

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1795
1795
wxl 1"931 - 2015 iema;eïn¾ ui 04 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'09'04
No. 1,931 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 04, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1798
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1801
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th September, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th
September,  2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1796
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1797
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1798
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th of October,
2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th of August, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Sri Jayawardhenapura Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
Kotte of Colombo Division in Kotte South General, District Secretariat,
Area Colombo 05.
09–01
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1799
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th of October,
2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th of August, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Attanagalla Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General) of Siyane Korale West General, District Secretariat,
Division in Oyabada Peruwa - Gampaha.
Koskandawala Area
09–02
––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT  AND
VOCATIONAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education & Training
REGISTRA TION OF EXTERNAL RESOURCE PERSONS AS
LECTURERS / INSTRUCTORS ACADEMIC YEAR 2016
Applications are invited for the registration of External Resource
Persons as Lecturers / Instructors in the Colleges of Technology /
Technical Colleges under this Department by the Directors / Principals
of Colleges of Technology / Technical Colleges, indicated in the
schedule given at the end of this notice.
02. Specimen Application and list of subjects for which External
Resource Persons are required, can be obtain from the Director /
Principal of the College of Technology / Technical College where you
wish to serve by sending him a self addressed stamped envelope
(9" x 4" ). The top left - hand corner of the envelope should be
marked "External Resource Persons". These particulars may also be
obtained from the Principals in person.
Details in this connection are published in the website
www.dtet.gov.lk
03. The last date for obtaining these particulars will be 30.10.2015
04. General Information for Applicant :
(i) Applicants should note to give all particulars regarding
their qualifications and experience in the Educational,
Professional and Technical fields.
(ii) Fees :
Fees payable to External Resource Persons vary from
Rs. 500/- to Rs. 1000/- per hour in accordance with
their experience, qualifications and level of the course
they are selected to serve.
(iii) Forwarding of Applications :
Applications from officers in the public service should
be forwarded through the Heads of their Departments/
Institutes with an endorsement by the respective Heads
to the effect that their selection of the applicant as an
External Resource Persons will not affects their normal
duties.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1800
(iv) Selections  :
Selections for these registrations will be May subsequent to interviews conducted by the Director / Principals of the
respective Colleges. Preference will be given to applicants with experience in teaching. Please note that the registration
can be terminated according to requirements of the College, by the Director / Principal, without giving any reasons and
at any time during the Academic Year.
(v) Registered External Resource Persons should conduct internal examinations in their respective subjects without additional
remuneration.
05. These registration are valid only for the Academic Year 2016 and may be terminated even earlier in accordance with the
requirements.
06. If an applicant wishes to apply for more than one subject, separate applications should be sent for each such subject. All
applications should be sent to Director / Principal of the appropriate College of Technology / Technical College under registered post to reach
him before the closing date specified by him.
J.A. R
ANJITH,
Director General,
  Department of Technical Education and Training.
P.O. Box. 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
www.dtet.gov.lk
L
IST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY / TECHNICAL COLLEGES
Serial Technical College/ College of Address District
No. Technology
01 Sri Lanka College of T echnology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03 Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna College of T echnology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla College of Technology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07 Kurunegala College of T echnology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08 Ampara Hardy College of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09 Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
15 Warakapola Technical College Aguruwella Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara-Eliya Nuwara-Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21 Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1801
23 Balapitiya Technical College S tation Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25 Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela Technical College W ewathenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30 Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M.C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technical College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical College Medagama (via Bibile) Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya V avuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College Main street Akkaraipattu Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalum
39 Mannar Technical College Panani, W edduvan Junction, Madu Road Mannar
09–04
Serial Technical College/ College of Address District
No. Technology
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
 MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURE
Department of Export Agriculture
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF FARM HOUSE
MANAGER, EXTENSION OFFICER AND
TECHNOLOGICAL OFFICER OF CLASS III OF SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF
EXPORT AGRICULTURE - 2015
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to
fill the following vacancies in the Department of Export Agriculture.
Position No. Position
01 Farm House Manager
02 Extension Officer
03 Technological Officer
02. Candidates should not be less than 18 years or more than 30
years of age. Accordingly, the age requirement will be fulfilled only if
the date of birth of a candidate falls between on or before 05.10.1997
and on or after 05.10.1985.
03. The monthly salary scale for this post according to Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006 (IV) A MN-3 is Rs. 15,005 -
4x180 -6x240 - -11x320-20x360- Rs. 27,885.
04.  This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute
to the WidowlWidower and Orphans' pension Scheme.
05.  It is essential that candidates should have fulfilled all the
basic Educational qualifications and professional qualifications
mentioned below, by the last date of closing applications.
Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed the G .C.E.
(O/L) examination in 06 subjects with credits for Sinhala/Tamil/
English, Science, Mathematics and any other subject at one sitting  ;
and
Should have passed the G .C.E. (A/L) examination in three subjects
of Science subject steam at one sitting, including two subjects from
Biology, Agriculture, Chemistry & Physics.
Professional Qualifications.– Should have obtained one of the
following Diploma Certificate related to Agricultural Sector.
(i) Two year Diploma in Agriculture, offered by an institution
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1802
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Agriculture offered by the
Ministry of Higher Education.
(iii) National Technical Diploma in Agriculture offered by
HARDY Industrial Institute, Ampara.
(iv) Diploma in Agriculture offered by National Apprentice
and Industrial Training Authority.
(v) Diploma in Agriculture offered by the Open University
of Sri Lanka.
(vi) Completion of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ)
level 6 relevant to the field of Agriculture.
(vii) Two year Diploma in Agriculture offered by the
Department of Agriculture.
(viii) Any other technical qualifications recognized by the
Tertiary and Vocational Education Commission as
equivalent to the above mentioned technical qualifications,
following the opinions obtained by consulting the
Ministry of higher Education and the institutes issuing
above mentioned technical certificates.
06. Mode of Application :
(a) Application forms should be prepared using both sides of
an A4 size (21cm x 29cm) sheet including section 01 to 07
in the first page and the remaining sections in the subsequent
pages with accordance to the specimen application form
appended to this Gazette notification. Applications should
be filled by the candidate himself in clear hand writing, in
the medium of language that the candidate is willing to sit
for the Exam.
(b) One candidate may choose to apply for one or more of the
above posts and it is not necessary to submit separate
application forms for each of the posts applied for. The
priority order of the posts applied for should be clearly
indicated in the application form.
(c) The name of the Examination mentioned in the heading of
the application form should be included in English language
as well, in applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil
mediums.
(d) Duly filled application forms should be forwarded under
registered cover to meet Commissioner General of
Examination, Organization and Foreign Examination
Branch, Department of Examinations - Sri Lanka, P.O.
Box 1503, Colombo on or before 05/10/2015. The post
applied for, should be clearly written on the upper left-
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application form.
(e) The applicable examination fee as per the number of posts
applied can be paid to any post office/sub post office
islandwide so as to be credited to the government revenue
under revenue head No. 2003-02-13 of Commissioner
General of Examinations and the original receipt obtained
in favour of the applicant should be affixed in the relevant
space by one border of it so as not to be detached from the
application form. Keeping a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate will be useful. Money orders or stamps
will not be entertained as the examination fee and it is not
refundable or transferrable under any circumstances. The
fees applicable under the number of posts applied are
given below in the following table.
Number of Posts Applied E xamination  Fee
Rs.
Farm House Manager and/or Extension 500
Officer
Technological officer 500
Farm  House Manager and/or Extension 750
Officer and Technological Officer
(f) Applications that are not in consistent with the specimen
application form included in this notification, or not
complete in every aspect and received late will be rejected
without prior notice and the Department will not be
responsible for loss of applications in the post or any
postal delays. Keeping a photocopy of the application
form would be useful.
(g) The signature of the applicant should be attested in both
the application form and the admission card. The signature
of a candidate sitting for the exam from within an institute
should be attested by the Head of the Institute or an Officer
authorized by the Head, and the signature of independent
candidates should be attested by a Principal of a government
school, Grama Niladhari of the division, Justice of Piece,
Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney at Law, Notary Public,
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces or a staff grade
permanent officer in State or Provincial State Service
obtaining an annual combined salary of Rs. 240,360 or
above.
(h) The candidates, who are already in State Service should
forward the application form through the Head of the
Department.
07. Mode of Examination :
(a) Admissions will be issued by the Commissioner General
of Examination to the candidates who are within the age
limit mentioned in the notification and have forwarded
duly filled application forms along with the receipts
obtained by paying the prescribed examination fee on or
before the last date of closing application forms. The
candidate should produce the attested admission to the
Supervisor in the prescribed examination hall. Any candidate
who fails to produce the admission card will not be allowed
to sit for the examination.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1803
(b) This examination will only be held in Colombo on
November 3rd 2015. Candidates who have not received
their admissions 05 days prior to the examination date
should immediately notify the Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch of the Department of Examinations,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla with the following information at
hand.
A notice shall be published in the newspapers by the
Department of Examinations as soon as admission cards
are issued to the applicants. If the admission card is not
received at least 5 before the date of examination indicated
in the newspaper notification, steps shall be taken to notify
the Department of Examination in the manner specified in
the advertisement. When informing, the full name of the
applicant, address, National Identity Card number and the
name of the examination applied for shall be indicated.
Further, it would be advisable to have the photocopy of
the application form and the receipt relevant to payment
of examination fee and the receipt of registration of the
application at hand while making the query. It would be
advisable for candidates outside of Colombo to fax a letter
of request including the above information along with a fax
number of the candidate to the Department of Examinations
to obtain a copy of the admission card through fax.
Keeping the following information with the candidate
would be useful :
(i) Name of the examination
(ii) Full name of the Candidate
(iii) Address
(iv) Number and date of registration of the application
form and the post office where it was registered at.
(v) Date of payment of examination fees, post office
where the payment was made at and the number of
the payment receipt.
(c) Transportation or any other expenses incurred by the
candidate in order to be present at the examination will not
be reimbursed.
(d) Identity: - A candidate shall be required to prove his identity
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor
of each subject he or she offers. For this purpose, any of
the following documents shall be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) A Valid passport.
A candidate who fails to produce documents to prove his
or her identity shall not be permitted to sit the examination.
(e) Syllabus :
One examination will be held for both the posts of Farm House Manager and Extension Officer.
Minimum marks Post Applicable
Subject Subject Time Total that shall be
No. (hrs) Marks obtained for a pass
01 Intelligence Test 1 100 40% For all the Posts
02 General Test I Farm House Officer,
(Technological and Subject affiliated Test) 3 100 40% Extension  Officer
03 General Test II 3 100 40% T echnological Officer
(Technological and Subject affiliated Test)
(i) Intelligence Test.– (Applies to all of the above posts)
The exam. consists of questions to determine the candidate's ability of logical reasoning, analytical thinking, and decision
making. This question paper shall consist of 50 multiple choice questions and questions for short answers. Candidates are
required to answer all questions.
(ii) General Test I (Technological and Subject affiliated Test). – (Applies to the posts of Farm House Manager and
Extension Officer)
 General Agriculture and Fundamentals
 Crop Production and Fundamentals- Agronomical Facts
 Soil and Fertilizers, Plant Nutrition, Environmental Effects
 Methods of Crop propagation
 Pests and diseases, symptoms and damages
 Agricultural Policies, past, present and future Viabilities.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1804
 Botanical facts, climatic aspects, fertilizer and nutrition, pests and diseases and post harvest technology regarding
Export Agricultural Crops including Pepper, Cinnamon, Coffee, Cocoa, Cardamom, Clove, Nutmeg etc.
 Marketing and export potentials of Export Agricultural crops.
 Organic Farming.
 Farmhouse Management, Production of Seedlings and planting material, Nursery Keeping and Organic Farming.
 Agriculture Extension Methods and Methodology
(iii) General Test II (Technological and Subject affiliated General Test)) :- (Applies to the post of Technological
officer)
 Agricultural Fundamentals
 Climate Zones of Sri Lanka and their effect in crop production.
 Soil types, Soil Conservation, Plant Nutrition and Water Conservation
 Identification, Categorization and Control of Pests.
 Plant Propagation, Nursery Keeping, Tissue Culture
 Agriculture and Environment
 Home gardens, Field Crop cultivation, Mixed crop cultivation and Agro-Foresting
 Definition of Export Agricultural Crops, Propagation, Field establishment, Maintenance, Pest and disease
control and Harvest processing
 Farm House management and Planning
 Contribution of governmental and private institutes towards the development of the Agriculture of Sri Lanka
 Identifying, utilizing and cleaning of laboratory equipments and safe handling and storage of Chemicals
(f) This examination will be held in Sinhala, English and Tamil Mediums and the candidates who sit for the exam should appear
for all the subjects of the examination in one medium only.
8. Conditions of Employment :
(i) Selected candidates are obligated to work in any area of the Country.
(ii) The recruited officers will be subject to a probationary service period of 03 years.
9. Mode of Recruitment.– The candidates who obtain 40% or more marks in each paper at the examination will be called for an
interview based on the order of merit. Number of candidates to be called for the interview will be equivalent to the existing vacancies. Marks
will not be given at the interview and the candidates who have' fulfilled the basic requirements will be recruited in the order of the total marks
obtained at the examination. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue a personal result sheet to each of the candidates who sat
for the exam, including the subject-wise marks and total marks obtained by each candidate, upon the request of the Director Gen eral of
Export Agriculture to issue the results for every candidate after all the recruitments have been completed.
10. Issuing of admissions to sit for the examination will not be considered as an acceptance that the candidate is qualified for the
post. The candidature will be cancelled if it will be revealed that the candidate lacks necessary qualifications when the candidates are called
for an interview to check the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification.
11.Any matter not mentioned here will be decided by the appointing authority. Every candidate is obliged to follow the
Examination rules and regulations mentioned in the Gazette notification.
12. The Commissioner General of Examinations will permit all the candidates who have paid the relevant examination fee and
forwarded the applications on or before the closing date to sit for the competitive examination on the presumption that only those who have
fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification have applied. The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves the right
to make decisions on conducting the examination and issuing results and his decision shall be deemed final.
13. This Gazette notification will be published in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums and in case of inconsistency in the phrases
among languages, the Sinhala medium notification shall be deemed correct.
N. K. A. RUPASINGHE,
Director of Export Agriculture.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1805
(For Office use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
Y%S ,xld ;dlaIK fiajfha wmkhk lDIsl¾u fomd¾;fïka;=fõ III fY%a‚fha jHdma;s ks,Odß f.dúm< l<ukdlre yd
;dlaIK ks,Odß ;k;=r i|yd n|jd .ekSfï újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2015
APPLICA TION FOR THE COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF EXTENSION OFFICER, FARM HOUSE MANAGER AND
TECHNOLOGICAL OFFICER OF CLASS III OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF EXPORT AGRICULTURE - 2015
01. Medium Applied : Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
02. Post/Posts applied for
The post/posts applied should be mentioned according to the order of priority. Even if you are applying for one post only it should be
indicated in the table below :
Priority Order Name and Number of the Post
01
02
03
03. Name :
3.1 Full Name (In capital English letters) :–––––––––––––.
(Ex. : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
3.2 Name with initials (Last name followed by initials) in capital English letters) :–––––––––––––.
(Ex. : GUNAWARDHANA H. M. S. K.)
3.3 Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
04. Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
(In capital English Letters)
4.1 Postal Address :–––––––––––––.
(In capital English Letters)
4.2 Telephone Number (if available) : Mobile :
Stable :
05. NIC No. :
06. Gender :  Female - 1 Male - 0 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
07. Marital Status :    Married  - 2 Unmarried - 1    (Write the relevant number in the cage)
08. 8.1 Date of Birth : Y ear     Month Date
8.2 Age as at the closing date of application : Y ears Months Days
09. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) :
Year and Month :–––––––––––––.
Index Number :–––––––––––––.
Language Medium :–––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1806
G . C. E. (A/L) :
Year and Month :–––––––––––––.
Index Number :–––––––––––––.
Language Medium :–––––––––––––.
Subject Pass
1.
2.
3.
4.
Professional Qualifications :
Name of the Diploma and the Institute Year Index Number
10. Number of the payment receipt of Examination Fees
Date
Post Office
Amount Paid
Affix the payment receipt here by one border.
(IT would be advisable to keep a copy of the receipt)
11. Certificate of the Applicant :
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this application is true and accurate. I am aware that if any information
furnished by me in this application is found to be false or inaccurate before I am selected. I am liable for disqualification before selection and
for dismissal without compensation if such revelation is made after the appointment.
Moreover, I accept to comply with the rules and regulations laid down by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regards
to conducting of this examination and issuing results.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
12. Attestation of the Signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms ........................... is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature, in my pre sence on
....................... and, the receipt obtained by paying the prescribed examination fee is pasted here.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(Affirm by Official Stamp)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1807
13. Certificate of the Head of the Institution (If the Applicant is a Government Employer) :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms ............................................ is employed at this Ministry/Department/Office and his/ her service is
satisfactory, and has paid the prescribed examination fees. I also certify that the particulars furnished above by him/her are true and if he/she
is selected for an appointment he/she can be released/cannot be released from present post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(Affirm by Official Stamp)
09–92
–––––––––––––––––––––
 MINISTRY  OF  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT  AND
VOCATIONAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES CONDUCTED
AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY / TECHNICAL
COLLEGES - 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses
conducted in Colleges of Technology/ Technical Colleges appearing
in this Gazette Notification. Students for admission will be selected
from among the applicants according to the qualifications and merit,
and the place available in each course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own
applications on a 13"x8" sheet of paper in accordance with the
"Specimen Application Form" given in this notification.. Duly
completed applications should be sent under Registered Cover to
reach the Director / Principal of the respective College of
Technology / Technical College to which admission is sought
to reach him on or before    30.10.2015. Applicants are advised
not to submit applications to this Department or to any officer's
official or personal addresses.
Also, all details in this connection are published in the website
www.dtet.gov.lk and your application for courses, too can be
submitted through this website.
03. The top left hand corner of the envelope should be marked
with the title of the course applied for, and its course code.
E.g.:- National Certificate in Engineering  Draughtsmanship
Course -   ETC05
04. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
05. Candidates are required to fill in their applications carefully
and correct with the Name and Code Number of the course, College
for which the course to be followed and the Medium of instruction
of the Course correctly.  Requests made subsequently to change the
College, course or Medium of instruction will not be considered
under any circumstances.
06. Fees will be charged in the following manner from all those
following Part Time and Evening Courses in the following manner.
(i). Part - time/ Evening Certificate Courses (more than one
Year) Rs. 2000/= per year;
 (ii). Part - time/ Evening one year or short term courses less
than one year Rs.  1500/= per course.
07. Attention of all candidates is invited to the Schedule of Courses
appended at the end of this notification, which indicates the nature
of courses, eligibility requirements for each course, the colleges at
which the courses are conducted and Medium of Instruction. The
addresses of Colleges of Technology / Technical Colleges where the
courses are available are shown in the List of Colleges of Technology
/ Technical Colleges.
08. A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in these
colleges should: -
(i) be of excellent moral character;
(ii) be a Citizen of Sri Lanka;
 (iii) Have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission
at the time of forwarding the application
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude
test and / or an interview.
10. Any documents or copies there of, should not be submitted
along with the application.  Those candidates who fail to produce
the necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at
the interview will be deemed disqualified.
11. Subject to a maximum of Rs. 1,000/= a month a stipend of
Rs. 50/= per day for attendance to classes will be paid to those who
follow any full time course depending on parental income.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1808
About 1800 Full Time Day Course students from low income families are paid a bursary of Rs.2, 500/= per year.
12. The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity of his/her documents.  Candidates who submit documents that
have been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely dealt with.
13. To conduct all courses or several courses in this Gazette notification for the academic year 2016 in Colleges of Technology /
Technical Colleges are subject to discretion of the Director General of Department of Technical Education & Training.
J. A. RANJITH,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P.O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
www.dtet.gov.lk
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES
ACADEMIC YEAR – 2016
For Official use only
(Applications must be directed to the Director/Principal of the relevant College of Technology/Technical
College. Addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges are given in the List of Colleges
of Technology/Technical Colleges)
01. Name of the College of Technology/Technical College :——––—.
02. Name of the Course applied with Code No. : 1. –––––––––––––
2. –––––––––––––
3. –––––––––––––
(Full Time Day/ Evening/Part Time)
(Mention three (03) courses as your preference)
Medium :——––—.
03. Applicant’s Name with Initials :——––—.
04. Names indicated by Initials :——––—.
05. Permanent Address :——––—.
06. Contact No. :——––—. E-mail :——––—.
07. National Identity Card No. :—––——.
08. District :—––——. Electorate :—––——.                Gramaniladari Division :—––——.
09. Date of Birth :  Year :——––—,  Month :—––——, Date :—––——.
Age as at 01.01.2016 : Years :—––——,  Months :—––——, Days :——––—.
10. Male/Female :———.
11. Educational Qualifications :
(A) G. C. E. (O/L) Results (Not more than two attempts)
Index No. Year Subjects Grade

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1809
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(B) G . C. E. (A/L) Results (In one attempt) :
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(C) Number of G . C. E. (A/L) sittings :—––——.
(D) Highest grade/year passed if the applicant has not obtained the qualifications mentioned in (A) above :-
 Grade :——––—,       Year :—––——.
12. Only for Evening and Part Time Courses :
To be filled only for courses for which employment is a requirement :
12.1 Applicant’s Name :——––—.
12.2 Post held present and the Date of Appointment to the Post :—––——.
If self employed, the type of employment :—––——.
12.3 Work place and its address :——––—.
12.4 Employee Provident Fund No. (EPF) :——––—.
Employee Trust Fund No. (ETF) :——––—.
I certify that the above applicant is an employee in this Institute/Office,
12.5 Name of the Employer :—––——.
12.6 Designation :—––——.
12.7 Signature  :—––——. Official Stamp :—––——.
12.8 Date :——––—.
13. Applicant’s Declaration :
I, hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge , and I have obtained the qualifications required
for the course applied for. Further I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleg es and to
accept the decision of the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :——––—.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1810
Schedule of Courses Conducted in Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges  –  2016
Engineering Technician Studies Courses :
Full Time Courses
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings with four Credit
passes including Science, Mathematics, Medium
Language and English Language.
with
Should have passed a related NVQ Level 3 / 4
course conducted at any of the Government
approved training institute.
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
3. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings with four Credit
passes including Science, Mathematics, Medium
Language and English Language.
with
Should have passed a related NVQ level 3 / 4
course conducted at any of the Government
approved training institute.
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
4. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
5. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings with four Credit
passes including Science, Mathematics, Medium
Language and English Language.
with
Should have passed a related NVQ Level 3 / 4
course conducted at any of the Government
approved training institute.
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
6. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
with four (04) Credits including Mathematics /
Science and medium language in not more than
two sittings.
(Preference will be given to those followed
G.C.E.
(A/L) in Mathematics stream/ Engineering
Technology stream)
English Medium
NVQ Level 5
Kandy, Rathmalana
English Medium
NVQ Level 5
Kandy, Rathmalana
English Medium
NVQ Level 5
Kandy
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Ampara,  Anamaduwa,
Anuradhapura, Badulla,
Balapitiya, Bandarawela,
Beliatta,  Dambulla,
01 ETC01 National Certificate for
Industrial Technicians
(Civil Engineering)
Full Time Day
Two Years
02 ETC02 National Certificate for
Industrial Technicians
(Electrical  Engineering)
Full Time Day
Two Years
03 ETC03 National Certificate for
Industrial Technicians
(Mechanical Engineering-
Production Technology)
Full Time Day
Two Years
04 ETC05 National Certificate in
Engineering
Draughtsmanship
Full Time Day
One Year

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1811
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Q ualification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years   as on
01.01.2016
1. Passes in Four (04) subjects at G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination in one sitting
or
Should have passed year 09 and experience in
the relevant field.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1.  Should have passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in
Six (6) subjects
2.   Age should be between 18 and 35 years as on
01.01.2016.
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings.
Six (6) subjects should be:-
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language
(b) Mathematics and Science
(c) Three other subjects; or equivalent
qualifications.
Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Homagama, Kalutara,
Kandy, Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,Maradana,
Matale, Matara,
Moneragala, Nuwara
Eliya, Pathadumbara
Polonnaruwa, Ratmalana,
Ratnapura, Trincomalee,
Warakapola, Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Akkaraipattu, Batticaloa,
Jaffna, Mannar,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,  Vavuniya
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Beliatta, Maradana
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Batticaloa
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Galle, Warakapola,
Matara, Kegalle
English Medium
NVQ Level 5
Ampara, Anuradhapura,
Badulla, Balapitiya,
Beliatta, Dambulla,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
05 ETC07 National Certificate in
Jewellery Manufacture
Full Time Day One Year
06 ECC40 Certificate in
Landscaping for Junior
Supervisors
Full Time Day
Six month
Part Time Courses
07 ETC01.1 National Certificate in
Technology (Civil
Engineering)
Part Time Three years
(Restricted to those
employed in the
relevant field.)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1812
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Q ualification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
Preference will be given to candidates who have
followed a technical training course in the relevant
field.
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016.
1.  G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in not
more  than two sittings.
      Six (06) subjects should be:-
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language
(b) Mathematics and Science
(c) Three other subjects ; or equivalent
qualifications.
Preference will be given to candidates who have
followed a technical training course in the relevant
field.
2.  Age should not be less than 17 years as   on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings.
      Six (06) subjects should  be:-
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language
(b) Mathematics and Science
(c) Three other subjects; or equivalent
qualifications.
Preference will be given to candidates who have
followed a technical training course in the relevant
field.
2.  Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016.
1.   G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings.
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Homagama, Kalutara,
Kandy, Kegalle,
Kurunegala,
Maradana,Matale Matara,
Moneragala, Nuwera-
Eliya, Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana, Ratnapura,
Warakapola, Weerawila,
Trincomalee, Anamaduwa,
Bandarawela,
Kuliyapitiya, Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai, Vavuniya,
Jaffna, Akkaraipattu,
Mannar
English Medium
NVQ Level 5
 Anuradhapura, Badulla,
Balapitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Homagama,
Kalutara, Kandy, Kegalle,
Kurunegala, Maradana,
Matara, Ratmalana,
Ratnapura, Trincomalee,
Batticaloa, Sammanthurai,
Jaffna, Vavuniya,
Embilipitiya, Matale,
Hasalaka
English Medium
NVQ Level 5
Ratmalana, Kegalle,
Maradana, Sammanthurai,
Anuradhapura
English Medium
NVQ Level 5
Kurunegala,
Matara,Jaffna,  Badulla,
(English foundation
programme will be
conducting on beginning
of the course )
05 ETC 02.1 National Certificate in
Technology (Electrical
Engineering)
Part Time Three Years
(Restricted to those
employed in the
relevant field.)
(English foundation
programme will be
conducting on beginning
of the course )
06 ETC03.1 National Certificate in
Technology (Mechanical
Engineering - Production
Technology)
Part Time Three Years
Restricted to those
employed in the
relevant field.)
(English foundation
programme will be
conducting on beginning
of the course)
08 ETC03.1 National Certificate in
Technology (Mechanical
Engineering - Auto
Mobile Technology)

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1813
 Six (06) subjects should  be:-
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language
(b) Mathematics and Science
(c) Three other subjects; or equivalent
qualifications.
Preference will be given to candidates who have
followed a technical training course in the relevant
field.
2.  Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016
1.   G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings.
 Six (06) subjects should  be:-
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language
(b) Mathematics and Science
(c) Three other subjects; or equivalent
qualifications.
Preference will be given to candidates who have
followed a technical training course in the relevant
field.
2.  Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings.
Six (06) subjects should  be:-
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language
(b) Mathematics and Science
(c) Three other subjects; or equivalent
qualifications.
Preference will be given to candidates who have
followed a technical training course in the relevant
field.
2.  Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in
not more than two sittings.
Maradana, Kegalle
Sammanthurai
English Medium
NVQ Level 5
Kandy,  Kalutara,
Sammanthurai,
English Medium
NVQ Level 5
Anuradhapura, Badulla,
Beliatta, Galle, Gampaha,
Homagama, Kalutara,
Kandy, Kegalle,
Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala, Ratmalana,
Ratnapura, Trincomalee,
Warakapola, Weerawila,
Matale, Embilipitiya,
Balapitiya,
Jaffna,Mannar,
Sammanthurai, Vavuniya,
Akkaraipattu
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Anuradhapura, Galle
Kandy, Kurunegala
Part Time - Three Years
(Restricted to those
employed in the
relevant field.)
(English foundation
programme will be
conducting on beginning
of the course )
09 ETC03.1 National Certificate in
Technology (Mechanical
Engineering - Ref & Air
Conditions Technology)
Part Time - Three Years
(Restricted to those
employed in the
relevant field.)
(English foundation
programme will be
conducting on beginning
of the course)
10 ETC04.1 National Certificate in
Technology (Quantity
Surveying)
Part Time - Three Years
(Restricted to those
employed in the
relevant field.)
(English foundation
programme will be
conducting on beginning
of the course )
Engineering Craft studies Courses
01 ECC08 National Certificate in
Engineering Craft
Practice (Electronics)
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qua lification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
Full Time Courses

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1814
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016.
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics & Medium Language in
not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016.
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics & Medium Language in
not more than two sittings ;
or
Have passed the house wiring course conducted
in any V ocational Training Centers attached to
VTA
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
Warakapola, Gampaha,
Ratmalana, Nuwara Eliya,
Beliatta, Bandarawela,
Kegalle,
NVQ Level 3
 Badulla, , Kalutara, ,
Maradana, Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura, Embilipitiya,
Trincomalee, Monaragala,
Ampara, Hasalaka,
Matara
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Jaffna , Batticaloa,
V avuniya,
NVQ Level 3
Akkaraipattu, Maradana
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Badulla, Galle,
Kurunegala, Kegalle,
NVQ Level 3
Beliatta,  Polonnaruwa,
Matara, Hasalaka,
Anuradhapura
Tamil Medium
 NVQ Level 3
Sammanthurai
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Monaragala, Matale,
Galle, Warakapola,
Gampaha, Homagama,
Ratmalana, Nuwara Eliya
Kurunegala, Weerawila,
Beliatta, Badulla,
Bandarawela, Dambulla,
Kandy,
NVQ Level 3
Ampara, Anuradhapura,
Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day
Two Years
02 ECC10 National Certificate in
Engineering Craft
Practice - (Fitter
Machinist)
Full Time Day
Two Years
03 ECC13 National Certificate in
Engineering Craft
Practice -  (Industrial
Electrician)
Full Time Day
Two Years
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Q ualification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1815
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics & Medium Language in
not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have completed Year 10 ;
                      or
Have passed the Welder course conducted in any
of the V ocational Training Centers attached to VTA
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016.
Kuliyapitiya, Maradana,
Polonnaruwa,
Trincomalee,
Pathadumbara,  Kalutara,
Balapitiya, Matara,
Kegalle, Hasalaka
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Jaffna, Sammanthurai,
Batticaloa,
NVQ Level 3
V avuniya,
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Ampara,Galle,
Kandy,Kurunegala,
Ratnapura, Gampaha,
Kegalle, Anuradhapura,
Matale,
Badulla,Warakapola,
Dambulla, Kuliyapitiya,
NVQ Level 3
Embilipitiya, Hasalaka,
Bandarawela, Beliatta, ,
Homagama, Kalutara,
Maradana, Polonnaruwa,
Matara, Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya, Ratmalana,
Trincomalee,
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Jaffna, Sammanthurai,
NVQ Level 3
Vavuniya ,Batticaloa
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Balapitiya, Kandy, Galle,
Gampaha, Kalutara,
Kuliyapitiya, Wariyapola,
04 ECC18 National Certificate in
Engineering Craft
Practice -  (Motor
Vehicle Mechanic)
Full Time Day
Two Years
05 ECC02 National Certificate in
Engineering Craft
Practice -  (Gas & Arc
Welder)
Full Time Day
One Year

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1816
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Q ualification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. Should have completed Year 10 ;
or
Have passed the Plumbing course conducted in
any of the V ocational Training Centers attached
to VTA
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016.
06 ECC09 National Certificate in
Engineering Craft
Practice -  (Plumber)
Full Time Day
One Year
NVQ Level 3
Anamaduwa,
Anuradhapura, Badulla,
Beliatta,  Dambulla,
Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Hasalaka,
Homagama,  Kegalle,
Kurunegala,  Maradana,
Matara,  Moneragala,
Polonnaruwa ,
Trincomalee, Warakapola,
Weerawila,  Ratnapura,
NuwaraEliya,
Bandarawela
NVQ Level 2
Ampara,  Pathadumbara,
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
 Batticaloa, Vavuniya,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Anuradhapura, Badulla,
Nuwara Eliya, Ratnapura,
NVQ Level 3
Ampara,
Dehiattakandiya,
Homagama, Embilipitiya,
Polonnaruwa,
Monaragala,  Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle, Galle,
Kuliyapitiya , Dambulla,
Hasalaka,  Maradana,
Kalutara, Bandarawela
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Batticaloa, Trincomalee,
Jaffna, Sammanthurai,
V avuniya,

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1817
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qua lification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Science & Medium
Language in not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have completed Year 09 ;
or
Have passed the Carpenter course conducted in
any of the V ocational Training Centers attached
to VTA
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016.
07 ECC 05 National Certificate in
Engineering Craft
Practice -  (Refrigeration
& Air Conditioning
Mechanic)
Full Time Day
One Year
08 ECC 06 National Certificate in
Engineering Craft
Practice -  (Wood
Machinist)
Full Time Day
One Year
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Beliatta, Kandy,
Ratnapura, Kegalle,
Gampaha,
NVQ Level 3
Anuradhapura,
Bandarawela,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
Homagama, Kalutara,
Matara, Polonnaruwa,
Maradana, Hasalaka,
Kuliyapitiya, Ratmalana,
Matale
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee, Mannar
Vavuniya Batticaloa
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Dambulla, Polonnaruwa,
Badulla, Nuwara Eliya,
Bandarawela, Ratnapura,
NVQ Level 3
Anuradhapura,
Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Homagama,
Wariyapola, Anamaduwa,
Galle, Matara, Beliatta,
Kegalle, Monaragala,
Hasalaka, Balapitiya,
Kuliyapitiya, Maradana,
Kalutara, Ampara
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Batticaloa, Sammanthurai,
NVQ Level 3
Akkareipattu

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1818
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Q ualification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. Should have completed Year 09
or
Have passed the Masonry course conducted in
any of the V ocational Training Centers attached
to VTA
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have passed Year 09
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects in
not more than Two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016.
09 ECC 14 National Certificate in
Engineering Craft
Practice -  (Construction
Craftsman)
Full Time Day
One Year
10 ECS 21 Certificate in Aluminum
Fabrication
Full Time Day
Six Months
11 ECC 22 Certificate in Electrical
Trade
Full Time Day
One Year
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Anuradhapura, Badulla,
NVQ Level 3
Embilipitiya, Wariyapola,
Polonnaruwa, Kegalle,
Galle, Matara, Beliatta,
Monaragala, Maradana,
Balapitiya,
Hasalaka,Bandarawela,
Dehiattakandiya
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Sammanthurai,
NVQ Level 3
 Vavuniya, Batticaloa
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Kurunegala, Warakapola,
Homagama, Matale,
Ratmalana, Balapitiya,
Gampaha, Kandy,
Beliatta, Matara,
Monaragala, Trincomalee,
Kegalle, Polonnaruwa,
Anuradhapura
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Batticaloa, Mannar,
Trincomalee, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Weerawila
NVQ Level 3
Anamaduwa,
Dehiattakandiya,
Ratnapura, Wariyapola,
Trincomalee,
Polonnaruwa, Matale,
Nuwra-Eliya, Balapitiya,
Badulla, Hasalaka

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1819
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qua lification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. Should have passed Year 09
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have passed Year 09
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016.
1. Should have passed Year 10
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
12 ECS26 Certificate in Motor
Cycle & Scooter
Repairing
Full Time Day
One Year
13 MCC08 Cer tificate in Foot Wear
Making
Full Time Day
One year
14 ECC21 Cert ificate in House
Hold Electrical
Appliances Repairing
Full Time Day
Six Months
Tamil Medium
 NVQ Level 4
Sammanthurai,
NVQ Level 3
Jaffna, Vavuniya
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Dehiattakandiya, Matale,
Pathadumbara,
Anuradhapura, Beliatta,
Kegalle, , Trincomale,
Weerawila, Galle, Matara,
Ampara, Dambulla,
Embilipitiya, Nuwara
eliya, Polonnaruwa,
Ampara
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Vavuniya, Trincomalee,
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
 Embilipitiya, Medagama
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Pathadumbara,
Trincomalee,
Dehiattakandiya,
Hasalaka, Anuradhapura,
Wariyapola, Polonnaruwa
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Vavuniya, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai, Nuwara
Eliya

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1820
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Q ualification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. Should have passed Year 10
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016.
1. Should have passed Year 10
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have passed Year 10
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have passed Year 10
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium
Language & English in not more than two sittings.
Should have a Credit pass in Science.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
15 ECC26 Certificate in Machining
Full Time Day
One Year
16 ECC20 Certificate in
Automobile Painting
Full Time Day
Six Months
17 ECC17 Certificate in
Automobile Tinkering
Full Time Day
Six Months
18 ECC34 Agriculture Equipment
Mechanic
Full Time Day
One Year
19 ECC16 Certificate in Fruits &
Vegetable Processor
Full Time Day
Six Months
Sinhala Medium
 NVQ Level 4
Gampaha, Ratmalana,
Kegalle, Dambulla, Galle,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Kuliyapitiya
NVQ Level 3
Bandarawela,
Embilipitiya, Homagama,
Kandy, Kalutara,
Maradana, Warakapola,
Matara, Ampara,
Polonnaruwa, Beliatta,
Dehiattakandiya,
Hasalaka,
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Batticaloa, Jaffna
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Kurunegala,
Dehiattakandiya
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Kurunegala
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Anuradhapura,
Dehiattakandiya,
Hasalaka
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Kandy, Kurunegala,
Embilipitiya
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Vavuniya

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1821
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qua lification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. Should have passed Year 10
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have passed Year 10
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have passed Year 09
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have passed Year 09
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
20 ECS27 Automobile Electrician
Full Time Day
Six Months
21 ECS28 Automobile Air
Condition Mechanic
Full Time Day
Six Months
22 ECS07 W ood Craftsman
(Building)
Full Time Day
Six months
23 ECC41 W ood Craftsman
(Furniture)
Full Time Day
One Year
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
 Bandarawela,
Dehiaththakandiya,
Hasalaka, Kurunegala,
Homagama
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Kalutara, Embilipitiya,
Trincomalee,
Kuliyapitiya, Homagama
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Mannar, Sammanthura
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Balapitiya, Weerawila,
Embilipitiya, Hasalaka,
Maradana, Homagama,
Kalutara, Matara,
Beliaatta, Badulla,
Monaragala, Ampara,
Dambulla, Anuradhapura,
Kuliyapitiya,
Polonnaruwa, Wariyapola
, Galle, Kegalle,
Dehiattakandiya,Anamaduwa,
Rathnapura,
Nuwaraeliya,
Bandarawela,
Tamil  Medium
NVQ Level 3
Sammanthurai, Batticaloa,
Akkaraipattu
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
 Balapitiya, Hasalaka,
Weerawila, Embilipitiya,

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1822
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Q ualification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Medium Language - in not more than
two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics & Medium Language - in
not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Science & Medium
Language - in not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Science & Medium
Language - in not more than two sittings.
 2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
24 ECS39 Field Assistant
(Agriculture)
Full Time Day
Six Months
25 ECS41 Survey Field Assistant
Full Time Day
Three Months
26 ECC43 Industrial Electronic
Craftsman
Full Time Day
One Year
27 ECS40 Plant Nursery
Development Assistant
Full Time Day
Six Months
28 ECS22 Assistant Quantity
Survey
Full Time Day
Six Months
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Embilipitiya, Kandy,
Anuradhapura, Dambulla,
Kuliyapitiya, Monaragala
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Sammanthurai
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Anuradhapura,
Wariyapola
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Polonnaruwa
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Anuradhapura,
Embilipitiya, Dambulla.,
Kuliyapitiya
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Ratmalana, Gampaha,
Galle, Matara, Weerawila,
Ratnapura, Matale,
Anuradhapura, Ampara,
Badulla, Bandarawela,
Dambulla, Wariyapola,
Anamaduwa, Kalutara,
Balapitiya, kuliyapitiya,
Beliatta, Kurunagala,
Hasalaka Monaragala,
Embilipitiya,
Nuwaraeliya,
Polonnaruwa, Homagama,

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1823
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qua lification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. Should have passed Year 09
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have passed Year 9
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1  Should have passed Year 9
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
29 ECS24 Bar Bender
Full Time Day
Three Months
30 ECS30 Three Wheeler
Mechanic
Full Time Day
Six Months
31 ECS32 Masonry Craftsman
Full Time Day
Six month
Kandy, Maradana,
Kegalle, Trincomalle,
Warakapola.
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanturei, Batticaloa,
Jaffna, Mannar,
Vavuniya.
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 2
Galle
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Dehiaththakandiya,
Pathadumbara, Matara,
Bandarawela,
Embilipitiya, Matale,
Polonnaruwa
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Balapitiya, Anamaduwa,
Wariyapola, Bandarawela,
Kegalle, Matara, Galle,
Kurunegala, Homagama,
Anuradhapuara,
Polonnaruwa,
Trincomalee, Ampara,
Maradana, Monaragala,
Gmpaha, Kuliyapitiya,
Dehiattakandiya,
Rathmalana,
Weerawila,Rathnapura,
Badulla,
Warakapola,Kandy,
Beliatta, Kalutara.
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Batticaloa,
Sammanathurai , Jaffna,
Vavuniya

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1824
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Q ualification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. Should have passed Year 10
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics & Medium Language - in
not more than two sittings.
or
Should have passed Certificate in Machining
Course ( NVQ Level 3 / 4 )
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. Should have passed Year 10
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics and English
And
G .C.E.(A/L) Examination in Two (2) Subjects with
passes  in one (1) of
I. Accounting
II. Combined Maths
III. Business Studies
IV . Economics
V . Business Statistics
Or
Should have passed the National Certificate for
Accounting Technician course conducted at
Colleges of  Technology/ Technical Colleges under
the Department of Technical Education & Training
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
32 ECC45 Industrial Plumber
Full Time Day
One Year
(NVQ)
33 ECC46 Machinist (CNC
Milling Machine
Operator)
Full Time Day
Six Months
34 ECC47 Multi Skilled Craftsman
-Construction
Full Time -Day
One Year
(Woodwork, plumbing,
Masonry and Electrical
fields will be covered by
this course )
01 BSB 03 National Diploma in
Accounting
Full Time Day
Two Years
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Maradana, Beliatta,
Polonnaruwa
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Maradana
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
 Balapitiya, Anamaduwa,
Wariyapola, Warakapola,
Kegalle, Kandy, Matara,
Rathnapura, Beliatta,
Kurunegala, Embilipitiya
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Jaffna , Sammanthurai
English Medium
Maradana, Galle, Kandy,
Ampara, Ratnapura,
Anuradhapura, Jaffna
Business Studies Courses
Full Time Courses

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1825
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qua lification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in
one sitting.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1.  G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in
not more than two sittings.  Should have a Credit
pass in English.
(i) Competency in spoken & written English
will be considered.
(ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test
if so decided by the authorities.
(iii) Female candidates are preferred.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in
not more than two sittings.
     Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016.
02 BSC 04 National Certificate for
Accounting Technicians
Full Time Day
One Year
03 BSC06 National Certificate in
Secretarial Practice
Full Time Day
One Year
Students who
successfully complete
this course are eligible to
follow the National
Diploma in Secretarial
Practice Course,
conducted by the Sri
Lanka Institute of
Advanced Technical
Education
04 BSC 13 National Certificate in
Shorthand, Typewriting
and Computing -Sinhala
Full Time Day
One Year
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Anuradhapura,
Balapitiya, Beliatta,
Dambulla, Galle,
Hasalaka, Homagama,
Kalutara, Kandy, Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya, Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matale,
Matara, Nuwara-Eliya,
Polonnaruwa, Ratnapura,
Wariyapola, Embilipitiya,
Warakapola, Gampaha,
Trincomalee, Badulla,
Ratmalana.
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee, Vavuniya,
Maradana, Akkaraipattu,
Mannar.
English Medium
NVQ Level 4
Badulla, Balapitiya,
Batticaloa, Kandy,
Kuliyapitiya, Kurunegala,
Maradana, Warakapola,
Jaffna, Homagama,
Gampaha, Galle, Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle, Matale,
Anuradhapura.
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Ampara, Anuradhapura,
Beliatta, Dambulla,
Dehiattakandiya, Galle,
Kalutara, Kandy,
Kuliyapitiya, Maradana,
Medagama, Moneragala,
Pathadumbara,
Trincomalee, Kegalle,
Warakapola.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1826
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qualif ication Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1 G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in
not more than two sittings.
     Should have a Credit Pass for Tamil Language.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016.
1.  G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings with passes in
Mathematics, Medium Language and English
Language.
2.  Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Medium Language &
English Language - in not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
passes in Mathematics & Medium Language - in
not more than two sittings.
  2.Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings with a pass for
Mathematics and Medium Language.
 2. Age should not be less than 18 years as on
01.01.2016
05 BSC 14 National Certificate in
Shorthand, Typewriting
and Computing - Tamil
Full Time Day
One Year
06 BSC05 National Certificate in
Marketing
Full Time Day
One Year
07 MCS16 Sales Representative /
Assistant
Full Time Day
Three  Months
08 MCS18 Store Keeper
Full Time Day
Six Months
09 BSC 04.1 National Certificate for
Accounting Technicians
Part Time Two Years
(Restricted to
employees in an office
of, Government, Semi
Government Department
or any other Recognized
Institute).
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Batticaloa, Maradana,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee, Vavuniya,
Jaffna, Akkaraipattu,
Mannar.
English Medium
Batticaloa, Galle, Kandy,
Matara,  Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Akkaraipattu, Beliatta,
Vavuniya, Kegalle, Jaffna
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Anuradhapura,Kandy,
Kurunegala
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Jaffna
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Anuradhapura,Kandy
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Moneragala, Kalutara,
Hasalaka, Anuradhapura,
Kegalle, Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Trincomalee, Vavuniya,
Jaffna, Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai
Part Time Courses

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1827
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qua lification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in
not more than two sittings.
Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala
2. Age should be less than 17 years as on 01.01.2016.
1.  G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in
not more than two sittings.
     Should have a Credit Pass for Tamil Language.
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects
including English in not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
10 BSC 13.1 National Certificate in
Shorthand, Typewriting
and Computing -
(Sinhala)
Part Time One Year
(Restricted to those
who are engaged in
Stenography/Typing or
in an allied field)
11 BSC 14.1 National Certificate in
Shorthand, Typewriting
and Computing -
(Tamil)
Part Time One Year
(Restricted to those
who are engaged in
Stenography/Typing or
in an allied field)
01 ESC 01 National Certificate in
English for Commerce,
Industry and Further
Education
Full Time Day
One Year
Students who
successfully complete
this course are eligible to
follow the National
Diploma in English
Course, conducted by
the Sri Lanka Institute
of Advanced Technical
Education
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
 Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 3
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee ,Vavuniya
English Medium
Ampara, Anamaduwa,
Anuradhapura, Badulla,
Balapitiya, Bandarawela,
Batticaloa, Beliatta,
Dambulla,
Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Homagama, Kalutara,
Kandy, Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya, Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matale,
Matara, Medagama,
Moneragala, Nuwara
Eliya, Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa, Ratnapura,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee, Vavuniya,
Warakapola, Wariyapola,
Weerawila, Mannar,
Jaffna, Akkaraipattu
General Studies Courses
Full Time Courses

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1828
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qualif ication Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1.    G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Science and Medium
Language in not more than two sittings.
2. Should have completed basic Computer Science
Course.
3. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Science Medium Language
and English Language in not more than two
sittings.
2. Should have completed basic Computer Science
Course
3. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
02 MCC 09 National Certificate in
Japanese Language
Full Time Day
One Year
03 MCC 07 National Certificate in
Korean Language
Full Time Day
One Year
04 ECC 03 Certificate in Computer
Hardware
Full Time Day
Six  Months
05 ECC 04 Certificate in Computer
Networking
Full Time - Day
Six Months
Japanese Medium
Galle, Beliatta
Korean Medium
Galle, Kegalle, Beliatta,
Warakapola,Badulla,,
Matara, Ampara,
Anuradhapura,
Kandy, Kurunegala
Sammanthurai,
Bandarawela, Maradana,
Embilipitiya, Batticaloa
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
 Galle, Kuliyapitiya,
Balapitiya, Kegalle,
Kandy, Kurunegala,
Matara, Dambulla,
Anuradhapura, Matale,
Trincomalee, Kaluthara,
Embilipitiya, Wariyapola
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Trincomalee,  Kurunegala,
Sammanthurai
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Galle, Kandy, Maradana,
Polonnaruwa, Kegalle,
Embilipitiya, Kurunegala,
Balapitiya, Bandarawela,
Matale, Hasalaka
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Jaffna , Vavuniya,
Sammanturai

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1829
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qua lification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Science Medium Language
and English Language in not more than two
sittings.
2. Should have completed basic Computer Science
Course
3. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and
English Language in not more than two sittings.
2.  Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016.
1.  G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects in
not more than two sittings.
(Special consideration will be given to those
employed in a supervisory capacity in an
Industrial, Commercial or any similar
establishment or those who were employed in a
similar capacity at an earlier date and those who
may qualify for promotion after successful
completion of the Course)
     A basic knowledge of English is essential.
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016.
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Science, and Medium
Language in not more than two sittings.
2. Should have completed basic Computer Science
Course.
3. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium
Language and English Language in not more than
two sittings.
2. Should have completed basic Computer Science
Course.
3. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016
06 ECC 31 Certificate in Computer
Graphic Designing
Full Time Day
Six  Months
07 ECC 23.1 Certificate for
Computer Application
Assistant
Part Time
360 hours
08 ESC 01.1 National Certificate in
English for Commerce,
Industry and Further
Education.
Part Time - Two Years
09 ECC 03.1 Certificate in Computer
Hardware
Part Time
720 hours
(Restricted to those
employed in the
relevant field.)
10 ECC 04.1 Certificate in Computer
Networking
Part Time
720 hours
(Restricted to those
employed in the
relevant field.)
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Kurunegala, Wariyapola,
Hasalaka, Anamaduwa,
Pathadumbara, Kalutara
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 3
Matale, Balapitiya,
Rathnapura
English Medium
Ampara, Badulla,
Batticaloa, Beliatta, Galle,
Kalutara, Kandy,  Matale,
Moneragala, Matara,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee, Vavuniya,
Jaffna, Akkaraipattu,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Pathadumbara,
Anuradhapura
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Galle, Balapitiya
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Sammanthurai
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Galle, Balapitiya,
Pathadumbara, Matale
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Sammanthurai
Part Time Courses

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1830
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Quali fication Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
passes in Mathematics and Medium Language and
English Language in not more than two sittings.
Should have a Credit pass in English.
  (i) Competency in spoken & written English
will be considered.
(ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test if
so decided by the authorities.
(iii) Female candidates are preferred.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and
English Language in not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
01 BSC 16 Receptionist
Full Time Day
One Year
02 ECC 12 Information
Communication
Technology Technician
Full Time Day
Six Months
English Medium
NVQ Level 3
Galle, Jaffna
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Kegalle, Warakapola,
Badulla, Bandarawela,
Moneragala, Kandy,
Pathadumbara, Matale,
Hasalaka, Beliatta,
Ratnapura, Kurunegala,
Nuwara Eliya, Matara,
Maradana, Kalutara,
Galle, Kuliyapitiya,
Anuradhapura,
Trincomalee,Medagama,
Embilipitiya, Ratmalana,
Balapitiya, Weerawila,
Wariyapola, Dambulla
Ampara, Gampaha,
Dehiatthakandiya,
Polonnaruwa
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Vavuniya, Mannar,
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
English Medium
NVQ Level 4
Batticaloa
Special Courses
Full Time Courses

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1831
Serial Code Name of Course Admission Qua lification Medium/NVQ Level and
No. No. Colleges where the Courses
are Available
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Galle, Maradana,
Ratmalana, Homagama,
Kalutara,  Matara,
Beliatta, Ratnapura,
Embilipitiya, Warakapola,
Monaragala, Kandy,
Anuradhapura,
Kurunegala, Kuliyapitiya,
Dehiattakandiya,
Wariyapola,
Anamaduwa,Matale,Gampaha,
Badulla, Balapitiya,
Weerawila,
Dambulla,Ampara,
Bandarawela, Hasalaka,
Kegalle, Nuwaraeliya,
Polonnaruwa.
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Vavuniya, Mannar,
Akkaraipattu,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
Sinhala Medium
NVQ Level 4
Galle, Kegalle,
Warakapola, Kalutara,
Matara, Maradana,
Matale, Hasalaka,
Ratnapura, Weerawila,
Beliatta, Balapitiya,
Ampara, Trincomalee,
Embilipitiya, Badulla
Tamil Medium
NVQ Level 4
Vavuniya, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Akkaraipaththu
1.  G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects
with passes in Mathematics, Science and
Medium Language in not more than two sittings.
2. Age should be between 17 and 29 years as on
01.01.2016
1. G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and
English Language in not more than two sittings.
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2016
03 ECC 01 Construction Site
Supervisor
Full Time Day
One Year
04 ECC12.1 Information
Communication
Technology Technician
Part Time
720 hours
(Restricted to those
employed in the relevant
field.)
Part Time Courses

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1832
LIST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY / TECHNICAL COLLEGES
Serial Technical College/ College of Address District
No. Technology
01 Sri Lanka College of T echnology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03 Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna College of T echnology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla College of Technology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07 Kurunegala College of T echnology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08 Ampara Hardy College  of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09 Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
15 Warakapola Technical College Anguruwella Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara-Eliya Nuwara-Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hamban tota
21 Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23 Balapitiya Technical College S tation Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25 Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela Technical College W ewathenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30 Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M.C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technical College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical Coll ege Medagama (via Bibile) Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College V idyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya V avuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College Main street Akkarapattu Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalum
39 Mannar Technical College Pannai W edduvan Junction, Madu Road Mannar
09-03

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1833
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2015
1834
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2015
SEPTEMBER 04.09.2015 Friday — 21.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
11.09.2015 Friday –– 28.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
18.09.2015 Friday –– 04.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
25.09.2015 Friday –– 11.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
OCTOBER 02.10.2015 Friday — 18.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
09.10.2015 Friday –– 25.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
16.10.2015 Friday –– 02.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
23.10.2015 Friday –– 09.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
30.10.2015 Friday –– 16.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 06.11.2015 Friday — 23.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
13.11.2015 Friday –– 30.10.2015 Friday 12 noon
20.11.2015 Friday –– 06.11.2015 Friday 12 noon
27.11.2015 Friday –– 13.11.2015 Friday 12 noon
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.