

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'06'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.06.2017
w;s úfYI
wxl 2021$33 - 2017 cQks ui 01 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'06'01
No. 2021/33 -  THURSDAY  JUNE  01,  2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
NORTHERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Transfer of Court fines and Penalties Statute No. 01 of 2017  of the Northern Province, Provincial Council
A Statute to provide for the transfer of Fines and Penalties imposed by Courts and collected under the Finance Statute of the
Northern Province Provincial Council No. 01 of 2014 to the Local Authorities in the Northern Province.
Be enacted by the Northern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A PG  3545 — 27  (06/2017)
Short title1. This Statute may be cited as the Transfer of Court Fines and Penalties Statute of the
Northern Province Provincial Council No. 01 of 2017 and shall come into operation on
such date as the Governor of the Northern Province may give his assent thereto.
2. Where the Provincial Council has collected, in terms of the Finance Statute of the
Northern Province Provincial Council No. 01 of 2014, the fines and penalties imposed
by Courts situated in the Northern Province, the Provincial Council shall transfer the
amount of such fines and penalties to the relevant Local Authority on a claim, in writing,
by the Chief Administrative Officer of such Local Authority to the Minister in charge of
the subject of Finance of the Province, made within a period of five years from the thirty-
first day of December of the year in which such fines and penalties were collected as
aforesaid. Provided that the transfer shall be made within a period of six months from the
date of claim.
3. No claim under Section 2 shall be valid unless accompanied with a schedule of payment
of such fines and penalties specified in the claim specifying the date of such payments,
the date of remittance of such amount by the relevant court to the Provincial Council and
the Ordinance or the Act under  which such fines and penalties have been imposed with
particular reference to the schedule thereof and certified by the Registrar of the Court
which imposed and charged such fines and penalties or any other officer nominated by
him on that behalf.
Transfer of Court
Fines and
penalties
Certificate of the
Registrar of the
Court

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'06'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.06.2017
2A
4. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires, “Chief Administrative Officer”
means
(a) In relation to a Municipal Council, the Municipal Commissioner ; and
(b) In relation to an Urban Council or a Pradeshiya Sabha, the Secretary thereof ;
“Local Authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and
includes any authority created and established  by or under any law to exercise, perform
and discharge power, duties and function corresponding to or similar to the powers, duties
and functions exercised, performed and/or discharged by any such Council or Sabha ;
“Province” means the Northern Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka ;
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the Northern Province of the
Democratic Socialist of Sri Lanka
5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil, Sinhala and  English texts of this
Statute, the Tamil text shall prevail
Tamil text to
prevail in the case
of in consistency
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
Interpretation
06-519