

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'16
PART  I :  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 16.01.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2106$11 - 2019 ckjdß ui 16 jeks nodod - 2019'01'16
No. 2106/11 -  WEDNESDAY   JANUARY  16,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
P.S. No. : PS/CSA/00/1/14/6
 BY   HIS  EXCELLENCY  MAITHRIPALA   SIRISENA   PRESIDENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI   LANKA
                                                                                                            MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
 Seal
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A- G  28937 — 397  (01/2019)
To :
1. Honourable Abeyratne Herath Mudiyanselage Upaly Abeyrathne Esquire
Retired Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Honourable (Ms.) Sarojini Kusala Weerawardane
Retired Judge of the High Court
3. Pasdunkorale Arachchige Pemathilaka Esquire
Retired Auditor General
4. Lalith R. de Silva Esquire
Retired Secretary to a Ministry
5. M. K. D. Wijaya Amarasinghe Esquire
Retired Deputy Inspector - General
Greetings :
WHEREAS, a large number of serious complaints and allegations had been made against persons who had held or continue
to hold political office and those who have been or continue to be public servants and officers of statutory bodies,
regarding acts of corruption, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminal misappropriation of property, cheating and abuse or
misuse of power or authority, State resources and privileges, which offences and acts of wrongdoing had occurred during
the period 10th January 2010 to 10th January, 2015, and resulted in serious loss or damage to State assets and revenue and

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'16
PART  I :  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 16.01.2019
2A
that a Commissioin of Inquiry was established by me by warrant dated 03rd March, 2015 in terms of provisions of Section
2 of the Presidential Commission of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) to make investigations and inquiries into the aforesaid
complaints, allegations and information with the view to assertaining the veracity of such complaints, allegations and
information.
AND WHEREAS, the final report of the said Commission was handed over to me on 02nd January, 2018.
AND WHEREAS, A large number  of serious complaints and allegations had been made against persons who had
held or continue to hold political office and those who have been or continue to be public servants and officers of
statutory bodies regarding acts of corruption, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminal misappropriation of property,
cheating and abuse or misuse of power or authority, State resources and privilages during the period 15th January, 2015 to
31st December, 2018.
AND WHEREAS, I am of the opinion that it is in the interest of public security and welfare, to cause the conduct
of investigations and inquiries into such complaints, allegations and information, in order to determine what measures
should be taken to provide for and ensure that the law is appropriately enforced and wrongdoers dealt with in terms of the
law, and that there will be no recurrence of such alleged acts amounting to offences and abuse or misuse of power or
authority.
AND WHEREAS, I am of the view that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to investigate
and inquire into and report or take necessary action on matters hereinafter referred to and provided for.
NOW THEREFORE, I, Maithripala Sirisena, the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
resposing great trust and confidence in your integrity, prudence, ability and fidelity, do in pursuance of the provisions of
Section 2 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393), by these presents appoint you, the said :
1. Honourable Abeyratne Herath Mudiyanselage Upaly Abeyrathne Esquire
Retired Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Honourable (Ms.) Sarojini Kusala Weerawardane
Retired Judge of the High Court
3. Pasdunkorale Arachchige Pemathilaka Esquire
Retired Auditor General
4. Lalith R. de Silva Esquire
Retired Secretary to a Ministry
5. M. K. D. Wijaya Amarasinghe Esquire
Retired Deputy Inspector - General
to be my Commissioners to investigate and inquire into, take necessary action and report on the following matters
namely :
1. To call for and receive public complaints, information and other material relating to serious allegations against
persons who have held or continue to hold political office, those who have been or continue to be public
servants and officers of statutory bodies, regarding acts of corruption, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminal
misappropriation of property, cheating, and abuse or misuse of power, State resources and privileges allegedly
occurred during the period of 15th January, 2015 to 31st December, 2018 and have resulted in serious loss or
damages to State assets and State revenue ;
2. To conduct prompt, impartial, comprehensive investigations and inquiries into complaints, information and
allegations referred to in paragraph 1 above ;
3. To Identify persons who have been or are responsible in terms of the law for committing such offences, acts of
wrongdoing, and abuse or misuse of power or authority, State resources and privileges ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'16
PART  I :  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 16.01.2019
3A
4. To Identify and collect evidence available with regard to such offences and acts of wrongdoing as referred  to in
paragrph 1 above, and against persons responsible for having committed offences connected with such incidents
and wrongdoing ;
5. To Identity which of the acts coming within the ambit of matters referred to in paragraph 1 above, should be
forwarded to the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption  or to the Police or to any
other law enforcement authority or statutory body for the conduct of necessary investigations an inquiries with
the view to instituting criminal proceedings against persons alleged to have committed the said offences ;
6. To transmit to the Attorney General investigational and inquiry material, enabling the Attorney General to consider
the institution of criminal proceedings against persons alleged to have committed the said offences and prosecute
the accused ;
7. To present to me recommendations of the Commission regarding what action if any, should be taken against
those held responsible for having committed offences and acts of wrongdoing and recommendations aimed at
preventing the occurrence of such offences and acts of wrongdoing in the future ;
And, I do hereby appoint you the said Honourable Abeyratne Herath Mudiyanselage Upaly Abeyratne Esquire,
Retired Judge of the Supreme Court  to be the Chairman of the said Commission.
AND, I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to conduct or cause the conduct of
necessary criminal and forensic investigations and inquiries and hold all public and or confidential inquires into the
aforesaid matters as may appear to you to be necessary, and require you to transmit to me within three months from the
date of this warrant the first Interim Report, and thereafter subsequent Interim Reports once a month, and the Final Report
within the six months of the date hereof under your hand, setting out the findings of your investigations and inquiries, and
your recommedations relating thereto.
AND, I hereby direct that any three Commissioners from among you shall participate in the Commission meetings
to fulfill its quorum.
AND, I do hereby direct that such part of any investigations or inquiry relating to the aforesaid matters, as you
may in your discretion determine, shall not be held in public.
AND, I do hereby require and direct all public servants and officers of statutory bodies, and other persons to
whom you may apply for assistance or information, to render all such assistance and furnish all such information required
for investigation or inquiries  as may be properly rendered and furnished in that behalf.
AND, I do hereby declare that the provisions of Section 14 of the aforesaid Commissions of Inquiry Act shall
apply to this Commission.
Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, on this 14th day of
January, 2019.
 By order of His Excellency,
U
DAYA R. S ENEVIRATNE,
Secretary to the President .
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.