

<!-- page 1 -->

1
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
MEDIATION (CIVIL AND COMMERCIAL DISPUTES)
A
BILL
to provide for the Mediation of Civil and Commercial Disputes; to repeal 
the Commercial Mediation Center of Sri Lanka Act, No. 44 of 2000;  
and for matters connected therewith or  incidental thereto
————————
Presented by the Minister of  Justice and National Integration 
on 11th of  July, 2025
(Published in the Gazette on July 03, 2025)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
 SRI LANKA
 ————————
printed at the department of government printing, sri lanka
to be purchased at the government publications bureau, colombo 5
Price : Rs. 86.50 Postage : Rs. 150.00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
[Bill No. 27]

<!-- page 2 -->

1
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
L.D.- O 8/2025 
 
An Act to  provide for the Mediation of Civil and 
Commercial Disputes; to repeal the Commercial 
Mediation Center of Sri Lanka Act, No. 44 of 2000; 
and for matters connected therewith or  incidental 
thereto
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows : - 
 1. This Act may be cited as the Mediation (Civil and 
Commercial Disputes) Act, No.   of 2025. 
 2. (1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the 
provisions of this Act shall apply to the settlement of 
civil and commercial disputes (hereinafter referred to as 
“disputes”) by mediation in accordance with the provisions 
of this Act whether in pursuance of a mediation agreement 
or voluntarily referred to mediation by a party to the dispute, 
in the absence of such an agreement or referred by a court 
of law.
 (2) The provisions of this Act shall not apply to the 
settlement of disputes by mediation in terms of the Mediation 
Boards Act, No. 72 of 1988, or the Mediation (Special 
Categories of Disputes) Act, No. 21 of 2003.
 (3) No dispute which is required to be submitted to 
mediation in terms of the Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 
1988 or the Mediation (Special Categories of Disputes) Act, 
No. 21 of 2003, shall be submitted to mediation in terms of 
the provisions of this Act.
Short title
5
10
15
20
Application 
of the Act

<!-- page 3 -->

2
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
30
 3.  A mediation shall not be conducted in respect of any 
dispute the settlement of which requires the inclusion of 
terms that can be given effect to only on a decree or order 
of court including in respect of any dispute set out in the 
schedule hereto:
  Provided however, that matters relevant to such disputes 
may be mediated for the purpose of submitting terms of 
settlement to court for consideration of incorporation in a 
judgement, decree or order in compliance with applicable 
law.
 4. (1) Parties may by a mediation agreement which may 
be either a clause in a contract or a separate agreement 
in writing, agree to refer for settlement by mediation, 
any dispute existing or which may arise between them in 
respect of a defined legal relationship whether contractual or 
otherwise, which can be settled by mediation. 
 (2) A mediation agreement may include such terms as 
are agreed to by the parties with regard to the conduct of 
the mediation, including the name of the Mediation Service 
Provider, the rules that shall apply in the conduct of the 
mediation and the time period within which the mediation 
shall be concluded.
          
 5. (1) Where parties to a dispute have agreed to mediate 
in terms of a mediation agreement or where mediation 
proceedings have commenced in terms of this Act even in the 
absence of a mediation agreement, notwithstanding anything 
to the contrary in any other written law, no proceedings in 
regard to such dispute shall be instituted in or be entertained 
by a court, unless a certificate of non- settlement in respect 
of such dispute which constitutes the cause of action in such 
proceedings, is produced. 
Disputes that
cannot be 
mediated
 
Mediation 
Agreement
Court 
proceedings 
not to be 
instituted or 
be entertained 
prior to 
conclusion 
of mediation, 
where parties 
have agreed to 
mediate

<!-- page 4 -->

3
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
 
5
10
15
20
25
30
 (2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply 
where a party to a dispute referred to therein seeks relief in 
respect of any provisional remedy sought under Part V of 
the Civil Procedure Code or any other law, and any action 
instituted in respect of any such matter may be entertained 
and determined by a Court only in so far as it relates to the 
grant of such provisional remedy.
 6. In computing the period of prescription in respect of 
any cause of action, the period commencing from the date 
of commencement of the mediation and ending on the date 
of the Settlement Agreement, or of the certificate of non- 
settlement, as the case may be, shall be excluded from such 
computation, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 
any other written law.
 7. (1) A court in which an action with regard to any dispute 
has been filed may, at its discretion upon consideration of all 
relevant circumstances, determine whether it is appropriate 
to refer the dispute or any part thereof for settlement by 
mediation and shall, if so determined, make order referring 
the dispute or part thereof to mediation  administered by a 
Mediation Service Provider selected by the parties.
 (2) The Mediation Service Provider to whom the 
dispute is referred in terms of subsection (1), shall take steps 
to appoint a mediator in compliance with the applicable rules 
and have the mediation concluded within sixty days from the 
date of receipt of   the order of court.
 (3) Where during a mediation, it appears that the 
mediation will not be able to be completed within the 
period of time referred to in subsection (2) and the mediator 
and the parties are of the opinion that there are prospects 
for settlement and wish to continue the mediation beyond 
such period of time, the Mediation Service Provider shall 
Prescription 
not to apply 
during 
mediation
Reference to 
mediation by 
court

<!-- page 5 -->

4
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
30
be informed accordingly and the parties shall make an 
application to court requesting a further period that shall be 
specified, to complete the mediation and the mediator shall 
proceed with the mediation.  
 (4) Upon the expiry of the further period of time 
granted by court under subsection (3), the parties or the 
Mediation Service Provider as the case may be, shall proceed 
in compliance with subsection (5) or (6) as applicable.
 (5) Where upon such a referral made by court, a 
Settlement Agreement is entered into pursuant to mediation, 
the Settlement Agreement together with the documents 
referred to in section 23 shall be filed in court by the parties 
and the terms thereof shall be entered as a decree of court, 
unless a party to the Settlement Agreement establishes 
that a decree shall not be entered on any ground set out in  
section 26  in which event, the court shall proceed to hear 
and determine the matter as if no settlement was reached.
 (6) Where upon such a referral made by court, a 
settlement is not reached, the Mediation Service Provider 
shall report to court accordingly, and if a settlement was not 
possible due to the absence of a party, shall state such fact 
giving details of notices sent to such party and the dates of 
absence of such party, whereupon the court shall proceed to 
hear and determine the matter.
 8. (1) A mediation of a dispute shall be initiated –
(a) where there is a mediation agreement and 
a Mediation Service Provider is named 
therein, by a party to the dispute by written 
notice to such Mediation Service Provider, 
that a dispute has arisen, and requesting that 
mediation proceedings be commenced and 
How a 
mediation can 
be initiated

<!-- page 6 -->

5
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
30
forwarding a copy of the Notice to the other 
party or parties to the dispute; or 
(b) where there is a mediation agreement and 
a Mediation Service Provider is not named 
therein, by a party forwarding to the other 
party or parties to the dispute, a written 
notice that the dispute will be referred to 
mediation and nominating a Mediation 
Service Provider to whom a copy of such 
notice shall be forwarded; or
(c) where there is no mediation agreement-
(i) by the parties to the dispute jointly 
forwarding to an agreed Mediation 
Service Provider, a written notice 
to commence mediation which may 
contain a nomination of a mediator 
if agreed upon; or
(ii) a party forwarding to the other party 
or parties to the dispute, an invitation 
to refer the dispute to mediation and 
nominating a Mediation Service 
Provider to whom a copy of such 
invitation shall be forwarded.
 
(2) If the party that invited the other party or 
parties to refer the dispute to mediation as provided for in  
subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) does not 
receive an acceptance of the invitation within a period of 
thirty days from the date of transmission of the invitation or 
such other period of time as specified in the invitation, the 
party forwarding the invitation may consider it as a rejection 
of the invitation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) Where mediation of a dispute is initiated by a 
party in terms of subsection (1) above, the Mediation Service 
Provider shall, on receipt of the notice, forthwith proceed to 
take such steps as are necessary to appoint a mediator and to 
commence the mediation. 
 9. (1) For the purpose of conducting a mediation, there 
shall be one mediator unless the parties agree that there shall 
be two or more mediators.
(2) The parties shall endeavour to reach an agreement 
on a mediator and in the event that the parties are unable to 
agree, the Mediation Service Provider shall appoint one or 
more mediators taking into consideration the nature of the 
dispute, the preferences of the parties and the qualifications, 
suitability and availability of the appointee.
 10. Mediation of a dispute shall be deemed to have 
commenced on the date of appointment of the mediator.
 11. A court shall, in awarding costs in any action or 
proceeding relating to a civil or commercial dispute, take 
into account whether any party has unreasonably refused to 
participate in mediation.
 12. It shall be the obligation and the responsibility of the 
parties to a mediation to attempt in good faith to settle the 
dispute by mediation, maintain confidentiality in compliance 
with the provisions set out in this Act and to comply with the 
rules applicable to the conduct of a mediation.  
 13. (1) A party to a dispute shall be entitled and required 
to engage directly during all stages of the mediation and 
shall not be represented by any other person. 
(2) A party may opt to be accompanied at the 
mediation by any other person who can assist the party to 
Appointment 
of mediator
Commencement 
of a mediation
Liability 
to costs for 
unreasonable 
refusal to 
mediate
Obligation of 
parties to a 
mediation
A party to 
engage in the 
mediation 
directly.

<!-- page 8 -->

7
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
30
reach a solution including an Attorney-at-Law and such other 
person may, at the request of such party make statements on 
behalf of the party, subject to the management and control of 
the mediation process by the mediator.
(3) A party which is a corporate or statutory body 
or other entity with legal personality or a government 
department or other institution , shall be represented by an 
officer with due level of authority granted in writing, to 
speak on behalf of the party to reach a settlement and to 
agree to a settlement. 
 14. (1) A Mediation Service Provider shall provide 
administrative support to the mediator for the conduct of 
the mediation and shall, for such purpose comply with the 
following requirements :-
(a) adopt such rules as are necessary for the 
conduct of mediations, including but not 
limited to the procedure for the appointment of 
mediators, the observance of the law relating 
to confidentiality and without prejudice, the 
observance of the principle of party autonomy, 
the integrity of the mediation process, the 
roles of the parties and of the mediator and the 
conduct of the mediation process; and 
(b) adopt a code of ethics for mediators that shall 
include the requirements set out in section 15. 
(2) A Mediation Service Provider that has not adopted 
rules and a Code of ethics as set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) 
of subsection (1) respectively, shall not entertain applications 
or requests for the administration of mediation services and 
shall not administer mediation services.
Obligations 
of Mediation 
Service 
Providers

<!-- page 9 -->

8
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
30
 15. A mediator shall at all times ensure that the integrity 
of the mediation process is maintained and shall, for that 
purpose observe the following in the conduct of mediations :-
(a) explain to the parties the mediation process, the 
non-coercive role of the mediator and the role 
expected of the parties;
(b) use such skills and techniques as are appropriate 
to assist the parties to reach an informed and 
voluntary solution which is acceptable, and not 
impose upon them a solution to the dispute;
(c) conduct the mediation in a timely, fair, impartial, 
neutral and cost-effective manner;
(d) maintain the trust of the disputing parties at all 
times of the mediation;
(e) conduct as many mediation conferences as may 
be necessary with all the parties jointly, as well as 
separately, as are considered to be appropriate in 
the circumstances;
(f) avoid a conflict of interest or an appearance of a 
conflict of interest during and after the mediation 
and for that purpose decline or offer to withdraw 
from the mediation if circumstances prevent an 
avoidance of real or perceived conflict;
(g) disclose to the parties any actual or perceived 
conflict of interest immediately on becoming 
aware of such a situation whether prior to 
accepting the appointment as a mediator or at any 
time during the mediation, and accept the role 
of mediator or continue in the role only with the 
written consent of the parties;
Obligations of 
mediators

<!-- page 10 -->

9
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
(h) maintain the confidentiality of a mediation in 
compliance with the provisions of section 16, 
including any information disclosed by a party on 
the specific condition that such information should 
be kept confidential and should not be divulged to 
the other party or parties, and also with regard to 
notes maintained during the mediation process;
(i) comply with the provisions of the applicable code 
of conduct for mediators; and
(j) conduct the mediation in compliance with such 
terms as are agreed to by the parties. 
 16. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), a 
mediator, the parties to the mediation and all other persons 
that participate in a mediation for the settlement of a 
dispute shall maintain confidentiality with regard to matters 
discussed during the mediation, including the following: -
(a) statements made, opinions expressed, options and 
proposals for settlement generated by a party;
(b) interpretations offered by any party or any 
professional;
(c) an invitation by a party to engage in mediation or 
the fact that a party was willing to participate in 
mediation;
(d) the fact that a party had or had not been willing to 
accept any proposals made for settlement;
(e) a document prepared primarily for mediation.
Confidentiality 
of mediation 
proceedings

<!-- page 11 -->

10
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), all 
statements made by any person with regard to any matter 
referred to in subsection (1), during a mediation shall be made 
without prejudice, and shall not be admissible in evidence 
in any court of law or in any arbitration or other dispute 
resolution process except where disclosure is required 
under the law or for the purposes of implementation or 
enforcement of the Settlement Agreement, and accordingly, 
no party to a mediation shall seek to introduce any such 
matter in evidence in any court, arbitration or other process 
and the court, Arbitral tribunal or other authority shall not 
take cognizance of such matters.   .
(3) Evidence that is otherwise admissible in arbitral, 
judicial or other dispute resolution proceedings shall not 
become inadmissible as a consequence of having been used 
or disclosed in a mediation.
(4) No person, including the parties to the mediation, 
the Mediation Service Provider and the mediator, shall 
make an audio or video recording of mediation proceedings 
whether conducted in person or virtually.
 17. A mediation shall be terminated-
(a) when the parties have signed a Settlement 
Agreement; or
(b) where the mediator makes a declaration that the 
mediation is terminated without a settlement, 
in any of the following circumstances :-
(i) that considering the progress of 
the mediation, further attempts at 
mediation are futile and are unlikely 
to result in a resolution of the dispute;
Termination 
of a mediation

<!-- page 12 -->

11
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
(ii) where a party informs the mediator in 
writing that the party is withdrawing 
from the mediation; or
(iii) where all the parties inform the 
mediator in writing that they wish to 
terminate the mediation proceedings.
 18. (1) Where the parties have reached an agreement 
on the terms of settlement, the mediator shall, after being 
satisfied that the parties clearly understand the terms of 
settlement and obligations arising therefrom, ensure that the 
terms of the settlement are set out in writing in a Settlement 
Agreement which shall be signed by the parties.
(2) The Settlement Agreement so signed by the 
parties, shall be attested either by the mediator or an 
authorized official of the Mediation Service Provider 
confirming that such Settlement Agreement was reached as 
a result of mediation and originals thereof shall be issued to 
each of the parties.
 19. (1) A Settlement Agreement shall be binding between 
the parties to such Settlement Agreement, and enforceable in 
law as a valid contract:  
   Provided however, that the terms of a Settlement 
Agreement shall not affect the rights of persons who are not 
parties to the Settlement Agreement. 
(2) Where a party to a Settlement Agreement institutes 
legal proceedings in a court against another party to such 
agreement in respect of a matter which has been settled in 
terms of such Settlement Agreement, the court shall have no 
jurisdiction to hear and determine such matter.
Settlement 
Agreement
Binding nature 
of Settlement 
Agreement

<!-- page 13 -->

12
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
30
 20. (1) Where in any court proceeding, a dispute arises 
concerning a matter which a party to such proceedings claims 
has already been settled in terms of a mediated Settlement 
Agreement, subject to the provisions of subsection (2), such 
Settlement Agreement shall be admissible as evidence to 
establish that such matter has already been settled.
(2) Where in any court proceeding, an application 
is made to admit a Settlement Agreement as evidence, the 
application shall be allowed and the validity of the Settlement 
Agreement shall not be permitted to be challenged in such 
proceedings unless the High Court has, upon an application 
made by a party to the Settlement Agreement in terms of 
section 22 made an Order refusing the grant of a decree of 
court in respect of that Settlement Agreement in terms of 
section 26.
(3) Where in any court proceeding, an application is 
made to admit a Settlement Agreement as evidence and a 
party to that Settlement Agreement objects to its admission 
and an application for a decree of court has not been made 
under section 22 by either party, or an Order of court is 
pending upon such an application having been made by a 
party, the court shall, as the case may be-
(a) make order directing the party seeking to 
admit such Settlement Agreement to make 
an application in terms of section 22 to 
have the settlement entered as a decree of 
court and stay the proceedings; or
(b)  stay the proceedings until the Order is 
made by the High Court.
(4) A party to whom an Order is issued under 
paragraph (a) of subsection (3), shall take necessary steps to 
Admissibility 
of a 
Settlement 
Agreement in 
court 
proceedings

<!-- page 14 -->

13
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
30
make an application in terms of section 22 of the Act within 
thirty days of making of such Order, notwithstanding the 
time limit referred to in section 22.
 21. (1) Where the mediator declares that the mediation is 
terminated without a settlement, the mediator shall sign and 
issue a certificate of non-settlement to each of the parties, in 
which shall be contained a brief account of the dispute and 
a statement that the said dispute was referred for settlement 
by mediation and a settlement was not reached and shall, if 
the mediation was not able to be proceeded with, due to the 
absence of a party despite notices being forwarded requiring 
attendance at the mediation, state such fact therein giving 
details of notices sent and the dates of absence of such party. 
 (2) A certificate of non - settlement shall be admissible 
in evidence as being final and conclusive to establish that the 
dispute referred to therein was referred to mediation and that 
a settlement thereof was not possible.
 22. (1) A party, to a Settlement Agreement may, within 
twelve months from the date of the Settlement Agreement, 
make an application to the High Court to have the settlement 
entered as a decree of court.
(2) Any right or remedy available to a party to a 
Settlement Agreement that  exists or may arise in terms of 
such agreement shall not be affected, limited or restricted by 
an application made by such party under subsection (1) or by 
the fact that no such application was made.
 23. A party seeking to admit a Settlement Agreement for 
the purposes of section 20 or making an application under 
section 22, shall submit to the High Court or any other court, 
as the case may be, the original or a duly certified copy of 
the Settlement Agreement signed by the parties and attested 
Certificate of 
non - settlement
Application to 
have the 
settlement 
entered as a 
decree of 
court
Documents to 
be produced 
in court

<!-- page 15 -->

14
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
by the mediator or an authorized official of the Mediation 
Service Provider confirming that such Settlement Agreement 
was reached as a result of mediation.
 24. (1) Every application to the High Court under section 
22 shall be made by way of petition and affidavit, and all 
parties to the Settlement Agreement other than the petitioner 
or petitioners shall be named as respondents to such petition 
and shall be given notice of the same: 
    Provided however, a mediator or any official of the 
Mediation Service Provider who has attested the Settlement 
Agreement shall not be considered as a party to the Settlement 
Agreement and shall not be named as respondents.
 (2) Upon the petition and affidavit being presented, 
the High Court shall grant the respondents a date within two 
weeks of such presentation to state their objections, if any, in 
writing supported by affidavit, and to make available copies 
thereof to the petitioner, and shall appoint a day within 
two weeks of such date granted to the respondents, for the 
determination of the matters set out in the petition.
 (3) Evidence shall be given by way of affidavit in 
proceedings before the High Court: 
     Provided however, where the High Court deems fit, 
it may take evidence viva voce in addition to evidence given 
by affidavit.
 25. The court may presume that the signature of a 
mediator or an authorized official of the Mediation Service 
Provider placed on a Settlement Agreement or a certificate 
of non-settlement produced to court is genuine and it shall 
not call such person as a witness in proof thereof.
Proceedings 
before the 
High Court
Mediator or 
official not to 
be called as 
witnesses to 
signature

<!-- page 16 -->

15
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
 26. (1) The High Court, to which an application is made 
by a party in terms of section 22, may refuse to grant a 
decree of court in respect of the Settlement Agreement if it 
is established by any other party to that agreement that-
(a) a party to the Settlement Agreement was 
under some incapacity;
(b) the Settlement Agreement is not final, 
according to its terms;  
(c) the obligations of the Settlement 
Agreement- 
(i)   have been duly performed; or
(ii) are not clear or comprehensible;
(d) there was a serious breach by the mediator 
of the standards applicable to the mediator, 
or the mediation, without which breach 
that party would not have entered into the 
Settlement Agreement; or
(e) there was a failure by the mediator to 
comply with the duty of disclosure of a 
conflict of interest as set out in section 
15(2)(g), and the failure to disclose had 
a material impact or undue influence on 
that party without which failure that party 
would not have entered into the Settlement 
Agreement.
Grounds for 
refusing a 
decree of 
court

<!-- page 17 -->

16
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
   (2) The court may also refuse to grant a decree if it 
finds that-
(a) the granting of a decree would be contrary 
to the public policy of Sri Lanka; or
(b) the subject matter of the dispute is not 
capable of settlement by mediation under 
the laws of Sri Lanka.
 27. (1) Where an application is made in terms of section 
22 and no grounds have been established to refuse the 
grant of the decree prayed for, the court shall, on a day of 
which notice shall be given to the parties, proceed to enter 
judgement according to the said agreement whereupon a 
decree shall be entered.
(2) Where a Settlement Agreement has been recorded 
as a decree of the High Court, it may be enforced in the 
same manner as a decree entered under the provisions of 
the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101) and accordingly 
the provisions of Chapter XXII of the Civil Procedure Code 
relating to the execution of decrees shall, mutatis mutandis, 
apply to such enforcement.
 28. (1) The Commercial Mediation Center of Sri Lanka 
Act, No. 44 of 2000 is hereby repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Commercial 
Mediation Center of Sri Lanka Act, No.44 of 2000, all 
assets and liabilities of the Commercial Mediation Center of  
Sri Lanka which are subsisting on the day preceding the date 
of commencement of this Act shall with effect from the date 
of commencement of this Act, vest in the State.  
Entering a 
decree of 
court
Repeals and 
savings

<!-- page 18 -->

17
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
5
10
15
20
25
30
 29. In this Act-
“High Court” means the relevant High Court 
established for the Province by Article 
154P of the Constitution and exercising 
civil jurisdiction under the High Court of 
the Provinces (Special Provisions) Act, 
No. 10 of 1996;
‘in writing” shall mean the recording of any 
content in any form including an electronic 
communication where the information 
contained therein is accessible for 
subsequent reference;
“Mediation” means a process, irrespective of the 
expression used or the basis upon which 
the process is carried out, whereby parties 
attempt to reach an amicable settlement 
of their dispute with the assistance of a 
third party neutral person or persons (“the 
mediator”) lacking the authority to impose 
upon the parties a solution to the dispute;
“Mediation Service Provider” means a person 
or entity that provides services for the 
administration of mediations; 
“Mediator” shall mean the third party neutral 
person appointed to assist in settling a 
dispute by mediation and shall include 
a single Mediator or more than one 
Mediator.
 30. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Interpretation
Sinhala text 
to prevail in 
case of 
inconsistency

<!-- page 19 -->

18
Mediation (Civil and Commercial Disputes)
schedule
[Section 3]
1. Disputes seeking a dissolution of marriage.
2. Disputes seeking a Declaration of nullity of marriage.
3. Disputes relating to persons and estates of persons of unsound mind, 
minors and wards.
4. Disputes relating to guardians, curators and receivers.
5. Disputes relating to the adoption of children.
6. Disputes relating to the registration of births and deaths.
7. Disputes seeking a partitioning of immovable property to obtain 
rights in rem.
8. Disputes regarding the issue of Probate and Letters of Administration.
9. Disputes seeking relief under the Insolvency Ordinance.
10. Disputes regarding Admiralty matters relating to rights in rem.
11. Disputes alleging a breach of fundamental rights by executive or 
administrative action.

<!-- page 20 -->

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING