

<!-- page 1 -->

NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC ART SOCIETY OF          
SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the National Photographic Art Society of Sri Lanka
————————
Presented by  Hon. Waruna Liyanage, M.P . for Rathnapura District
on 06th of June, 2025
(Published in the Gazette on May 26, 2025)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
 ————————
[Bill No. 20]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 45.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

National Photographic Art Society 
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
1
5
15
20
25
10
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC 
ART SOCIETY OF SRI LANKA
WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “The National 
Photographic Art Society of Sri Lanka” has heretofore been 
formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying 
out its objects and transacting all matters  connected with 
the said foundation according to the rules agreed to by its 
members:
AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore 
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects 
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to 
be  incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to 
grant the said application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1.  This Act may be cited as the National Photographic 
Art Society of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2025.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this 
act, such and so many persons as now are members of The 
National Photographic Art Society of Sri Lanka (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted 
as members of the Society hereby constituted, shall be a 
body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name 
and style of “The National Photographic Art Society of             
Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”) 
and by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and  
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same 
at its pleasure.
(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary 
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for 
the purpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations 
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the 
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the 
management of the affairs of the body corporation.
Short title
Incorporation 
of the 
National 
Photographic 
Art Society of 
Sri Lanka
30
Preamble

<!-- page 3 -->

2 National Photographic Art Society 
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
15
20
25
10
30
3.  The body corporate shall operate exclusively as a not-
for-proﬁ t Organization and it is solely for the bene ﬁ t of the 
Society and its members.
4.  (1) The general objects for which the body corporate 
is constituted are hereby declared to be—
 ( a) to accomplish the task of teaching photography 
to Sri Lankan free of charge and promoting 
professional skills of photography;
 ( b) to provide guidance and recommendations to        
Sri Lankan photographers to achieve international 
achievements as well as international qualiﬁ cations 
as the only local operational member of the 
International Federation of Photographic Act;
 ( c) to compile of syllabus for photography education 
of school children, provision of resource 
persons, conducting annual school photography 
examination and contributing to the introduction 
and implementation of photography as a                       
co-curricular activity of the Ministry of Education;
 ( d) to release publications useful to the development 
of photographic arts, under the supervision of the 
Society; and
 ( e) to co-operate with local as well as foreign 
photographers’ societies in order to achieve the 
above objectives. 
(2) In the implementation of the objects speci ﬁ ed 
in subsection (1) the body corporate shall ensure that 
such implementation shall be carried out without any 
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex, 
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.
The General 
objects of 
the body 
corporate
Body 
corporate as a 
not-for-proﬁ t 
Organization

<!-- page 4 -->

National Photographic Art Society 
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
3
5
15
20
25
10
5.  The objects of the body corporate shall be carried 
out in such manner so as not to create any con ﬂ ict between 
the work of the body corporate and any work being carried 
out simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the 
Government or any Provincial Council.
6. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, management 
and the administration of the body corporate shall be carried 
out by a an Executive Committee (hereinafter referred 
to as “the Committee”) consisting of such number of                    
ofﬁ ce bearers as may be speci ﬁ ed by the rules made under 
section 8.
(2) ( a) The Executive Committee of the Society that 
holds ofﬁ ce on the day immediately preceding the date of 
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Interim 
Committee of the body corporate until the First Executive 
Committee is appointed or elected in the manner provided 
for by rules made under section 8.
(b) The First Committee of the body corporate shall 
be appointed or elected within one year of the date of 
commencement of this Act.
(3) ( a) Every of ﬁ ce bearer of the Committee including 
the patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for 
a period of three years and any such of ﬁ ce bearer, shall be 
eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse of the 
said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death, 
resignation, incapacity or removal from of ﬁ ce of an of ﬁ ce 
bearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of the 
Society, elect or appoint a person to ﬁ ll such vacancy.
Body         
corporate 
to ensure 
no conﬂ ict 
with work of 
Ministry or 
Department 
of the Central 
Government 
or Province
Management 
of the affairs 
of the body 
corporate

<!-- page 5 -->

4 National Photographic Art Society 
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b) 
shall hold ofﬁ ce only for the unexpired portion of the term 
of ofﬁ ce of the member whom he succeeds.
7.  Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other 
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do, 
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary 
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including 
the power—
 ( a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and 
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may 
be required for the purpose of the body corporate 
and to deal with or dispose of the same as may be 
deemed expedient with a view to promoting the 
objects of the body corporate;
 ( b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations, 
in cash or kind with or without security:
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior 
written approval of the Department of External 
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned 
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign 
grants, gifts or donations made to the Body 
corporate;
 ( c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate, 
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques, 
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments 
and to open, operate and close accounts in any 
banks;
 ( d) to invest any funds not immediately required for 
the purposes of the body corporate in such manner 
as the Committee may determine;
5
15
20
25
30
10
Powers of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 6 -->

National Photographic Art Society 
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
 ( e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and 
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal 
property with a view to promoting the objects of 
the body corporate;
 ( f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services 
of ofﬁ cers and servants of the body corporate and 
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay 
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as 
may be determined by the body corporate;
 ( g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient 
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects 
of the body corporate.
8.  (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time 
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less 
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make 
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any 
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:–
 ( a) the classi ﬁ cation of membership, admission, 
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members 
and fees payable by members;
 ( b) the election of of ﬁ ce bearers of the Committee or 
vacation of or removal from ofﬁ ce of ofﬁ ce bearers 
and the powers, duties and functions of the of ﬁ ce 
bearers;
 ( c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers, 
functions and duties of the various of ﬁ cers, agents 
and servants of the body corporate;
5
15
20
25
10
Rules of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 7 -->

6 National Photographic Art Society 
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
 ( d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning 
and holding of meetings of the Committee, or any           
subcommittee thereof, notices and agenda of such 
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business 
thereat;
 ( e) the quali ﬁ cation and disquali ﬁ cation to be a 
member of the Committee and the body corporate;
 ( f) the administration and management of the property 
of the body corporate; and
 ( g) the management of the affairs of the body corporate 
and the accomplishment of its’ objects and 
dissolution of the body corporate.
(2) The rules made by the body corporate may be 
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting 
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3)  The members of the body corporate shall at all time 
be subject to rules of the body corporate.
(4)  The rules made under this section shall be published 
in the Government Gazette.
9.  The Committee shall maintain a register of members 
in which name, address and other essential details of the 
members be inscribed.
10.  (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, 
donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants for an 
account of the body corporate shall be deposited in one or 
more banks approved by the Committee to the credit of the 
body corporate.
5
15
20
25
10
Register of 
members
Fund of the 
body corporate

<!-- page 8 -->

National Photographic Art Society 
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
7
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money 
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the 
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge 
of its power, duties and functions under the Act.
11.  (1) The ﬁ nancial year of the body corporate shall be 
the calendar year.
(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be 
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all 
other transactions of the body corporate.
(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited 
the Auditor General or by a quali ﬁ ed auditor appointed in 
terms of Article 154 of the Constitution.
 (4) For the purpose of this section “quali ﬁ ed auditor” 
means—
 ( a) an individual who being a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other 
institute established by law, possesses a certi ﬁ cate 
to practice as an Accountant issued by  the Council 
of such  Institute; or
 ( b) a ﬁ rm of Accountants each of the resident partners 
of which being a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other 
Institute established by law, possesses a certi ﬁ cate 
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council 
of such Institute.
12.  (1) The Committee shall prepare a report of the 
activities of the body corporate for each ﬁ nancial year and 
submit such report together with the audited statement of 
accounts to the membership at the Annual General Meeting.
5
15
20
25
10
Accounts and 
the auditing
Annual Report

<!-- page 9 -->

8 National Photographic Art Society 
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and 
local moneys received by the body corporate during the 
ﬁ nancial year shall be attached to the report referred to in                                
subsection (1).
13.  All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on the 
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall 
be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted, and all 
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable to 
the Centre on that day shall be paid to the body corporate for 
the purpose of this Act.
14. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the body 
corporate shall be able and capable in law, to take and 
hold any property movable or immovable which may 
become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, 
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property 
shall be held by the Body corporate for the purposes of 
this Act, and subject to the rules of the body corporate  
made under section 8, with power to sell, mortgage, lease, 
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
15. The moneys and property of the body corporate 
however derived shall be applied solely towards the 
promotion of the objects of the body corporate and no portion 
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by 
way of dividend, bonus or proﬁ t to the members of the body 
corporate.
16.  (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be afﬁ xed 
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two 
members of the Committee who shall sign their names to the 
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall 
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
5
15
20
25
30
10
Debts due by 
and payable to 
the Society
Body 
corporate may 
hold property 
movable and 
immovable
Application 
of money and 
property
Seal of the 
body 
corporate

<!-- page 10 -->

National Photographic Art Society 
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
9
(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody 
of an ofﬁ ce bearer of the Committee as may be decided by 
such Committee.
17.  (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate there 
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, 
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be 
distributed among the members of the body corporate, but 
shall be given or transferred to any other institution having 
objects similar to those of the body corporate, and which is  
by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any income 
or property among its  members. 
(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate 
institution shall be determined by the members of the body 
corporate immediately before the dissolution at a general 
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
18.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect 
the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or corporate.
19.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
5
15
10
Property 
remaining on 
dissolution
Saving of the 
Rights of the 
Republic and 
others
Sinhala text 
to prevail 
in case of 
inconsistency

<!-- page 11 -->

10 National Photographic Art Society 
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Printed at the Department of  Government Printing