

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2154$50 - 2019 foieïn¾ ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'12'20
No. 2154/50 - FRIDAY,  DECEMBER  20, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A  G 31694— 67 (12/2019)
INLAND   REVENUE  ACT,  NO. 24  OF  2017
Notice
IT is hereby notified under Section 75(1) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017, that the bilateral Agreement for
affording relief from double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion, entered into on 15.08.2018 between the Government
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Sultanate of Oman is set out in the Schedule
hereto, has been approved by Parliament by resolution passed on 23.10.2019.
S. R. A
TTYGALLE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance, Economic and Policy Development.
Ministry of Finance, Economic and Policy Development,
Colombo 01,
19th December, 2019.
SCHEDULE
A
GREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
SULTANATE OF OMAN FOR THE A VOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXA TION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EV ASION WITH RESPECT TO
TAXES ON INCOME
The Government of the  Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Sultanate of
Oman, desiring to conclude an Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income, have agreed as follows:


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
2A
Article 1
PERSONS  COVERED
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
TAXES   COVERED
1. This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State, irrespective of the manner
in which they are levied.
2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, including
taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, taxes on the total amounts of wages or
salaries paid by enterprises, as well as taxes on capital appreciations.
3. The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are in particular :
(a) in the case of Sri Lanka :
- the income tax, including the income tax based on the turnover of enterprises entered into agreements
with the Board of Investment;
(hereinafter referred to as “Sri Lanka tax”);
(b) in the case of the Sultanate of Oman:
- the income tax
    (hereinafter referred to as “Omani tax”)
4. The Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes on income that are imposed after the
date of signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the
Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes made in their respective taxation laws.
Article  3
GENERAL  DEFINITIONS
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) the term “Sri Lanka” means the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as defined in the
Constitution, including its land territory, internal waters and territorial sea, air space above them as well as the
exclusive economic zone and continental shelf where the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka exercises
or may hereafter exercise sovereign rights and jurisdiction in conformity with international law and its national
legislation;
(b) the term “Sultanate of Oman” means the territory of the Sultanate of Oman and the islands belonging thereto,
including ther territorial waters and any area outside the terrotorial waters over which the Sultanate of Oman
may, in accordance with international law  and the laws of the Sultanate of Oman,  exercise sovereign rights
with respect to the exploration and exploitation of the natural resources of the sea-bed and the sub-soil and
the superjacent waters;
(c) the terms “a Contracting State” and “the other Contracting State” mean  Sri Lanka or the Sultanate of Oman as
the context requires;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
3A
(d) the term “person” includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons;
(e) the term “company” means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
(f) the terms “enterprise of a Contracting State” and “enterprise of the other Contracting State” mean respectively
an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the
other Contracting State;
(g) the term “international traffic” means any transport by a ship or aricraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting
State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
(h) the term “national” means:
(i) any individual possessing the nationality of that Contracting State,
(ii) any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a
Contracting  State;
(i) the term “competent authority” means:
(i) in the case of Sri Lanka:
the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue; or an authorised representative of the  Commissioner
General;
(ii) in the case of Sultanate of Oman:
the Ministry of Finance or its authorised representative
(j) the term “tax” means Sri Lankan tax or Omani tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount
which is payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this, Agreement applies
or which represents a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes;
2. As regards the application of the Agreement at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall,
unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the laws of that Contracting
State for the purposes of the taxes to which this Agreement applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of
that Contracting State prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that Contracting State.
Article 4
RESIDENT
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term “resident of a Contracting State” means any person, who, under the
laws of that Contracting State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of incorporation,
place of registration, place of management, or any other  criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that
Contracting State or statutory body thereof. This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in
that Contracting State in respect only of income from sources in that Contracting State.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows:
(a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the Contracting State in which he has a permanent home available
to him;  if he has a permanent home available to him in both Contracting States, he shall be deemed to be a
resident only of the Contracting State with which his personal and  economic relations are closer (centre of
vital interests);

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
4A
(b) if the Contracting State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a
permanent home available to him in either Contracting State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the
Contracting State in which he has an habitual abode;
(c) if he has an habitual abode in both Contracting States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident
only of the Contracting State of which he is a national;
(d) if the status of the resident cannot be determined by reason of subparagraphs (a to c) in that sequence, the
competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the  question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both Contracting
States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the Contracting State in which its place of effective management
is situated.
Article 5
PERMANENT    ESTABLISHMENT
1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:
a) a place of management;
b) a branch;
c) an office;
d) a factory;
e) a workshop;  and
f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources.
3. The term "permanent establishment" likewise encompasses:
a) a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project, a drilling rig or ship used for the exploration
or development of natural resources, including supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only where
such site, project or activities continue for a period of more than 183 days within any twelve month period;
b) the furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise through employees or other
personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only if activities of that nature continue (for the
same or a connected project) within a Contracting State for a period or periods aggregating more than 183
days within any twelve month period.
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not
to include:
a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise;
b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
storage or display;
c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
processing by another enterprise;
d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of
collecting information, for the enterprise;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
5A
e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other
activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character;
f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this
combination is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent status
to whom paragraph 7 applies-is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting
State, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in
respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person:
a) has and habitually exercises in that Contracting State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the
enterprise, unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised
through a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment
under the provisions of that paragraph, or
b) has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned Contracting State a stock of goods or
merchandise from which he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise.
6. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except
in regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other Contracting State or insures risks situated therein through a person other
than an agent of an independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
7. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting
State merely because it carries on business in that other Contracting State through a broker, general commission
agent or any other agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of
their business. However, when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that
enterprise,  he shall not be considered an agent of an independent  status within the meaning of this paragraph.
8. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other Contracting State (whether through
a permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of
the other.
Article  6
INCOME   FROM IMMOV ABLE   PROPERTY
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture
or forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. The term “immovable property” shall have the meaning, which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to  immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agriculture (including the breeding and rearing of fish) and forestry, rights to which
the provisions of general law respecting landed property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable
or fixed payments as consideration for the working of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other
natural resources; ships, boats and aircraft shall not be regarded as immovable, property.
3. The provisions of paragraph  1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting or use in any other form of
immovable property.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
6A
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and to
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article  7
BUSINESS  PROFITS
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that Contracting State unless the enterprise
carries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise
carries on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other Contracting State but only so
much of them as is attributable to:
(a) that permanent establishment;
(b) sales in that other Contracting State of goods or merchandise of the same or similar kind as those sold
through that permanent establishment; or
(c) other business activities carried on in that other Contracting State of the same or similar kind as those effected
through that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the other
Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing
wholly independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Article 24, in determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there
shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are incurred for the purpose of the business of the permanent
estabishment including executive and general administrative expenses so incurred, whether in the Contracting State
in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, provided such deductions are in accordance with the
provisions of and subject to the limitations of the tax laws of that Contracting State. However, no such deduction
shall be allowed in respect of amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by
the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees
or other similar payments in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission, for specific
services performed or for management, or, except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on moneys
lent to the permanent establishment. Likewise, no account shall be taken, in the determination of the profits of a
permanent establishment, for amounts charged (otherwise than towards reimbursment of actual expenses), by the
permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or
other similar payments. In return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission for specific
services performed or for management, or, except in the case of a banking enterprise by way of interest on moneys
lent to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices.
4. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in
paragraph 2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment
as may be customary; the method of  apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in
accordance with the principles contained in this Article.
5. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
6. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then the
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
7A
Article 8
SHIPPING   AND   AIR   TRANSPORT
1. Profits derived in a Contracting State by an enterprise of the other Contracting State from the operation of ships in
international traffic may be taxed in the first-mentioned Contracting State, but the tax so charged shall be reduced
by an amount equal to 50 per cent thereof.
2. Profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable
only in that Contracting State.
3. For the purpose of this Article, the profits from “Operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic” by an enterprise,
includes:
(a) the charter, lease or rental on a bare boat charter basis of ships or aircraft, where such charter, lease or rent is
incidental to the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic;
(b) the use, maintenance or rental of containers, where such use, maintenance or rental is incidental to the operation
of ships or aircraft in international traffic.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply to profits derived from the participation in a pool, a joint
business or an international operating agency.
5. With respect to profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of aircraft in international
traffic, the provisions of the Agreement between the Government of the Sultanate of Oman and the Government of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the Avoidance of Double Taxation of income derived from
international air transport signed on 26th of July 1994 shall cease to have effect.
Article  9
ASSOCIATED    ENTERPRISES
1. Where
a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of
an enterprise of the other Contracting State, or
b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a
Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial
relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which
would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have  not
so accrued, may be included  in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I, in the profits of an enterprise
of that Contracting State - and taxes accordingly - profits on which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has
been charged to tax in that other Contracting State and - the profits so included are profits which would have accrued
to the enterprise of the first-mentioned Contracting State if the conditions made between the two enterprises had
been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other Contracting State shall
make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits, If it considers such
adjustment justified. In determing such adjustment,  due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement
and the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall  if neccessary, consult each other.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
8A
3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not apply where judicial, administrative or other legal proceedings have resulted
in a final ruling that by actions giving rise to an adjustment of profits under paragraph 1, one of the enterprises
concerned is liable to penalty with respect to fraud, gross negligence of willful default.
Article 10
DIVIDENDS
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State
may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident and according to the laws of that Contracting State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident
of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed ;
(a) seven and half per cent (7.5%) of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company
(other than a partnership) which holds directly at least ten per cent (10%) of the capital of the company paying
the dividends ;
(b) ten per cent (10%) of the gross amount of the dividend in all other cases.
The provisions of this paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of
which the dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt - claims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation
treatment as income from shares by the laws of the Contracting State of which the company making the distribution
is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other Contracting State independent
personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is
effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or
Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other Contracting State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as
such dividends are paid to a resident of that other Contracting State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the
dividends are paid is effectively connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other
Contracting State, nor subject the company's undistributed profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits,
even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such
other Contracting State.
6. The provisions of this Article shall not apply if it was the main purpose or one of the main purposes of any person
concerned with the creation or assignment of the shares or other rights in respect of which the dividend is paid to
take advantage of this Article by means of that creation on assignment.
Article 11
 INTEREST
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other
Contracting State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that
Contracting State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State the tax so
charged shall not exceed ten per cent (10%) of the gross amount of the interest.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
9A
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to the Government of
other Contracting State shall be exempt from tax in the first-mentioned Contracting State.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3, the terms “Government” shall include:
a) In the case of Sri Lanka:
(i) the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
(ii) such other financial institution or statutory body, the capital of which is wholly owned by the Government
of Sri Lanka, as may be agreed upon from time to time between the competent authorities of the
Contracting State.
b) In the case of Sultanate of Oman:
(i) the Central Bank of Oman;
(ii) the State General Reserve Fund;
(iii) The Omani Investment Fund; and
(iv) any other statutory body or institution wholly owned by the Government of the Sultanate of Oman, as
may be agreed from time to time between the competent authorities of the Contracting States.
5. The term “interest” as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by
a mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor’s profits, and in particular, income from
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of
this Article.
6. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other Contracting State independent personal services from a
fixed base situated therein, and the debt claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with
(a) such permanent establishment or fixed base, or with (b) business activities referred to in (c) of Paragraph 1 of
Article 7. In such cases, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
7. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however,
the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was
incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment or a fixed base then such interest shall be
deemed to arise in the Contracting State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
8. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt - cliam for which it is paid, exceeds the
amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship,
the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last - mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the
payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other
provisions of this Agreement.
9. The provisions of this Article shall not apply if it was the main purpose or one of the main purposes of any person
concerned with the creation or assignment of the debt claim in respect of which the interest is paid to take advantage
of this Article by means of that creation or assignment.
Article 12
ROYALTIES   AND    FEES  FOR   TECHNICAL   SERVICES
1. Royalties or fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
10A
2. However, such royalties or fees for technical Services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise,
and according to the laws of that Contracting State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical
services is a resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall not exceed ten per cent (10%) of the gross
amount of the royalties or fees for technical services.
3.(a) The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use
of, or  the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work, including cinematograph films or
films or tapes used for radio or television broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, computer
software, plan, secret formula or process, or for the use of, or  the right to use, industrial, commercial or
scientific equipment or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience.
.( b) The term "fees for technical services" as used in this Article means payments of any kind, other than those
mentioed in Article 15 of this Agreement as consideration for managerial or technical or consultancy services,
including the provision of services of techniacal or other personnel.
(c) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for
technical services being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in
which the royalties or fees for technical services arise, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or
performs in that other Contracting State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and
the right or property in respect of which the royalties or fees for technical services are paid is effectively
connected with (a) such permanent establishment or fixed base, or with (b) business activities referred to in
(c) of paragraph 1 of Article 7. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall
apply.
(d) Royalties and fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a
resident of that Contracting State. Where, however, the person paying the royalties or fees for technical
services, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State permanent
establishment or fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical
services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for technical services are borne by such permanent
establishment or fixed base, then such royalties or fees for technical services shall be deemed to arise in the
Contracting State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
(e) Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of
them and some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the
use, right or information for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by
the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall
apply only to the last mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable
according to the laws (last-mentioned) of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions
of this Agreement.
(f) The provision of the Article shall not apply if it was the main purpose or one of the main purposes of any
person concerned with the creation or assignment of the rights in respect of which the royalties or fees for
technical services are paid to take advantage of this Article by means of that creation or assignment.
Article 13
CAPITAL  GAINS
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in  Article
6 and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a
fixed base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone
or with the whole enterprise) or of such a fixed base, may be taxed in that other Contracting State.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
11A
3. Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the alientation of ships or aircraft operated in international
traffic or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft shall be taxable only in that Contracting
State.
4. Gains from the alienation of shares of the capital stock of a company, the property of which consists more than
seventy five per cent (75%) of the value, directly or indirectly, from immovable property situated in a Contracting
State may be taxed in that Contracting State.
5. Gains from the alientation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4  shall be taxable only
in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
INDEPENDENT   PERSONAL   SERVICES
1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State from the performance of professional
services or other activities of an independent character shall be taxable only in that Contracting State except in the
following circumstances when such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State:
(a) If he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing
his activities; in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that
other Contracting State; or
(b) If his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate
183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; in that case, only so
much of the income as is derived from his activities performed in that other Contracting State may be taxed in
that other Contracting State.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accountants.
Article 15
DEPENDENT  PERSONAL   SERVICES
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19 salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that Contracting State unless the
employment is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is
derived therefrom may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect
of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned Contracting
State if:
(a) the recipient is present in that other Contracting State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate
183 days within any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; and
(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of that other  Contracting State;
and
(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in that
other  Contracting State.
3. Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised
aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only
in that Contracting State.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
12A
Article 16
DIRECTORS'   FEES
Directors’ fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of the
board of directors or any other similar body of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed
in that other Contracting State.
Article 17
ENTERTAINER   AND   SPORTSPERSONS
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as such
accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the
provisions of Article 7, 14 and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or
sportsperson are exercised.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, income derived from activities referred to in paragraph 1
performed under a cultural agreement or arrangement between the Contracting States shall be exempt from tax in
the Contracting State in which the activities are exercised, if the visit to that Contracting State is wholly or substantially
supported by public funds of either Contracting State, a local authority or a statutory body thereof.
Article 18
PENSIONS   AND   ANNUITIES
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, any pension or other similar remuneration paid to a resident
of a Contracting State in consideration of past employment or services and any annuity paid to such a resident may
be taxed in that  Contracting State.
2. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during  life or during a specified or
ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration
in money or money's worth.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions paid and other payments made under a public scheme which
is part of the social security system of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that Contracting State.
Article 19
GOVERNMENT    SERVICE
1. ( a) Salaries, wages and other similar remunerations, other than a pension, paid by a Contracting State, a local
authority or a statutory body therof,  to an individual in respect of services rendered to that Contracting State,
authority or body shall be taxable only in that Contracting State.
(b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting
State if the services are rendered in that other Contracting State and the individual is a resident of that Contracting
State who:

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
13A
(i) is a national of that Contracting State; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that Contracting State solely for the purpose of rendering such services.
2. Any person paid by, or out of funds created by, a Contracting State, local authority or statutory body thereof to an
individual in respect of services rendered to that Contracting State, authority or body shall be taxable only in that
Contracting State.
3. The provisions of Articles  15, 16 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages,  and other similar remuneration and pensions
in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State, a local authority or
a statutory body thereof.
Article 20
TEACHERS   AND   RESEARCHERS
1. An individual who is a resident of a Contracting State immediately before making a visit to the other Contracting
State and who, at the invitation of any approved university, college, school, or other similar educational institution
or scientific  research institution, visits that other Contracting State for a period not exceeding two years from the
date of his arrival in that other Contracting State solely for the purpose of teaching or research or both at such
educational or research institution, shall be exempt from tax in that other Contracting State on any remuneration
derived from such teaching or research.
2. The term “approved” in paragraph I refers to the approval  given by the Contracting State in which the university,
college, school, or other similar educational institution or scientific research institution is situated.
3. This Article shall not apply to remuneration which a professor or teacher receives for conducting research if such
research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit of a specific person or persons.
Article 21
STUDENTS   AND   TRAINEES
1. Payments which a student,  apprentice, or business trainee who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting
State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned Contracting State  for the
purpose of his education or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education, or training shall not be
taxed in that Contracting State, provided that such payments arise from sources outside that Contracting State.
2.  An individual who is a resident of one of the Contracting States at the time he becomes temporarily present in the
other Contrating State and who is so present as an employee of or under contract with, a resident of the first-
mentioned Contracting State, or as a participant in a programme sponsored by the Government of the other
Contracting State or by any international organization for the primary purpose of -
(a) acquiring technical, professsional, or business experience from a person other than that resident of the first-
mentioned Contracting State or other than a person related to such resident ; or
(b) studying at a  university or other recognized educational institution in that other Contracting State.
shall be exempt from tax in that other Contracting State for a period not exceeding two years with respect to his
income from personal services.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
14A
Article  22
OTHER  INCOME
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of
this Agreement shall be taxable only in that Contracting State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business
in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other
Contracting State independent personal services from a fixed based situated therein, and the right or property in
respect of which the income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In
such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 and 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealt
with in the foregoing Articles of this Agreement and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that
other Contracting State.
Article 23
ELIMINATION   OF   DOUBLE   TAXATION
1.  Where a resident of a Contracting State derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement,
may be taxed in the other Contracting State, the first-mentioned Contacting State shall allow as a deduction from
the tax on the income of that resident an amount equal to the income tax paid in that other Contracting State. Such
deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the income tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which
is attributable to the income which may be taxed in that other Contracting State.
2. Where, in accordance with any provision of this Agreement, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State is
exempt from tax in that Contracting State, the Contracting State may be nevertheless, in calculating the amount of
tax on the remaining income of such resident, take into account the exempted income.
Article  24
NON-DISCRIMINATION
1. Nationals of a Contacting State shall not be subjected in the other  Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements
to which nationals of that other Contracting State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence,
are or may be subjected.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favorably levied in that other Contracting State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that
other Contracting State carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a
Contracting State to grant to residents of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, relief and reductions
for taxation purposes on account of civil status or family responsibilities which it grants to its own residents.
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 8 of Article 11,  paragraph 6 of Article 12,
apply, interest, royalties, fees for technical services and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting
State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such
enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned
Contracting State.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
15A
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly,
by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned Contracting
State to any taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation
and connected requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned Contracting State are or
may be subjected.
5. The provisions of this Article shall apply only to taxes which are covered by this Agreement.
Article  25
MUTUAL    AGREEMENT   PROCEDURE
1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by
the domestic law of those Contracting States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State
of which he is a resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 24, to that of the Contracting State of
which he is a national. The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action
resulting in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to
arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other
Contracting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation, which is not in accordance with this Agreement. Any
Agreement reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time - limits in the domestic law of the Contracting
States.
3. The competent authorities  of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs.
Article 26
EXCHANGE   OF   INFORMATION
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeably relevant for
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws
concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or  insofar as the
taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Agreement. The exchange of information is not restricted by Articles 1
and 2.
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner as
information obtained under the domestic laws of that Contracting State and shall be disclosed only to persons or
authorities (including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the
enforcement or prosecution in respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in
paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such
purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the
obligation:
(a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the
other Contracting State;
(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of
that or of the other Contracting State;

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
16A
(c) to supply information which would disclose and trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret
or trade process, or information the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall
use its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other Contracting
State may not need such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence
is subject to the limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting
State to decline to supply information solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.
5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply
information solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or  person acting
in an agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.
Article   27
ASSISTANCE   IN   THE   COLLECTION   OF   TAXES
1. The Contracting States undertake to lend assistance to each other in the collection of taxes covered by this
Agreement, together with interest, administrative penalties and fines of a non penal nature.
2. Request for assistance by a Contracting State in the collection of these taxes shall include a certification by the
competent authority of that Contracting State that, under the laws of that Contracting State, the said taxes have
been finally determined. For the purposes of this Article, a tax is, finally determined when a Contracting State has
the right under its internal law to collect the tax and the taxpayer has no further right to restrain collection.
3. Requests referred to in paragraph 2 shall be supported by an official copy of the instrument permitting the execution,
accompanies where appropriate, by an official copy of any final administrate or judicial decision.
4. The request of a Contracting State that has been accepted for collection by the other Contracting State shall be
fulfilled by this other Contracting State as though such request were related to its own tax.
5. With regard to tax claims which are open to appeal, the competent authority of a Contracting State may, in order to
safeguard its rights, request the competent authority of the other Contracting State to take the protective measures.
The request of the Contracting State that has been accepted shall be fulfilled by this other Contracting State as
throught such request were related to its own tax.
6. Amounts collected by competent authority of a Contracitng State pursuant to this Article shall be forwarded to the
competent authority of the other Contracting State. Except where the competent authorities of the Contracting
State otherwise agree, the ordinary expenses incurred in providing tax collection assistance shall be borne by the
requested Contracting State.
7. Nothing in this Article shall be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation :
(a) to carry out administrative measures at varinace with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the
other Contracting State;
(b) to carry out measures which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public);
(c) to provide assistance if the other Contracting State has not pursued all reasonable measures of collection,
available under its laws or administative practice;
(d) to provide assistance in those cases where the administrative burden for that Contracting State is clearly
disproportionate to the benefit to be derived by the other Contracting State.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'12'20
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA -20.12.2019
17A
Article   28
MEMBERS   OF    DIPLOMATIC   MISSIONS   AND   CONSULAR   POSTS
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under
the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article   29
ENTRY   INTO   FORCE
1. The Contracting States shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, that the procedures required
by its law for the entry into force of this Agreement have been  fulfilled. The Agreement shall enter into force on
the date of receipt of the later notification.
2. This Agreement shall have effect:
(a) in respect of taxes withheld at source, on amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of January of the
calendar year next following that in which the Agreement enters into force.
(b) in respect of other taxes, on income derived for any taxable year beginning on or after the first day of January
of the calendar year next following that in which the Agreement enters into force.
 Article 30
TERMINATION
This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by one of the Contracting States. Either Contracting State may
terminate the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving written notice of termination at least six months before
the end of any calendar year following after the period of five years from the date on which the Agreement enters into
force. In such event, the Agreement shall cease to have effect :
(a) in respect of taxes withheld at source, on amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of January of the
calendar year next following that in which the notice is given; and
(b) in respect of other taxes, on income derived for any taxable year beginning on or after the first day of January of
the calendar year next following that in which the notice is given.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, by  their respective Governments, have signed this
agreement.
Done at Colombo on  the 15 day of August 2018 corresponding to...............................day of........................14.................AH,
in two identical orginals each in the Arabic, Sinhala and English languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of
divergence between the texts, the English text shall prevail.
Hon. P
RASAD K ARIYAWASAM Hon. Dr. MAHMOOD AWAD AL HASSAN
Secretary of Foreign Affairs Acting Under Secretary of Diplomacy and
For the Government of the Democratic Chief Minister’s Department of Oman
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the Government of the Sultanate of Oman
01 - 221
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.