

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2446$34 - 2025 cQ,s ui 21 jeks i÷od - 2025.07.21
No. 2446/34  -  MONDAY,   JULY   21,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A - PG 7211 - 604 (07/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. D. B. 9/2016 (IV)
THE  NATIONAL  MEDICINES  REGULATORY  AUTHORITY  ACT, No.  5  of  2015
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Health and Mass Media under section 142 read with subsection (4) of section 
118 of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5 of 2015 in consultation with the Pricing Committee of 
National Medicines Regulatory Authority established under the aforementioned Act (in these regulations referred to as the 
“Authority”), Consumer Affairs Authority established under the provisions of the Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No. 9 of 
2003 and all stakeholders and taking into consideration all other relevant factors including the provisions of the Consumer 
Affairs Authority Act, No. 9 of 2003.
 Dr .
 NaliNda Jayatissa (M.P.),
 Minister of Health and Mass Media.
Colombo,
21st July, 2025.
Regulations
 1.  These regulations may be cited as the Medicines (Pricing Mechanism for Medicines) Regulations, No. 02 of 2025.
 2.   The pricing mechanism shall include the pricing mechanism for the Maximum Retail Price for an individual product 
(originator, brand or generic) (hereinafter referred to as MRP) and the pricing mechanism for the Maximum Ceiling 
Price for a dosage form and strength of a particular medicine or a particular group of medicines (hereinafter referred 
to as the MCP).
 3.  The Authority shall decide whether MRP or MCP is to be applied to regulate the price of a particular medicine.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.07.2025
2A
PART I
Pricing Mechanism for the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) 
 4.   The MRP shall be calculated according to the following formula –
   MRP = CIF+DT+SCTM
  MRP denotes the Maximum Retail Price (in local currency) of an individual product (originator, brand or generic);
  CIF denotes Cost, Insurance and Freight (in local currency);
  SCTM denotes Supply Chain Total Markup (in local currency);
  DT denotes Duties and Taxes paid to (in local currency)
 5.   It shall be lawful for the Authority to verify the Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF) value declared by an importer, 
using external and internal reference pricing approaches.
 6.  The average United States Dollar exchange (Selling) rate of the past three months, published by the Authority based 
on the exchange rate of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka shall be considered for the purpose of determining the MRP.
 7.  The duties and taxes shall be considered if any and may be represented as a percentage of Cost, Insurance and Freight 
(CIF) in Sri Lankan rupees.  
 8.  The Supply Chain Total Markup (SCTM) in Sri Lankan rupees shall be expressed as a percentage by CIF as follows: -
	 	 SCTM=	(β%	CIF)	
	 	 β%	may	be	expressed	either	as	a	single	value	(single	slab)	or	as	regressive	values	(multiple	slabs).	
 9. The Authority may review the MRP biannually:
	 	 Provided,	 however,	the	Authority	may	revise	the	MRP	when	there	is	a	fluctuation	of	the	exchange	rate	beyond	an	
accepted tolerance level which the Authority will consider necessary in the public interest.
 10. It shall be lawful for the Authority to recall MRPs issued based on market conditions as well as to improve access to 
the medicines and substitute them with a new MRP.
PART II 
Pricing Mechanism for the Maximum Ceiling Price (MCP) 
 11.   The MCP shall be determined by -
 (a) using an internationally recognized information portal for identifying the market share by value of different 
brands or generic versions of a particular medicine; 
 (b)  verifying retail prices of the relevant dosage form and strength of a particular medicine from retail pharmacies 
of different parts of the island and information provided by the State Pharmaceutical Corporation; and
 (c)  using Internal Reference Prices, External Reference Prices and Supply Chain Total Markup.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.07.2025
3A
 12.  The MCP shall be calculated according to the following statistical method - 
 (a)  arranging all the retail prices of all versions of brands and generics of a medicine of a particular dosage form 
and strength in such particular group of medicines including the originator of such medicine in such particular 
group of medicines having substantial market share by value determined by the Authority;  
 (b) upon the arrangement of retail prices as referred to in paragraph (a), the median retail price of such medicines 
shall be determined as below-
   (i) if the medicine has an odd number of all available versions of individual products (originator, brands, 
generic) (n), the median retail price of such medicines shall be considered as the value at position  
(n+1)/ 2; 
   (ii)  if the medicine has an even number of all available versions of individual products (originator, brands, 
generic) (n), the median retail price of such medicines shall be considered by averaging the values at 
positions n/2 and (n/2) +1; or
   (iii)  for the purpose of determining the median retail price of such medicines under sub paragraphs (i) and 
(ii) “n” shall be considered as the total number of all versions of individual products (originator, brands, 
generic) of that particular medicine cumulatively having the market share by value as referred to in 
paragraph (a).  
 13.  A person who sells a medicine shall not sell at a price higher than the MCP:
 14.  The MRPs of all branded or generic versions including the originator of an individual product determined by the 
Authority which are lower than the MCP shall not be increased.
 15.  Any new registration or reregistration of an individual product for which the MRP has not been determined previously, 
in the event of calculated MRP exceeding the MCP, the determined MRP for such product shall be the MCP.
 16.  Any new registration or reregistration of an individual product for which the MRP has not been determined previously, 
in the event of calculated MRP is less than the MCP, the determined MRP for such product shall be the MRP.
 17.  It shall be lawful for the Authority to revise the MCP issued based on market conditions as well as to improve access 
to medicines.
 18.  The Authority shall publish in the Gazette the MCP for a dosage form and strength of a particular group of medicines 
determined according to the pricing mechanism referred to in regulation 11.
 19.  The Authority shall, on the recommendation of the Pricing Committee of the Authority, consider explanatory notes 
and	specific	values	(including	beta	and	tolerance	level	for	exchange	rate	fluctuation)	applicable	to	the	pricing	
mechanism and issue guidelines to that effect.
 20.  Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations commit an offence and shall be triable under section 
131 of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5 of 2015.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.07.2025
4A
 21.  For the purpose of these regulations –
		 “brand”	means	a	name,	term,	design,	symbol,	trademark	or	any	other	feature	that	identifies	one	product	licence	
holder’s medicine as distinct from those of other product licence holders;
  “market share by value” means the ratio of domestic sales in value on the basis of moving the annual turnover of 
a brand or a generic version of a medicine in a calendar year and the sum of the total domestic value in the 
Calendar year of all brands and generic versions of such medicine sold in the domestic market having the 
same strength and dosage form; and 
  “retail price” means the ceiling price or the retail price including taxes and duties as applicable, at which the drug 
shall be sold to the ultimate consumer and where such price is mentioned on the pack.
 22. The medicines (Pricing Mechanism for determination of maximum retail price for a dosage form and a strength 
of a particular medicine) Regulations, No. 01 of 2024 published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2390/18 of June 
28, 2024 and the Medicines (Pricing Mechanism for Medicines) Regulations No. 01 of 2025 Published in Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 2429/12 of March 25, 2025 are hereby rescinded without prejudice to anything previously duly 
done thereunder.
EOG 07 - 0280
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.