

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
CHAMBER OF CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY OF
SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 152]
————————
Presented by Hon. (Prof.) Ashu Marasinghe , M. P.
 on 30th November, 2016
(Published in the Gazette on November 15, 2016)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Chamber of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2dp
2-
————————

<!-- page 2 -->

1Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Preamble.
5
10
15
20
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CHAMBER OF CONSTRUCTION
INDUSTRY OF SRI LANKA
WHEREAS an Chamber called and known as the “Chamber
of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka ” has heretofore been
formed for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and transacting all matters connected with the said Chamber
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Chamber has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Chamber of Construction
Industry of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many person as now are members of the
Chamber of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka (hereinafter
referred to as the “Chamber”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be
a body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the " Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and
by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Chamber is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to take over the activities and operations and assets
and liabilties of the Chamber of Construction
Incorporation
of the
Chamber of
Construction
Industry of
Sri Lanka.
Short title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
Industreis of Sri Lanka which is incorporated on
25th  March, 2003 under section 21 of the companies
Act of 1982 and thererafter re-registered on 3rd
September, 2008 under the Companies Act, No. 7
of 2007;
(b) to promote and protect the National Construction
Industry, represent its interest and express the
opinion of those engaged in Construction
activities;
(c) to serve as a specialized body for the National
Construction Industry for consultation by national,
statutory and legislative bodies on issues of
national significance;
(d) to stimulate the development of the National
Construction Industry and cause it to be recognized
by the state authorities at all times;
(e) to provide a forum for the National Construction
Industry to study issues of national significance
and making recommendations for their
implementation through the State;
(f) to establish panels of Professional in the National
Construction Industry and to evaluate and issue
reports and certificates on projects and also in the
resolution of dispute arising thereof which whilst
helping the Members will also contribute to the
funds of the Chamber;
(g) to establish utilizing its own resources or through
external funding Scholarships / Fellowships that
would contribute to the development of National
Construction Industry and also help those who
intend to follow careers in the Construction
Industry. The Chamber will also act as trustee.
Custodian, Trustees or Managers to funds
subscribed or donated for such purpose. It will also
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
undertake to execute any Trusts which are in
consonance with the other objects of the Chamber
desirable and either gratuitously or otherwise;
(h) to conduct training and examinations in respect of
industry related courses and issue Certificates
thereon;
(i) to act as a Centre for Recruitment of staff for firms
in the National Construction Industry; and
(j) to establish as a subsidiary arm of the Chamber a
body or bodies that will focus on securing local
and overseas contracts for its Members and to
empower such subsidiary arms to conduct any
activity or services to attain its aims.
4. (1) The Management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall, subject to the provision of this Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vested in a Board of Management (hereinafter referred to as
the “Board”) consisting of Secretary-General and the office
bearers and such other persons as may be provided for in
such rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of  the Foundation holding office on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
(3)  Holding office be in  accordance to the rules made by
the Corporation.
5. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary of desirable for the furtherance
of its objects or any one of them, including the power to
open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise
money with or without security, to receive or collect grants
Management
of the  affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
4
Fund of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
or donations, to invest its funds, to erect any building or
structure on any land held by the Corporation, and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time, at any general meeting or special meeting and  by
the votes of majority of the members present and voting, to
make rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or
any other written law, for the management of the Corporation
and to achieve its general objects. Such rules made by the
Corporation may be amended, altered, added to or rescinded
at a like meeting and in like manner.
(2) The rules of the Chamber in force on the day preceding
to date of commencement of this Act, shall in so  far as they
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, be deemed to be rules of the Corporation
made under this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. The Corporation shall be able and capable to collect
such membership fee, contribution, fine, donation and
enrolment fee or any other fees that it feel deem fit from its
members.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
30
Rules of the
Corporation.
The authority
to collect
fees and
moneys.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(3) The Moneys and property of the Corporation however,
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of its
objects as set forth herein, and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred, directly or indirectly, by way of dividend,
loan, bonus or otherwise, howsoever, by way of profit, to the
members of the Corporation.
9. The Corporations shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of any subscription payable by him
to the Corporation.
11. All debts and liabilities of the Chamber existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Chamber on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act. If upon the dissolution of the
Corporation there remains after the satisfaction of all its
debts and liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property
shall not be distributed among the members of the
Corporation but shall be given or transferred to some other
institute or institutes having objects similar to those of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such institution or institutions shall be
determined by the Board at or immediately before the
dissolution of the Corporation.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation
and propery
remaining on
dissolution.
35

<!-- page 7 -->

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
6
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
from 01 April to 31 March of the following year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
 In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the council
of such Institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the council
of such Institutes.
13. The Moneys and property of the Corporation
however, derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of its objects as set forth herein, and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly, by
way of dividend, loan, bonus or otherwise, howsoever, by
way of profit, to the members of the Corporation.
Provided however, that the provision of this section shall
not prohibit—
(a) the payment, in good faith, of reasonable and proper
remuneration to any officer or servants of the
Corporation for any services rendered by him to the
Corporation;
Accounts and
Audit.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Corporation
to be a non
profit
making
organization.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(b) the payment of reasonable and proper rent for
premises let to the Corporation or by any company
of which a member of the Corporation is a
shareholder; and
(c) the reimbursement or repayment of reasonable and
proper expenses incurred, with the prior approval of
the Board of Management, by any member, officer
or servant of the Corporation in the discharge or
performance of his functions or duties or in
promoting the objects of the Corporation.
14. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of either
the Cheif Executive Officer or Secretary-General who shall
sign their names on the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate,
or of any other persons, except such as are mentioned in this
Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 9 -->

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .