

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2013
1A
My No.: Cl/585.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Associated Motorways (Private) Ltd, No. 185, Union Place,  Colombo 02 of the one part
and The Sri Lankave Freedom General Workers' Union, No. 39, Mangala Mawatha, Kaluthara (North) of the other part on 11th day of
February 2013  is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enact ments of
Ceylon ,  (Revised Edition 1956).
V . B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
23rd May, 2013.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1817$06 – 2013 cQ,s 01 jeks i÷od – 2013'07'01
No. 1817/06 – MONDAY, JULY 01, 2013
1A – G17872 – 325(2013/07)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2013
Collective Agreement No. 08 of 2013
COLLECTIVE   AGREEMENT 2013
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made and entered on this 11th Day of February, Two Thousand and Thirteen to take effect
from the First Day of January, Two Thousand and Thirteen, pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act. between the ASSOCIATED
MOTORWAYS (PRIV ATE) LTD. a company duly registered in Sri lanka under the Companies Ordinance and having its registered office
at No. 185, Union Place, Colombo 2 (hereinafter referred to as "the Employer")  and THE SRI LANKA VE FREEDOM GENERAL
WORKERS' UNION, a trade Union duly registered under  Trade Unions Ordinance (No. 5863) and having its registered office at No. 39,
Mangala Mawatha, Kalutara (North), (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Union’’) of the other part.
WITNESSETH AND IT IS HEREBY AGREED BETWEEN THE PARTIES AS FOLLOWS:
Title : This Collective Agreement shall be known and referred to as the collective agreement 2013 between the Associated Motorways
(Private) Ltd.  and the Sri Lankave Freedom General Workers' Union.
1. Parties Covered and Bound.– This Collective Agreement shall cover and bind the Associated Motorways (Private) Ltd. (the
Employer) in relation to persons employed at its establishments in Kalutara and Anuradhapura, on permanent monthly contracts of
employment, in the manual grades in respect of production and engineering categories, the Union namely the Sri Lankave Freedom General
Workers' Union, (the Union)  and its members employed by the Employer in the said categories of employment as at the date of signing this
Agreement and thereafter.
2. Earlier Collective Agreement.–  This Agreement shall supersede the Collective Agreement No. 45 of 2010
entered into between the parties on 12th April, 2010 and the said  Collective Agreement  of 2010 shall stand repudiated between
the parties.
3. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Collective Agreement   shall  be effective from the 1st day of January 2013 and shall
continue  to be in force unless it is terminated by either party given six months notice in writing to the other, provided however, that no such
notice shall be given by either party, prior to the 30th day of June, Two thousand and fifteen and this  Collective Agreement  shall not stand
terminated until  the 31st day of December, Two Thousand and Fifteen. Any notice of termination given by a party prior to  the 30th day
of June, Two Thousand and Fifteen  shall have no effect whatsoever.
4. Hours of Work and Overtime.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement  the normal working hours shall be deemed to
be those that are worked by the employees  as at present. As and when requested by the Employer, the employees shall work reaso nable
overtime, for which the employees shall be paid overtime as stipulated by law.
5. Salaries.– (i) With effect from the 1st day of January, Two Thousand and Thirteen, the monthly salaries applicable to each
employee as at December 2012 shall be increased by Rs. 2,350/-.
(ii) W ith effect from the 1st day of January, Two Thousand and Fourteen, the monthly salaries applicable to each employee as
at December 2013 shall be increased by Rs. 2,400/-.
(iii) W ith effect from the first day of January, Two Thousand and Fifteen, the monthly salaries applicable to each employee as
at December 2014 shall be increased by Rs. 2,250/-.
6. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement, the Government of Sri Lanka.– ( a) Prescribes in any year, increases in
salary by any written law applicable to categories of employees covered by this Agreement, the Employer shall be entitled to take
credit for the salary increases granted to an employee in respect of such year in terms of Clause 5 hereof and determine the
increase, if any, that is to be granted to an employee accordingly.
(b) Recommends increases in salaries, such recommendation will not be applicable to the Employer regardless of whether or not
such recommendation is applicable to the categories of employees covered by this Agreement.
7. Attendance Incentive.– As agreed by parties, the eligibility criteria in respect of the new amalgamated attendance incentive,
which comprises of the former,
(a) Reward for Good Attendance,
(b) Attendance Bonus and
(c) Attendance Allowance shall be as follows:

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2013
3A
(i) Reward for Good Attendance Rs. 1250/-
(ii) Attendance Bonus Rs. 450/- and
(iii) Attendance Allowance: Basic salary / 52* × No. of Sundays on a particular month (in calculating the rupee equivalent of
item number 3 set out above, it will be calculated as ‘‘New Basic Salary’’ / 52 Weeks × 4.3 Weeks’’).
(iv) Rs. 500/- new addition.
Formula for calculating the attendance incentive shall be as follows:
Total Allowance = Rs. 1250 + Rs. 450 + Basic Salary (revised salary as at 1.1.2013) divided by 52 weeks, times 4.3
weeks, plus Rs. 500/.
The above total amount per month will be fixed as a single payment and will be made subject to the conditions stipulated
below based on which deductions would be made from the total amount eligible.
Up to 2 1/2 days of authorized absence = 100%
Up to 3 days of authorized absence = Total × 60%
Up to 3 1/2 days of authorized absence = Total × 40%
Over 3 1/2 days of authorized absence or any unauthorized absence - No Paymet.
Unauthorized leave (No Pay)  = No Payment.
8. Payment of Bonuses.– Parties agree that henceforth bonuses, if any, shall be paid at the discretion of the management based on
a combination of the following factors:
(a) Performance of the Employee;
(b) Performance of the business unit;
(c) Performance of AMW Group as a whole;
9. Minimum Levels of Production.– The Union and the employees agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force
of this Agreement the employees of the Employer covered under this Agreement shall maintain minimum production levels as set out in the
first Schedule hereto, in the factories of the Employer. These minimum production levels, however, shall be liable to review depending on
operational requirements.
10. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an employee on disciplinary grounds, then–
(a) regardless of whether an employee has been suspended or not, the employee shall be furnished with a ‘show cause’ notice
setting out the misconduct alleged against him.
(b) the employee shall  be required to submit his written explanation to the ‘show cause’ notice within 5 clear working days. The
employee may, however, if he so requires, seek an extension of time to submit his explanation and the Employer may at its
discretion grant such extension of time as deemed appropriate,
(c) on receipt of the employee’s written explanation, the Employer shall conduct a domestic disciplinary inquiry into the alleged
misconduct,
(d) after the conclusion of the domestic inquiry, the employee shall be informed in writing of the findings of the said inquiry and
the punishment, if any, that has been imposed,
(e) the Employer shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in terms of sub-clause (c) above, where the employee has
admitted the acts of misconduct alleged against him, or follow the disciplinary action procedure in terms hereof where the
employee shall only be warned in respect of an act of misconduct,
(f) the services of an employee may be suspended without pay by the Employer pending disciplinary action or by way of
punishment on the findings of a domestic disciplinary inquiry.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2013
11. V ariation of Terms and Conditions.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement, neither party shall seek or attempt to
vary, alter or change any of the terms and conditions contained herein and / or terms and conditios or other benefits applicable to employees
as at the date of signing this Agreement, other than by way of mutual agreement between the parties.
12. Dispute Settlement Procedure.– ( a) In the event of any dispute that shall arise between the parties during the continuance in
force of this Agreement, of matters not covered by the agreement, the branch of the Union in the Employer’s establishment shall
raise such dispute with the Factory Management of the Employer and the parties shall take all efforts to resolve such disputes
amicably.
(b) If no settlement of the dispute can be reached between the parties, the branch of the Union may request the Union to raise
the matter in dispute with the Employer and / or with the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon and the Union, the Employers
and the Federation shall thereafter take all possible steps to resolve the dispute.
(c) Failing a settlement of the dispute as provided in the preceding sub-clause the Union may raise the dispute with the
Department of Labour and move to have the dispute resolved under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.
13. Trade Union Action .– The Union and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement undertake that they shall
not during the continuance of this Agreement attempt to seek to vary, in any manner, any of the terms and conditions agreed upon herein
and shall not resort to any form of Trade Union action in relation to any dispute connected with or arising out of any matter c overed
by this Agreement.
14. Union Committee Meetings.– The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the branch committee of the Union:
1. In respect of each meeting the branch committee desires to hold in the Company premises, an application shall be made to
the Employer at least 36 hours prior to the date of the meeting.
2. If the Employer decides to grant permission to hold such meeting, the Employer may upon a written request of the branch
union, permit a representative of the Union (Parent Union) to attend such branch committee meeting provided, however,
that the branch union shall not make such requests on more than 4 occasions during one year.
3. The Employer may also impose any other condition they desire fit subject to which such branch committee meeting shall
be conducted.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2013
5A


<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2013


<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2013
7A


<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'01
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2013
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
07 - 413