

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2237$15 – 2021 cQ,s 20 jeks w`.yrejdod – 2021'07'20
2237/15 – TUESDAY, JULY 20, 2021
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 34689 – 38 (2021/07)
My No: CI/1791
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131   
     
The Collective Agreement entered into between Ceytra (Pvt) Ltd, No. 36, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha, Colombo 10 of the 
one part and the Inter Company Employees Union, No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatte, Talangama of the other part on 
19th March 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of t he Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative 
Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, 
Colombo 05.
30th day of April, 2021.
Collective Agrement No. 08 of  2021
CEYTRA (PVT) LIMITED COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT 2020 -2022
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made under THE  INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT this 19th day of March Two 
Thousand and Twenty to take eﬀ ect from the First Day of January Two Thousand and Twenty.
Between

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 2A
CEYTRA (PRIV ATE) LIMITED, a company having it's Registered Oﬃ   ce at 36, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha, 
Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as  ''THE EMPLOYER") of the ONE PART and INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES' 
UNION, a Trade Union duly registered under the Trade Unions' Ordinance, and having it's Registered Oﬃ  ce at 259/9, Sethsiri 
Mawatha, Koswatta, Thalangama, (Hereinafter referred to as ''THE UNION'')  of  THE OTHER.PART.
Witnesseth, and it is hereby agreed between the parties referred to above, as follows:
TITLE
This Agreement shall be know and referred to as 'THE CEYTRA MANUAL WORKERS' COLLECTIVE 
AGREEMENT OF 2020. 
PART I
 1. PERSONS COVERED AND BOUND
  This agreement shall cover and bind the employer, the union a nd all Manual workers who are members of the union and 
are employed on permanent contracts of employment.
 2. DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION
  This agreement will be eﬀ  ective from the ﬁ rst day of January two thousand and twenty, and shall thereafter continue in 
force until it is determined by either party giving one month's notice in writing to the other, subject to the provision that 
one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party to commence before the ﬁ rst day of December two thousand 
and twenty two and such notice shall not expire before the thirty ﬁ rst day of December two thousand and twenty two.
 3 . EARLIER AGREEMENT
  This agreement shall supercede and replace the provisions of the ceytra manual workers' collective agreement 2017.
 4 . GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
  During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms a nd conditions of the Agreement shall deem to be included 
in each Contract of Service between the Employer and the employee covered and bound by this Agreement, whether 
such contract of service be written or oral which was subsisting on the date hereof or  which shall come into being any 
time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this agreement.
 5. MANAGEMENT  UNION CO-OPERATION
  i. The Union and Employees agree that the following matters a re the rights and of the Management.
   Selecion, placement, deployment, transfer and promotion, det ermination of shifts and working hours; Planning and 
controlling of the operations; Introducing new products or machinery; Up-grading of existing facilities; Change of 
production methods and systems; Expansion or relocation of production facilities; Establishment of quality standards 
and production norms; Maintenance and improvement of productivity/ eﬃ  ciency and the consequences thereof and 
maintenance of displine in the work place.
  ii. The Union and Employees will co-operate with the Employer  in the aforesaid matters.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 3A
  iii. Without prejudice to the Employer's rights in this regar d, the Employer will discuss the aforesaid matters with the 
Union if latter so desires.
 6. MOBILITY OF LABOUR AND PRODUCTIVITY
  i. Employees will work to machine capacity in order to achiev e optimum productivity.
  ii. If at the factory, Store, mill  or job, work is temporari ly not available for an employee(Male or Female) in his/ her 
occupation, he/she will deem to be ready and willing to perform work within his/her capacity or skill in any other 
occupation where work is available.
  iii. Employees will carry out any ancillary work such as clea ning of machines, cleaning of work areas, cleaning of 
equipment/ tools used in day to day work.
 7. WORKING HOURS
  i. Normal working hours will not exceed :
 (a) Forty ﬁ  ve hours per week,
 (b) Nine Hours on ﬁ  ve days of a week inclusive of one hour interval.
 (c) Six hours on the sixth day inclusive of one hour interval.
  ii. An employee will not cease work until the designated oﬃ   cial closing time except during designated intervals.
 8. PROBATION
   Every employee recruited by the Employer will serve a period  of probation of one (01) year. The period of probation 
may be extended. During the period of probation or extended probation, the Employer will be entitled to terminate 
the services of the Employee without notice.
 9. OVERTIME
  i. If required by the Employer, an Employee will work reasona ble period of overtime authorized by the Employer. 
Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation acceptable to the Employer will 
render the Employee liable to disciplinary action.
  ii. Work in excess of normal working hours will be remunerate d ar one and a half times the normal hourly rate.
 10. A TTENDANCE
  i. Unless otherwise speciﬁ  cally instructed by the Employer, an Employee will present himself/herself for work on evey 
day (other than a holiday or on a day he/she is on approved leave) at the usual starting time of the factory, store mill 
and will remain available for work throughout the normal working hours.
  ii. Irregular attendance or unpunctuality will constitute mis conduct in respect of which an employee will be liable for 
disciplinary action.
 11. LEA VE AND STATUTORY AND WEEKLY HOLIDAYS
  i. Annual leave

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 4A
   Annual leave will be computed in accordance with the decisio ns of the wages Board for the Rubber and Plastic Goods 
manufacturing Trade. Annual Leave may be taken on days mutually convenient with prior approval.
  ii. Casual leave
   In respect of each year of employment during which an employ ee has been continuously in employment he/she will 
be entitled to take a private business or other reasonable cause including ill-health, if his/her entitlement of sick leave 
has been fully utilized, 7 days, Casual Leave with pay, provided however, that not more than 2 days Casual leave will 
be taken at any one time, except on grounds of ill health. Casual leave will not be granted immediately proceeding 
or immediately following any period of Annual Leave. In respect of the ﬁ rst year of employment an employee will 
be entitled to Casual Leave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each completed period of 2 months 
service. An year of employment will mean the period January to December. Casual Leave will normally be granted 
on prior application without the Employee being required to state reason for the application. Where the Employer 
ﬁ nds it diﬃ  cult to grant leave, the diﬃ  culty will be noticed to the Employee as soon as posible after the application 
is made. If due to unforeseen circumstances, the employee is unable to make prior application, and is also unable to 
report for work, the employee must endeavour as far as practicable to inform the Employer on the very same day of 
his inability to attend work. If no information is received and the reasons for failure to notify are also unsatisfactory, 
the employer is entitled to refuse an application made subsequent to the absence.
  iii. Sick leave
   An employee who has or completed 5 (ﬁ  ve) years of service will be entitled to 14 (fourteen) days sick leave per 
calendar year and other employees will be entitled to seven (7) days sick leave per calendar year provided;
 ( a) Absence on grounds of ill-health is supported by a Medical Certiﬁ cate from a registered Medical Practitioner, 
acceptable to the Management.
 ( b) The employee informs the employer his inability to attend work  on the very same day of absence by 
telegram, telephone or any other means.
 ( c) An employee who has been on probation will as from the date of conﬁ rnation and in respect of the remainder 
of the year be entitled to sick leave pro-rata to the number of months in employment in that year.
  iv. Statutory holidays
 ( a) Weekly Holidays and Statutory Holidays will be granted in acco rdance with the provisions in the Wages 
Board for Rubber & Plastic Goods manufacturing Trade.
 ( b) An employee may be called upon to work on any weekly or statut ory holiday and such work will be 
remunerated in accordance with the provisions in the Wages Boar d for Rubber and Plastic Goods 
Manufacturing Trade.
 12. MONTHLY CONSOLIDATED WAGES FROM  01/01/2020 TO 31/12/2022 
     The Employer agrees to revise the wages of permanent employees covered and bound by this agreement in the 
following manner.
 i. All permanent employees will be entitiled to a wage increas e of 10% for the ﬁ rst year commencing from 
01/01/2020 to 31/12/2020.
 ii. In order to recognize the seniority of employees a service  increment of Rs. 50/- per employee/per year will 
be paid based on the number of completed years service up to 31st December 2019. This wage adjustment 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 5A
will be made as once and for all payment in January 2020 and the revised basic salaries under this clause 
will be eﬀ ective from 1st January 2020. This will not in any way be cons idered a continuing practice or 
payment.
 iii. All parmanent employees will be entitled to a wage increase of 10% for the 2nd year commencing from 
01/01/2021 to 31/12/2021.
 iv. All permanent employees will be entitled to a wage increas e of 10% for the 3rd year commencing from 
01/01/2022 to 31/12/2022.
 v. During the pendency of this Agreement, the minimum wages un der the Wages Board for the Rubber and Plastic 
Goods Manufacturing Trade are revised or a wage increase is prescribed by law then such increase will be 
limited to the shortfall in the quantum of the wages received by an employee at the date and the quantum 
of increase, so prescribed.
 vi. There will be a change in the grades of employees and the four grades will remain unaltered i.e. Grade I - 
Unskilled, Grade II - Semi skilled, Grade III - Skilled and Special Grade. Criteria for selection/promotion 
from one grade to another will be solely determined by the Management. However, an aggrieved employee 
may seek redress under the grievance settlement procedure in Part II Clause 4 of this Agreement.
 13. SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
   Each employee required to do a work shift on any working day which commence at 1400 hours or later shall be paid 
a shift diﬀ erential as follows.
 All permenent employees will be entitled to shift diﬀ  erential of Rs. 160/- commencing from 01/01/2020 to 31/12/2022.
 14. ATTENDANCE BONUS
  The employer will pay in each succeeding month an Attendance Bo nus computed as follows for the period from 
01.01.2020 to 31.12.2022.
 ( a) No. of days present at work Rate per day
 01-19 Nil
 20-22 Rs. 70/-
 23-24 Rs. 83/-
 25 or present on all working days of the month Rs. 100/-
 ( b) This payment will not attract consequential beneﬁ  ts
 ( c) Only full working days are counted 
 ( d) Number of work days on public holidays, Weekly holidays or po ya days are not counted as days worked.
 ( e) Absence on sick leave approved on account of a factory accide nt or duty leave will be counted as ''present".
 15. PRODUCTION BONUS
  The employer will pay in each succeeding month a "Daily Production Incentive'' computed as follows:-

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 6A
 i. Daily rated monthly Production Bonus
 a. Moulded Rubber Production, Sorting and Packing Section
 a.i Normal Production Bonus - Daily
  For all employees, Daily Production Bonus as follows:
  8 hours shift X* 0.025/2*Q
  12 hours shift X* 0.025*Q
  X is the monthly - consolidated basic salary
  Q is the percentage of salable quantity
 a-ii Additional Production Bonus - monthly
  Proposed to pay based on the following production of saleable  quantities.
  In excess of 25 MT salable quantity will pay at Rs. 100/=
  per month for each additional 1.0 MT per employee
  during enforcement of this agreement.
 b. Chemical and Raw Material Weighing Section
  Similar to (a) Moulded products Production, sorting and Packi ng Section with the same 'Q' factor.
 c. Compounding
  Similar to (a) Moulded products Production, Sorting and Packi ng Sections with the Same 'Q' factor.
 ii. Daily Productiion Norms
  For Moulded Rubber Production and Calendaring Section
 Daily Production Norms will be displayed  in the Notice Board for the information of the employees
 iii. Employees in Sections not directly Involved in Production
 Normal Production Bonus - 8 hours 0.0125*x *Q
                                   - 10 hours 0.0177* x *Q
 16. MEDICAL EXPENSES REIMBURSEMENT SCHEME
  The Medical Expenses Reimbursement Scheme in respecct of employees covered and bound by this Agreement will 
be as follows.
  The limit of reimbursement per calendar year per employee wil l not exceed Rs. 12,000/=, Rs. 14,000/= and Rs. 
16,000/= for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022 eﬀ ective during the enforcement of this agreement.
 17. SALARY ADV ANCES
17.1 Festival Advance

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 7A
 i. The Company will grant an interest free Festival Advance to  employees covered by this Agreement 
equivalent to maximum of a month's salary (rounded to the nearest Rs. 100/=) subject to the following 
terms and conditions.
 ii. The festival Advance may be recovered in 10 monthly instal lments through the payroll.
 iii.  The festival Advance may be withheld for disciplinary re asons or for breach of contractual obligations
 iv. Employees shall have the option to obtain the Festival Adv ance in either March or December of each 
year.
17.2 General Purpose Advance
 i The Company will grant an interest freee General Purpose Adv ance of Rs. 16,000/=, for the years 
2020, 2021 and 2022 respectively to employees with over 5 years of service subject to the following 
terms and conditions.
 ii. The General Purpose Advance will be recovered in 10 monthl y installments through the payroll.
 iii. The General Purpose Advance may be withheld for disciplin ary reasons or for breach of contractual 
obligations.
 iv. The Procedure for  application and grant the General Purpo se Advance will be drawn up by the 
Management and made known to the Union.
 18. EXCURSION ALLOWANCE AND ADV ANCE
  i. An excursion allowance of Rs. 5,000/= will be paid to each  employee who has more than 1 years' service in January 
of each years 2020, 2021 and 2022 respectively.
  ii.  In addition, each employee, who has more than 1 years' service will be paid in January of each year as excursion 
advance of:
   Rs. 5,000/= for the 1st year of this Agreement
   Rs. 5,000/= for the 2nd year of this Agreement
  Rs. 5,000/= for the 3rd year of this Agreement
  iii.  The excursion advance will be recovered in 10 monthly i nstallments from the payroll.
  iv.  The excursion advance may be withheld for breach of cont ractual obligations.
  v.  The procedure for application and grant of the excursion allowance and advance will be drawn up by the management 
and made know to the union.
 19. SUSPENSION
  i.  An employee may be suspended from work without pay pendin g disciplinary action being taken against him on 
misconduct which is serious enough to warrant termination of services.
  ii.  An emplyee may be suspended from work without pay as a p unishment for misconduct, after due inquiry, for a 
reasonable period of time.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 8A
 20. W ARNINGS
  If in the opinion of the Employer an oﬀ ence warrants a warning, the same will be conveyed to the employee by a letter.
21.  RETIREMENT
  Upon reaching the age of 55 years, an employee will ipso facto retire and cease to be employed thereafter. There will 
be no obligation on the employer to give notice of retirement.
 22. SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES AND TRADE UNION ACTION
  i.  During the operation of this agreeement, any dispute aris ing from matters relating to this agreement or any dispute 
arising from matters not covered by this Agreement will be resolved through discussion and without resorting to 
any strike, go-slow, boycott, demonstration or restriction of overtime or any other form of Trade union action.
  ii.  In the ﬁ  rst instance, the Branch union will discuss the matters in dispute with the Management.
  iii. If no settlement is possible, the matters in dispute wil l be discussed between the parent union and the management 
under the aegis of the employers' Federation of Ceylon.
  iv. If all such discussions fail, the matters in dispute may be referred to the Commissioner of Labour for conciliation.
  v. If the matters in dispute are not resolved through concili ation, then the dispute may be referred to V oluntary 
Arbitration.
  vi. Nominating an Arbitrator and terms of reference will be a greed upon mutually by the union and the employer. If 
mutual agreement is not possible, the Commissioner of labour will name the Arbitrator and the terms of  Reference.
  vii. Provided however, that disciplinary action taken against  an employee will not be a dispute within the meaning of 
this sub-clause for the purpose of voluntary arbitration.
  viii. On any dispute which involves the interpretation of thi s Agreement, the decision of  the Commissioner of labour 
will be ﬁ nal and binding on both parties.
23.  FORFEITURE OF WAGES
  Unless for good cause shown to the employer's satisfaction, an Employee fails to hold himself/herself availabel for work 
throughout the normal working hours on each working day he/she and the employer will be entitled to deduct from his/her 
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until the time at which he is again available for work.
24.  PROFIT SHARING BONUS SCHEME
  i. The company will allocate 10% of the pre-tax proﬁ  t for the ﬁ nancial year for distribution among all permanent 
employees in the company as a ''proﬁ t sharing Bonus.
  ii. Audited acccounts will be acccepted by both parties in de terminning the quantum of pretax proﬁ t each year. The 
ﬁ nancial year of the company is 1st April to 31st March.
  iii. The proﬁ  t Sharing Bonus will be paid to employees in two (2) installments.
  ( a)  an amount equivalent to one month's salary will be paid in N ovember each year as an advance.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 9A
  ( b) The ﬁ  nal net balance payment (after deducting the advance paid in (a) above) as computed in acccordance 
with (iv) below will be made in july, by which time the audited accounts will be available.
  ( c)  If there is no ﬁ  nal payment due, the advance paid in (a) above will be written oﬀ  and not recovered from 
the employees
  iv The ﬁ  nal net balance payable expressed in number of months salary will be determined as follows.
  ( a) 10% of Pre-tax proﬁ  t  minus 1 (one) = Number of months.
     (Proﬁ  t ratio)
     *Av. Monthly wage bill for the ﬁ  nancial year.
  ( b)  *Consolidated salary X proﬁ  t Ratio = individual Proﬁ t share of emploees.
    (*Salary on which provident fund is calculated)
  i. 5% of the individual proﬁ  t share will be reduced for each day of absence without pay. there will be no grace period 
on absence. The Management reserves to itself the right to make this reduction either from the advance payment 
made in December or from the ﬁ nal payment made in April.
  ii. Recipients of the Proﬁ  t sharing scheme will be as follows:
  
 ( a) Permanent employees i.e. Manual workers (excepting Casual/Temporary empoyees), who have been in 
employment during the full ﬁ nancial year in respect of which the share is paid and who are in employment 
at the time the share is paid.
 ( b)  Permanent employees who have been in employment for only par t of the ﬁ nancial year in respect of 
which the share is paid and who are in employment at the time t he share is paid. such employees will 
receive a share proporionate to the number of complete months in service during the ﬁ nancial year.
25.  V ARIATION OF TERMS & CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT OR BENEFITS
  In the event of any conﬂ  ict or inconsistency between the matters provided for in this agreement and any   
 pre-existing terms or practices, the terms of this agreement shall prevail during the continuance in force   
 of this Agreement, the Union and it's memberes and the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or add to all   
 or any of the terms and conditions of employment.
 
CONTAINING FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED 
BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
 1.  BREACHES OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
  If in the opinion of the employer and the Employer's Federati on of Ceylon, the Union or it's members have committed 
a breach of the Agreement, the Union will cease to be enitled t o enjoy the facilities and concessions granted in the 
succeeding clauses of this Part and such facilities and concess ions will stand withdrawn without prejudice to the 
Employer's right to restore them upon such terms and conditions as it may determine.
2.  DUTY LEA VE
  The following provisios shall apply to duty leave:

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 10A
  Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to g rant permission, the Employer will generally grant 
permission for not more than three oﬃ  ce bearers of the Union.
 ( a) to be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employers' Federation of Ceylon or 
the Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Employer and the Union.
         o r
 ( b) to attend inquires before Industrial court.  Arbitrations or Labour Tribunal,
 ( c) to attend meeetings of the parent Union on not more than two occasions per year without loss of wages for 
such absence.
3.  CHECK OFF
  i. Subject to clause (1) hereof, the E mployer on a written r equest from an employee covered and bound by this 
Agreeement, will deduct from the wage due to such employee, the curent monthly union dues to be payable monthly 
by the Employee to the Union.
  ii. The employer will remit the amount so deducted to the uni on within the month following such deduction.
  iii. Request for deduction of Union dues must be made in writ ing referred to as the Authorization From, set out in the 
First Schedule hereto.
  iv. Every employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreemen t to check-oﬀ  at any time by signing and submitting 
the Revocation From, set out in the second schedule.
4.  GRIEV ANCE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURE
  i. Where an employee wishes to make representation in respect  of a grievance or dispute or any other matter, such 
employee, in the ﬁ rst instance, shall discuss the matter with the Factory Management.
  ii. If the matter, in the opinion of the employee, is not satisfactori ly resolved, the employee together with a 
Representative of the Brach Union will discuss the mattter with the Chief Operating Oﬃ  cer of the Company.
  iii. If the matter is still not resolved, the Parent Union wi ll make representations to the Employers' Federation of 
Ceylon, and discuss the matter with a view to arriving at a reasonable settlement.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 11A
THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
AUTHORIZATION
 As I am an employee covered and bound by the Ceytra (Pvt) Limi ted Manual Workers' Collective agreement of 2020, I 
desire to avail myself of the facility for the check-oﬀ   contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a 
member of the INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES UNION.
 Please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees (Rs    ) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to 
the said Union and remit the same to the said union on my behal f. The ﬁ rst payment should be made from wage next due 
immediately following the date hereof.
  DATE OF SIGNATURE  SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
     FULL NAME OF EMPLOYEE
THE SECOND SCHEDULE 
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cea se to deduct from my wages any further membership dues 
in favour of Inter Company Employees Union with eﬀ ect from the wages due next to me immediately following the date 
hereof.
   DATE OF SIGNATURE  SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
     FULL NAME OF EMPLOYEE
RECEIVED ON
.........................................................................................................................................
To be ﬁ lled by Employer
.................................................... ........... .........................................
...............................................................
.................................................... ....................................................
...............................................................

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 12A
ANNEXUME I
SCHEDULE IV
WORKING TARGETS
Weighing room
 Compounding Section
 0.000 - 1.000 20  36
 1.001 - 2.500 22  32
 2.501 - 3.500 27  26
 3.501 - 7.500 28  25
 7.501 - 12.500 30  24
 12.500 - Above 40  18
Above target (12hrs) +20min + 01 batch increased
Compounds Mixing Targets
Compounds containing Calcium (CaCo
3) compounds mixing targets increased by 5%
 1) Local crepe
 2)  Local multi colour
 3)   Pallert strap
 4) Hose over ﬂ  ow
 5)  Door stopper
 6) Busan band
 7)  Arpico band
 8)  etc. 
Time No of 
Bathes
08 hours
12 hours
33
49
Filer Wt
Kg
Milling
Time (min)
No of Batch 
(12hrs)

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 13A
07-710
My No: CI/1795
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131   
     
The Collective Agreement entered into between Finlays Colombo Limited, No. 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 of the one 
part and the Food, Beverages and Tabacco Industries Employees Union, No. 513-1/2, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of 
the other part on 24th January 2020 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, 
of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, 
Colombo 05.
30th day of April, 2021.


<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 14A
Collective Agrement No. 10 of  2020
CLERICAL, SUPERVISORY AND ALLIED STAFF 
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FINLAYS COLOMBO LIMITED 
This Collective Agreement made this 24th day of January Two Thousand and Twenty pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act 
between FINLAYS COLOMBO LIMITED, a company duly registered under the Provisions of the Companies Act and having 
its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02, (hereinafter referred to as "the Employer") of the ONE PART 
and FOOD BEVERAGES AND TOBACCO INDUSTRIES EMPLOYEES UNION, a trade union duly registered under the 
provisions of the Trade Unions Ordinance and having its registered oﬀ ﬁ ce at No. 513 2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 5 
(hereinafter referred to as "the Union") of the OTHER PART witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows: 
AND
FOOD, BEVERAGES AND TOBACCO INDUSTRIES EMPLOYEES UNION, 
2020 - 2022
TITLE :
This Agreement shall be known and referred to as Finlays Colombo Limited Clerical, Supervisory and allied staﬀ  collective 
agreement of 2020 and will supersede all previous Collective Agreement signed between the company and the union or any 
other  unions including " The clerical, supervisory and allied staﬀ  collective agreement of 2017 signed with the food, beverages 
and Tobacco Industries on Mercantile,Industrial 31st day of March, 2017.
Part I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT 
AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO OR CONNECTED THEREWITH
 1. PERSONS COVERED AND BOUND
  This agreement shall subject as hereinafter provided, blind t he Employer, the Union and all employees as set out in clause 
2 below and who are members of the union.
 2. EMPLOYEES TO BE COVERED AND BOUND
  i. all clerical, Supervisory and Allied Staﬀ  
  ii.  Such Technical, sales and allied staﬀ   as at the 31st day of March Two Thousand and Seventeen were covered by 
the Clerical, Supervisory and allied Staﬀ  Collective Agreement of 2017 only to the extent that they were covered 
thereby, and
  iii.   Such Technical, Sales and allied staﬀ  in respect of those provisions of this Agreement and upon and subject to such 
other terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed between the parties after the date hereof who are members 
of the Union and who are employed by the Employer, save and except-

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 15A
 ( a) Staﬀ   holding executive or managerial positions,
or
 ( b) Staﬀ   employed in manual work who are not expressly covered by this Agreement.
 3. DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION 
This Agreement shall be eﬀ ective as from the First Day of January Two Thousand and Twenty and shall thereafter continue 
in force unless it is determined by either party giving one mon th's notice in writing to the other. Provided however that 
neither party hereto shall give such notice to the other party before the Thirtieth day of November Two Thousand and Twenty 
Two. Provided further that in the event of a reduction in the p ar value of the Sri Lanka Rupee under any provision of law, 
either party shall be at liberty to abrogate this Agreement by giving one month's notice in writing to the other in terms of the 
Industrial Disputes Act.
 4 . GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
  i.  The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall from the  date hereof and during the continuance in force of 
this Agreement, be deemed to be included in all the contracts o f service between the Employer bound by this 
Agreement and an Employee covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contracts of service by written 
or oral, which are subsisting as at the date hereof or which come into being during the continuance in force of this 
Agreement.
  ii.  ( a) The Union and it's members who are employees covered and boun d by this Agreement jointly and severally 
agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary or add 
to all or any of the items and conditions of the employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered 
by and bound by this Agreement, or all or any of the beneﬁ ts presently enjoyed by any of the employees covered 
and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual Agreement.
   ( b) Subject to the terms of this Collective Agreement, the Employer agrees that it shall not seek to vary or add to 
all or any of the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and 
bound by this Agreement, or all or any of the beneﬁ  ts presently enjoyed by and of the employees covered and 
bound by this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
   ( c) Any dispute or diﬀ erence arising from negotiation under provisions of sub clause (a) or (b) may be resolved by 
voluntary arbitration but only if all the parties concerned agree to submit such dispute or diﬀ erence for settlement 
by voluntary arbitration.
  iii. Where existing terms and conditions of employment of an employee covered and bound by this Agreement are 
more favourable than the terms and conditions provided for in this Agreement then nothing in this Agreement shall 
in any way eﬀ ect or prejudice such existing terms and conditions of employm ent and such terms and conditions 
of employment shall continue to exist notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein.
  iv. Where an employee was immediately prior to the date hereo f entitled or becomes entitled on or after that date 
under or by virtue of any law or under any contract, agreement, award or custom to any rights or privileges more 
favourable than those to which he would be entitled under this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall be 
deemed or constrused to authorize or permit the Employer to withhold, restrict or terminate such rights or privileges.
 5. HOURS OF WORK  
  The normal working hours shall, during the continuance in force of this Agreement, be those hours which are customarlly 
worked at a store, factory, mill or job in the establishment of the Employer.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 16A
 6.  OVERTIME
  i.  Any work which is performed in excess of normal working hours shall be remunerated at one and one half (11/2) 
times the normal hourly rate.
  ii. Where if appears that in any establishment of an Employer an Employee on being asked to work overtime, other 
than on a weekly holiday, is likely to work overtime for a peri od of more than two (2) hours after the normal 
working hours, the Employee shall be entitled to an interval of not less than thirty (30) minutes at the end of such 
normal working hours before commencing overtime work.
 7. WEEKLY HOLIDAYS 
  Subject to clause 10 part I hereof the following provisions shall govern weekly holidays:
   i. Subject to sub-clause (iii) hereof the weekly holidays pr escribed by the Act shall be the weekly half 
holiday and the weekly full holiday as deﬁ ned in Part III hereof.
  ii. Work performed on not more than two such weekly holidays in any one calendar month May, at the 
instance of the Employer and with the consent of the Employee, be paid for in the manner set out 
hereunder and the Employee on being paid in the manner set out hereunder shall not be entitled to a 
half holiday or a full holiday as the case maybe in lieu.
 ( a) For any work performed after the normal closing time up to 5.0 0 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, 
the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at double the normal hourly rate for each hour or 
proportinately for any fraction of an hour.
 (b) For any work performed after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime 
remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an 
hour.
 (c) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (a) ab ove or paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the 
Employee's shall be paid the equivalent of the Employee's salary for one half day.
 (d) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1 .00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, 
the overtime remuneration payable to the Employee shall be one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee's 
monthly salary.
 (e) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the 
weekly full holiday, the overtime remuneration payable to the Employee shall be one thirtieth (1/30th) 
of the Employee's monthly salary in respect of the excess hours.
 (f) For any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours or continu ing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full 
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at tr eble the normal hourly rate for each 
hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour of such excess.
 (g) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (d), o r paragraph (d) and (e) or paragraph (d), 
(e) and (f) above, the Employee shall be paid the equivalent of the Employee's salary for one day.
  iii. Where an Employee has performed work on not more than tw o weekly holidays in any one calendar 
month and has been paid for such work in the manner set out in the preceding sub-clause, then in respect 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 17A
of work performed on any further weekly holidays in the same calendar month the Employee shall be 
remunerated in the manner set out hereunder and shall be entitiled to and allowed a half holiday and / 
or a full holiday in lieu of the weekly half holiday and/ or the weekly full holiday as the case may be :-
 ( a) For any work performed after the normal closing time up to 5.0 0 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, 
the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at double the normal hourly rate for each hour or 
proportinately for any fraction of an hour.
 (b) For any work performed after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime 
remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour.
 (c) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1 .00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the 
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee's monthly salary.
 (d) For any work performed in excess of four (4) hours and up to e ight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the 
weekly full holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the 
Employee's monthly salary in respect of the excess hours.
 (e) For any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours or continu ing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full 
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at tr eble the normal hourly rate for each 
hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour of such excess.
 8. CASUAL LEA VE  
  Leave for private business or for any other reason whatsoever, including ill- health if an Employee's entitilement of 
sick leave has been fully utilized, shall be allowed in accordance with the Employee's entitlement under the Act up to 
a maximum of seven (7) days in each year of employment whereof not more than two (2) days at any one time shall 
be taken, save upon the grounds of ill-health. Such leave shall  be known as Casual Leave and shall be additional to 
all other holidays and leave provisions but an Employee shall n ot be entitiled to take such Casual Leave preceding 
or follwing any period of Annual Leave, Casual Leave shall norm ally be granted on request without the Employee 
being required to state the reason for the request. Where the E mployer ﬁ nds it diﬃ  cult to grant an application for 
Casual Leave, his diﬃ  culty shall be notiﬁ ed to the Employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in 
such case the Employee may be required to state the reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide 
whether or not it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant the leave.
 9. STATUTORY AND CUSTOMARY HOLIDAYS 
   Subject to Clause 10 of Part I hereof, the following provisions shall govern statutory and customary holidays-
  (i). The following holidays shall be allowed each year as pai d holidays:
 New Year's Day
 Thai Pongal Festival Day
 Independence Day
 Sinhala & Tamil New Year (Two Days)
 Good Friday
 Holy Saturday (Half Day)
 May Day
 The Day following Wesak
 Prophet Mohammed's B'day
 Christmas Eve (Half day)
 Christmas Day
 Boxing Day

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 18A
 
  (iii). 
 ( a) If any of the above days is a statutory holiday and if it fall s on a weekly half holiday, an additional 
half day shall be granted on the working day immediately preced ing it; and if it falls on a weekly full 
holiday, a substitute holiday shall be granted on a working day either in six (6) days preceding or in the 
six (6) days succeeding such weekly full holiday. No substitute  holiday shall be allowed for any day 
speciﬁ ed above which is not a statutory holiday, if such day falls on a weekly half holiday or a weekly 
full holiday.
 ( b) If any of the above days is a statutory holiday and some other  day not speciﬁ ed above is declared a 
statutory holiday in substitution for such day, then such day shall be treated as a normal working day.
  iv.   Muslim Employees shall normally on application be granted leave on the day following the end of Ramazan and 
on the Hadji Festival Day; and Hindu Employees shall normally on application be granted leave on the Deepavali 
Festival Day; and such leave shall be set oﬀ  against any paid leave entitlement or if all such paid leave entiltlement 
for that year shall be exhuasted, such leave maybe granted as an um-paid holiday.
  v .   (a) Where the Employer requires an Employee to work during either of the half holidays set out in sub clause (i) 
hereof (i.e after the normal working hours for that day) the Employer shall pay the Employee either- 
 ( i) on the basis set out in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of Clause  7(ii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall 
not be entitled to a half holiday in lieu.
or
 ( ii) on the basis set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Clause 7(iii ) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall be 
entitled to and allowed a half holiday in lieu.
  
   (b) Where the Employer requires an Employee to work on any of the holidays set out in sub clause (i) hereof and 
provided that if such holiday is a statutory holiday the Commissioner of Labour has given his permission for the 
Employee to work on such holiday, the Employer shall pay the Employee either-
 ( i) on the basis set out in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) and (g) of Cl ause 7(ii) of Part I hereof and the Employee 
shall not be entitled to a half holiday in lieu.
or
 ( ii) on the basis set out in paragraphs (c),(d) and (e) of Clause 7 (iii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall 
be entitled to and allowed a half holiday in lieu.
  v .   An Employer may discuss with the Union the possibility of removing one or more of the customary holidays 
on terms which may be mutually agreed to by the parties.
 10. SUPERVISORY STAFF 
  The provisions of Clauses 7 and 9 of Part I hereof regarding we ekly holidays and statutory and customary holidays 
shall not apply to Storekeepers, Assistant Storekeepers, Overseers, Foremen and other like or similar categories whose 
work involves the supervision of staﬀ  employed in manual work (hereinafter referred to as "supervis ory staﬀ ") but 
in respect of such supervisiory staﬀ  the following provisions shall apply:-

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 19A
 ( I) Weekly half holiday : For any work performed in excess of the normal working hours on the weekly 
half holiday, the Employee shall be remunerated at one and a half (11/2) times the normal hourly rate 
and such Employee shall not be entitled to any holiday in lieu for any overtime work so performed on 
a weekly half holiday.
 ( II) Weekly full holiday  : For any work performed on the weekly full holiday the Employ ee shall be 
remunerated as follows:-
 ( a) (i) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the 
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee's monthly salary 
in respect of the excess hours.
 
  (ii) For any work performed in excess of four (4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the 
weekly full holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remune ration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the 
Employee's monthly salary in respect of the excess hours.
  (iii) In respect of any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours o r continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the 
weekly full holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remune ration at treble the normal hourly rate 
for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour of such excess.
  (iv) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (i) above or paragraphs (i) and (ii) or paragraphs 
(i), (ii) and (iii) above, the Employee shall be paid the equivalent of the Employee's salary for one (1) day.
  Where any work is performed on the weekly full holiday and th e Employee is remunerated in the manner 
set out above, the Employee shall be entitled to any holiday in lieu.
or
 ( b) (i) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the 
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee's monthly salary.
  (ii) For any work performed in excess of four (4) hours up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the weekly 
full holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the Employee's 
monthly salary in respect of the excess hours.
  (iii) In respect of any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours o r continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the 
weekly full holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remune ration at treble the normal hourly rate 
for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour in respect of such excess.
  Where any work is performed on the weekly full holiday and th e Employee is remunerated in the manner 
set out above, the Employee shall be entitled to and allowed a holiday in lieu.
 ( III) Statutory and Customary holiday : Supervisory staﬀ  shall be entitled to such Statutory and Customary 
Holidays as they have hitherto enjoyed prior to the coming into force of this Agreement notwithstanding 
anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement and for an y work performed on such Statutory 
or Customory Holidays the Supervisory Staﬀ  shall continue to be remunetated in the manner in which 
they were remunerated prior to the coming into force of this Ag reement notwithstanding anything to 
the contrary contained in this Agreement. Provided however that  the Supervisory Staﬀ  shall have the 
same holidays as may from time to time be enjoyed by the staﬀ  employed in manual work supervised by 
such supervisory staﬀ  and that the total of such holidays shall not be less than the total of the Statutory 
and Customary Holidays enjoyed by the Supervisory Staﬀ  as at the date hereof.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 20A
 ( IV) Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed in any way as bri nging the Supervisory staﬀ  within the 
provisions of the Act.
 11. ANNUAL HOLIDAYS
  Annual holidays shall be as prescribed by the Act and an Employ ee may opt to set of  absence due to ill health in 
excess of the entitlement provided under Clause 12 of Part I hereof against his annual leave entitlement.
 
 12. SICK LEA VE  
 ( i) An Employee shall be entitled to not less than Twenty One (21) days leave, exclusive of weekly or other 
holidays, in any year in case of sickness, on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.
 ( ii) The Employer will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any d ays of absence of grounds of sickness not 
supported by a certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner:
 ( a) Where such period of absence exceeds two (2) days,
or
 ( b) where the number of days already allowed on full pay on ground s of sickness, uncertiﬁ ed by a Medical 
Practitioner, is in excess of ten (10) days in any one year and  the Employer has reasonable cause for 
suspicition of the bona ﬁ des of the application of the Employee.
or
 ( c) where the absence of the Employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any holiday 
allowed under Clauses 8, 9 and 11 of Part I hereof.
  
  Provided further that any Employee who has abused the concess ion conferred by paragraph (a) above shall be liable 
to forfeit the same and the Employer may by Agreement with the Union accordingly withdraw such concession.
 ( iii) An Employee who takes less than Twenty One (21) days sick leav e in any one year as prescribed above 
shall be entitled to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year 
or years subject to the following provisions:-
 ( a) In no case shall the entitlement to sick leave on full pay in any one year by reason of such accumulation 
of sick leave entitlement exceed ninety (90) days.
 ( b) The accumulated sick leave which an Employee is entitled to t ake in terms of  sub clause (iii) (a) 
hereof may be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalisation, infectious disease or similar 
circumstances, but shall not be used for casual illness.
 ( c) An Employee who avails himself of accumulated sick leave in a ny year shall support such absence with 
a certiﬁ cate from a Registered Medical Practitioner unless this requirement is waived by the Employer.
 ( d) An Employee who is entitled to accumulated sick leave in term s of this sub clause iii (b) before utilising 
his/her 21 days sick leave in respect of the year in which he/she wished to avail himself of the sick leave, 
if he has not already utilised such 21 days leave.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 21A
 13. SALARIES 
  The salaries of all employees who were in employment as at 1 st January 2020 and continue to be in employment as 
at the date of signing of this Agreement shall be revised as follows:
 ( i) A sum equivalent to 8% of the salary of an employee as at 31 st December 2019 shall be added to the 
salary with eﬀ ect from 1st January 2020.
 ( ii) Thereafter, a sum of Rs. 1,000/- will be consolidated into th e salary of the employee with eﬀ ect from 
1st January 2020.
 (iii) A sum equivalent to 7% of the salary of an employee as at 31st  December 2020 shall be added to the 
salary of an employee with eﬀ ect from 1st January 2021.
 (iv) Thereafter, a aum of Rs. 1000/= will be consolidated to the sa lary of an employee with eﬀ ect from 1st 
January 2020.
 (v) A sum equivalent to 6% of the salary of an employee as at 31st  December 2021 shall be added to the 
salary of an employeee with eﬀ ect from 1at January 2022.
 (vi) Thereafter a sum of Rs. 1000/- will be consolidated into the salary of the employees with eﬀ ect from 
1st January 2022.
 16.  The salary ranges and increments applicable to the diﬀ  erent categories of employees covered and bound by 
this Agreement will be as follows:
  Minor Staﬀ   - Rs 14,000/- to 26,000/-  Minimum increment of Rs 250/- goin g up to Rs 450/-
  Grade 1 - Rs 14,250/- to 28,500/-   Minimum increment of Rs 350 /- going up to Rs 650/-
  Grade 2 - Rs 14,500/- to 30,000/-   Minimum increment of Rs 4 00/- going up to Rs 700/-
  Higher Grade - Rs 15,000/- to 32,000/-  Minimum increment of Rs 475/- going up to Rs 750/-
 
  Special Grade - Rs 15,500/- to 34,000/-  Minimum increment of  Rs 550/- going up to Rs 850/-
 15. SALARIES FOR PERIODS LESS THAN ONE MONTH
  For the purpose of this Agreement salaries of any Employee for periods less than one month shall be computed in the 
manner following:
 ( a) For one hour - the salary for a month divided by two hundred and forty (240);
 ( b)  For  one day - the salary for a month divided by thirty (30) ;
 ( c) For one half day (either morning a afternoon) - a day's salary ascertained as above divided by two (2);
 
 ( d)  For one week - a day's salary ascertained as above multiplie d by seven (7)
 16. PROVIDENT FUND
 (I)  The Employer and Employee shall contribute to the Mercantile Se rvices Provident Society at rates 
Prescribed by the Employees' Provident Fund Act No. 15 of 1958.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 22A
 (II) Subject to the provisions of the Employees' Trust Fund Ac t, No. 46 of 1980, where the employer and 
an Employee as at the date hereof were contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more favourable than 
those prescribed by the Employees' Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will 
continue.
 17.  BONUS
 (i) Without prejudice to exsting bonus schemes, Employer will conti nue to pay ex-gratia to Employees 
bonuses which will not be less than the quantum of bonus paymen t paid to them in accorrdance with 
prevailing practice prior to the First Day of January, Two Thousand and Twenty. If the Employer ﬁ nds 
it necessary, in his discretion, to reduce the quantum of bonus  payments in respect of any year, the 
Branch Union in the establishment of the Employer concerned may canvass the question of the reduction 
with the Employer. If  the Branch Union is not satisﬁ ed by the Employer in the matter, the Union may 
pursue the matter with the Federation. Thereupon, the Federation will consider the matter and advice the 
Employer in such manner as the Federation deems ﬁ t in the circumstances. If the Union is not satisﬁ ed 
in regard to the quantum of bonus payments ﬁ nally decided by the Employer in the light of the advice 
given by the Federation, the Union will not pursue the matter further by any form of trade union action 
or otherwise duriing the pendency if this Agreement. 
 (ii) Payment of bonus higher than the quantum of bonus payment s in the past will be in the sole discretion 
of the Employer, and the payment of such higher bonus shall not be subject to any dispute.
 (iii)  The provisions of sub clauses (i) and (ii) above will Multatis mutandis apply to exsting bonus schemes.
 (iv)  The Employer and the Union reserve the right to review t he provisions of this clause in the event of 
proﬁ t sharing or Employee participation in proﬁ  ts becoming compulsory by virtue of any law. Any 
dispute arising there from shall be dealt with as provided in clause 26(i) of Part I hereof.
 18. PROMOTIONS :
 (i) The following shall be the principles which will guide the Employer on the question of promotion.
  ( a)  Mere length of service shall not be the sole criterion for p romotion and the Employer shall 
be entitled to take into account other factors such as eﬃ   ciency, educational qualiﬁ cations and 
character. Where suitability is comparable, seniority shall be given preference.
  ( b)  An Employee in Grade I in the Clerical or Supervisory Staﬀ  will normally be promoted to Grade 
II either before or after completing a maximum period of 7 year s service in Grade 1 unless his 
work is of a mechanical or routine nature not involving a degre e of skill or responsibility or 
unless his ineﬃ  ciency has been established after due inquiry as provided in Clause 23 of Part I 
hereof.
  ( c)  Promotion of Clerical and Supervisory from Grade II to the H igher Grade will depend on 
vacancies and Employees who have shown the neccessary capacity will be eligible for promotion 
to the Higher Grade.
  ( d)  Promotion of Clerical and Supervisory Staﬀ  to the Special Grade will be from the Higher Grade 
and will depend on merit.
  
 (ii) The number of Employees in the Higher or special Grade of the Clerical and Supervisory Staﬀ  of any 
establishment will be determined having regard, inter alia, to -

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 23A
   ( a) the nature of the undertaking;
  ( b) the strength of the work force;
  ( c) the work involved in a post; and
  ( d) the merit of the Employees available for promotion
 (iii) Where an Employee is promoted at the normal incremental date from one grade to another, such 
Employee shall receive a salary not less than that which he would have received had he remained in 
the grade from which he is promoted. But where an Employee is p romoted on a date other than the 
normal incremental date, such Employee shall be placed at a sal ary point in the higher grade which 
will give him a salary not less than that which he would have received if he had remained in the grade 
from which he is promoted. Provided however, that if an Employee is standing at the end of a grade 
when he is promoted to the next grade, such Employee may be placed at any point in the higher grade 
to which he is promoted which will give him a higher salary tha n the maximim salary in the grade 
from which he is promoted.
 19. TRANSFERS
 (i) Where it is a term of employment either express or implied  that an Employee is liable to be transferred 
from one locality of an establishment to another, such Employee will not be entitled to any additional 
remuneration if, in consequence of a transfer from one locality to another, there is an increase in the 
number of hours of work.
 (ii) Where it is not a term of employment either expressed or implied that an Employee is liable to be 
transfered from one locality of an establishment to another, such Employee will be entitled to receive 
and the Employer shall be liable to pay additional remuneration  in order to compensate for any 
increase in the number of hours of work arising from a transfer from one locality of an establishment 
to another. The amount of such additional remuneration, which w ill depend on the extent to which 
the hours of work have been increased, shall be mutually agreed  upon between the Employer and 
Employee is re-transferred to the locality in which he was previously employed and/or the additional 
remuneration granted to him shall be withdrawn with eﬀ ect from the date of such re-transfer or restoration.
 (iii) Where it is not a term of employment either expressed or  implied that an Employee is liable to be 
transferred from one locality of an establishment to another and the transfer of such an Emplyee will 
cause him substantial demestic disorganization such as may aris e in consequence of a transfer from 
one station to another such transfer shall be oﬀ  ected of mutual consent between the Employer and 
such Employee even if:-
   ( a) such transfer will not involve a change in the number of hours of work, or
   ( b) he is oﬀ ered additionla remuneration in terms of sub-clause 
   ( ii) above
 (iv) Nothing in the preceding sub-clauses of this Clause shall  prejudice the right of an Employee to make 
representation to the Employer against any order of transfer. I f the Employer requires an Employee to 
comply with an order of transfer not with standing such representaions, the Employee shall comply with 
the order of transfer but without prejudice to the right of an Employee to make representations to the 
Employer against any order of transfer. If the Employer requires an Employee to comply with the order 
of transfer not with standing such representations, the Employee shall comply with the order of transfer 
but without prejudice to the right of the Employee or the Branc h Union or the Union on his behalf to 
dispute such transfer with the Employer thereafter as provided in this Agreement.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 24A
 (v)  If the Executive Committee of the Union considers that any  order of transfer of an Employee by an 
Employer is calculated to theaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union or 
its members or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to th e interests of the Union, the Union shall 
notify the Employer and the Federation thereof in writing and m ay, if in the opinion of the Executive 
Committee of the circumstances so warrent, instruct the Employe e to refrain from complying with the 
order of transfer pending settlement of the dispute as provided  in this Agreement. If the Union instruct 
the Employee to refrain from complying with the order of transfer as aforesaid, the Union shall notify the 
Employer shall be entitled to suspend the Employee immediately without pay. Provided however, that 
if the Employer subsequently agrees or if an Arbitrator holds that the order of transfer was justiﬁ ed, the 
Employee shall comply with the order of transfer and he shall not be entitled to his salary for the period 
of suspension. The refusal of an Employee to comply with an ord er of transfer or instructions from the 
Union after the union notifying the Employer and the Federation as aforementioned shall not be deemed 
to be an act of insubordination by the Employee and the employe e shall not be liable to disciplinary 
action by the Employer for such refusal.
20.  CARRYING OUT EMPLOYE R'S INSTRUCTIONS AS DUTIES
 (i)  If an Employee considers that any duty which he is requir ed to perform by the Employer does not fall 
within the scope of his employment under the Employer, the empl oyee shall be entitled to bring such 
matter to the notice of the Employer. If notwithstanding such n otiﬁ cation the Employer requires the 
Employee to carry out such instructiond, then the Employee shall be entitled to request the Employer to 
give him instructions in writing.
 (ii)  If the Employer gives the Employee such instructions in writing, the Employee shall carry out the same 
but without prejudice to the right of the Employee of the Branc h Union on his behalf to dispute such 
matter with the Employer tthereafter as provided in this Agreement.
 (iii) If the Employer refuses to give such instructions in writing, the Employee shall be entitled to refuse to carry 
out such instructions and in that event the Employer shall have no right of action against the Employee.
 (iv)  If the employer gives such instructions in writing but t he Employee fails to carry out the same, the 
Employer shall be entitled to suspend the Employee immediately without pay and to take disciplinary 
action against him without prejudice to the right of the Employ ee or the Branch Union or the Union on 
his behalf to dispute such suspension or such disciplinary acti on as may be taken against the Employee 
as provided in this Agreement.
 21. SUSPENSION
 (i)  An employee may, subject as hereafter provided, be suspen ded without pay be the Employer :-
  
  ( a)  pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge o r charges of misconduct where 
such charge or charges relate to :
  (I)  fraud, theft, misappropriation or a like oﬀ  ence by the Employee in the course of his employment;
  (II)  abuse, threat or gross insubordination by the Employee of or to a member of the executive or 
managerial staﬀ  of the Employer;
  (III) a breach of peace, or damage to property, or disturbanc e of the business of the Employer.
 Provided however, that the Employer shall suspend an Employee under paragraph (III) above only for so long as the 
Employee's continuance in employment will or is likely to be underirable or to be prejudicial to the proper investigation of 
the charges of the Employer carrying on his business;

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 25A
  ( b)  as a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding se ven (7) working days, after due 
inquiry;
  ( c)  if an Employee refrains from complying with any order of tra nsfer in terms of Clause 19 of 
Part I hereof or fails to carry out the Employer's written inst ructions in terms of Clause 20 of 
part I hereof.
  (ii)  At the time of suspension or within twenty four (24) ho urs thereof, the Employer shall provide the 
Employee with a written order or suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension.
  (iii) Nothing in the preceding sub-clause shall prejudice the right of an Employees or a Branch Union of the 
Union on his behalf to dispute an order of suspension thereafter as provided in this Agreement.
22.  PROBATION
 (i) Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a per iod of probation of not more than six (6) 
months. Provided however that if at the expiry of the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is 
not satisﬁ ed with the progress of such Employee, the probationary period may be extended for a further 
period of three (3) and in that event the Employer shall indicated to the Employee in writing the reasons 
why the probationary period has been further extended. During t he period of probation or extended 
probation, the Employer shall have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without notice.
 23. DISCIPLINARY ACTION
  Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee th en -
  (i) irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended un der Clause 21(i) of Part I hereof or not, the 
Employee shall be furnished with a show cause notice which shal l set out the particulars of the charges 
of misconduct alleged against such Employee and such show cause  notice shall give the Employee not 
less than ﬁ ve (5) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation to the charges preferred.
 (ii) Within ﬁ  ve (5) clear working days after the date of the show cause not ice, the Employee shall furnish 
in writing to the Employer the answer or explanation too the ch arges preferred against such Employee. 
Provided however, that if in the circumstnaces it is reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer for 
an extension of time within which to furnish the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice 
and where such request is made by an Employee to the Employer, the Employer shall grant such request 
for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
 (iii) If the Employer is satisﬁ  ed with the writtten answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, 
if he is under suspension, forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all emoluments and entitlements due 
during the period of such suspension.
 (iv) If the Employer is not satisﬁ  ed with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to t he show 
cause notice and such answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence 
an inquiry within fourteen (14) working days from the date of r eceipt by him of the written answer or 
explanation to the show cause notice.
 (v) After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the E mployee of the ﬁ ndings on each of the charges 
in the show cause notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by  the Employer. Provided that if an 
Employer fails to make an order, expect for reasond beyond the control of the Employer, on the charges 
in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from t he conclusion of the inquiry into such 
charges the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereaf ter in respect of such charges and no 
inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 26A
 (vi) If the Employee is under suspension and the Employer, aft er such inquiry, makes
  order that
   (a) The Employee shall not be dismissed, then the Employee s hall resume employment forthwith 
and shall, subject to Clause 21(i) (b) hereof, be paid all emoluments and entitlements due during 
the period of suspension irrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be 
imposed by the Employer on the ﬁ nding as to the charges in the show cause notice.
   (b)  The Employee shall be dismissed, the Employee's dismiss al shall take eﬀ ect as from the date 
of the Employee's suspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of 
such suspension.
   (c)  In view of the serious or involved nature of the charge s in the show cause notice against the 
Employee, the Employer is unable to make a ﬁ nal order as it is necessary and desirable that the 
matter be referred to the Police or other authorities for further investigations or inquiries and that 
the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authori ties or if in view of the serious or 
involved nature of the charged preferred against the Employee t he matter had been previously 
referred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such 
investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances, the Employee may 
remain suspended without pay.
 (vii)  If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provid ed for herein the Employer fails to make an order 
under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other  than that of the Employee's 
own seeking within thirty (30) working days from the day of the  Employee's suspension the Employee 
shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for the perio d of thirty (30) working days from the 
date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in excess of thirty (30) 
working days up to the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) and to (c) of the 
preceding sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
 (viii) In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under 
paragraphs (a) to (c) of sub-clause
 (vi)  hereof within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension  of the Employee, unless he is prevented from so 
doing by reason of the Employee's own seeking or for reasons be yond the control of the Employer or it 
is agreed between the Federation and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety 
(90) days be extended for such further time as may be agreed.
 (xi) The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (iv) and (v) hereof 
where the Employer proposed to warn an Employee or where the Em ployee admits to the charge or 
charges. Provided however that if the Union disputes the warini ng or the punishment imposed on the 
Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an inquiry the Employer shall comply with such 
request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquir y shall then apply subject to the exception 
that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within fourtee n (14) working days after receipt of the 
Employee's explanation shall not be material or relevant.
 
 24. RETIREMENT
  An Employee has the option of retiring at the age of ﬁ  fty ﬁ ve (55) years or at any time thereafter and shall retire 
on attaining the age of sixty (60) years. Provided however that  if the Employer requires to retain the services of an 
Employee who has attained the age of sixty (60) years, the Employee shall be oﬀ ered fresh employment on a temporary 
basis so long as the Employer requires the services of such Employee.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 27A
 25. TRADE UNION ACTION
 (i) The Union hereby undertakes in respect of all the terms an d conditions of employment covered by this  
Agreement not to seek to vary or alter any such terms or conditions other than by negotiation during the 
currency of this Agreement and hereby expressly undertakes, subject to Clause 26(iv)(d) of part I hereof, 
not to engage in a strike or other form of trade union action i n respect of a dispute but will have such 
dispute settled in accordance with the procedure set out in Clause 26 of Part I hereof.
   
 (ii) In case the Union decides to call for a general stoppage of work by its members in establishment of 
the employer on any matter not covered by this Agreement, the U nion will give written notice to the 
employer in whose establishment the work stoppage is to take pl ace, and will give its reasons therefor. 
The Union will give at least one week's notice to the employer of the date of the stoppage, or even longer 
notice between the date of the Union's decision to call for a general stoppage of work and the date ﬁ xed 
for the stoppage, in the circumstances in which such a stoppage  may be decided upon. in such case the 
Union will also instruct its Branch Union to exempt an agreed n umbers of members from the work 
stoppage, in order to provide the employer on a written request  made by the employer, with a skeleton 
staﬀ , in order to maintain essential services.
 26. DISPUTES PROCEDURE
    Save and except any diﬀ  erence arising out of bonus which shall be dealt with as provi ded in Clause 17 
  of part I hereof, it is hereby agreed that the procedure to b e followed for the settlement of a dispute shall  
  be as set out in sub-clause (I) or (ii) hereof.
 (i) (a) Where a dispute is between an employee and the employe r, the employee shall, in the ﬁ  rst 
instance, raise the matter through such employee's Branch Union  with the employer and both 
parties shall endeavour to eﬀ ect an amicable settlement. Provided, however, that if the exigencies 
of the circumstances warrant the Union acting immediately in ac cordance with the succeeding 
paragraph (b) it shall not be necessary for the employee'' Bran ch Union to raise the matter as 
herein provided before the Union acts under the succeeding paragraph (b)
  (b)  In the event of a dispute not being settled under paragr aph (a) above, or in the case of a dispute 
between the branch Union and the employer, the Union may, if it so desires, raise the matter with 
the Federation and thereupon all steps shall be taken that may be reasonable by the Union and 
the federation for an amicable settlement of the matter in disp ute utilising if desired, the good 
oﬃ  ces of the Conciliation Division of the Department of Labour.
  (c) In the event of a dispute not being resolved or settled under the preceding paragraphs (a) or (b), 
the parties shall agree a statement of the matters in dispute and such matter shall be referrred to 
an Arbitrator or Arbitrators under section 3(I)(d) of the Indus trial Disputes Act for settlement 
by arbitration, or by mutual agreement decide on a reference to  a qualiﬁ ed mediator or body of 
mediators, if and when it may be feasible. provided however that should the parties fail to agree 
on a statement of the issue of the dispute for purposes of arbi tration, each party shall furnish 
the Commisssioner of Labour with a statement setting out the is sues in dispute and thereafter 
the Commissioner of Labour shall set out the issues in dispute to be referred to the Arbitrator or 
Arbitrators.
 (ii) (a) The Union may notify the Federation in writing with a  statement of the matter in dispute that such 
dispute should be dealt with under the sub-clause. As soon as possible after such notiﬁ cation by 
the Union to the federation, a Special Disputes Committee of th e Federation shall endeavour to 
settle the dispute. if no settlement is eﬀ ected within seven (7) days from the date of the Union 
notifying the federation, the dispute shall, as soon as possibl e, be referred the Commissioner 

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 28A
of labour for settlement by arbitration as provided in sub-clau se (i)(c) above, or if the union or 
the Employer so requests, the dispute shall be referred immdiat ely to a Special Arbitrator for 
settlement by arbitration.
  (b) If a dispute arising from the dismissal or discharge of a n Employee by the Employer is referred 
to a Special Arbitrator as aforesaid and he is unable to make a n award within twenty one (21) 
days of the date of receipt of the reference, the Special Arbit rator shall be compentent, but not 
bound, either of his own motion or at the instance of the Union , to make an interim award after 
duly considering all the relevant facts and circumstances for his failure to make an award within 
tweny one (21) days of the date of reference, directing the Employer to pay the Employee a sum 
not exceeding the equivalent of one half of the Employee's norm al remuneration for the ﬁ rst 
thirty (30) days from the date of cessation of employment and f or such period thereafter but 
not later than the date of the award on the reference a sum not  exceeding the quivalent of the 
employee's full remuneration. The parties shall be bound by and  comply with the terms of any 
such interim award.
 (iii) Subject to sub-clause (iv) hereof, the procedure for the  settlement of a dispute shall be as set out in 
sub-clause (i) hereof.
 (iv) The procedure for the settlement of a dispute in respect of the matters enumerated in the succeeding 
paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) shall, subject to the succeeding paragraph (d), be as set out in sub-clause (ii)  
(a) hereof.
     (a) A dispute in connection with the interpretation or imp lementation of this Agreement arising from 
an Act of the Employer, which in the opinion the Executive Committee of the Union is calculated 
to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union.
     (b) A dispute not connected with the interpretation or imp lementation of this Agreement arising 
from an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the Executi ve Committee of the Union 
is calculated to threaten or undermine the existence of the leg itimate activities of the Union 
or its members or is grosssly unfair or seriously detrimental t o the interests of the union or its 
members. provided however that the disputes shall be referred t o an arbitrator or arbitrators 
under the Industrial Disputes Act or to a Special Arbitrator as  the case may be, if no settlement 
is eﬀ ected within seven (7) days from the date of the Union notifying the Federation in terms of 
sub-clause (ii)(a) hereof, only if the Union so desire.
     (c) A dispute arising from the dismissal or discharge of a n Employee by the employer on disciplinary 
grounds, which dismissal or discharge is in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union 
vindictive or in bad faith and is calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate 
activities of the Union. Provided however that the dispute shal l be referred to an Arbitrator or 
Arbitrators under the industrial Disputes Act or to a special A rbitrator as the case may be, if no 
settlement is eﬀ ected within seven (7) days from the date of the Union notifyi ng the Federation 
in terms of sub-clause (ii)(a)hereof, only if the Union so desires.
     (d) If the Union does not, however, desire to refer a disp ute for settlement by arbitration under the 
provisions of the preceding paragraphs (b) or (c), the union reserves to itself the right to engage 
in or authorise a strike or other form of trade Union action an d the Employer reserves the right 
to take such steps as it may deem ﬁ t in the circumstances.
   (v) (a)  In respect of a dispute arising between the parties  hereto where Arbitrations is provided for under 
this Agreement, it is agreed that the parties to the dispute sh all determine at the date thereof 
whether the dispute shall be settled by Arbitration by on Arbitrator or three Arbitrators. provided 

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 29A
however that disputes arising over dismissals shall normally be  referred to one Arbitrator and 
disputes arising over the proper interpretation or implementation of this Agreement if involving 
matters of principle or matters of general importance shall normally, if possible, be referred to a 
panel of not less than three Arbitrators.
     (b) For the purposes of this Agreement, an Arbitrator or S pecial Arbitrator shall be jointly selected 
by the parties. if the parties fail to agree on an arbitrator or Special Arbitrator, he shall be selected 
by the Commissioner of labour.
     (c) Where a Dispute over a dismissal has been referred for  settlement by Arbitration under the 
provisions of this Agreeement and the award contains a ﬁ nding that the dismissal of the Employee 
by the Employer was not justiﬁ ed, then it is hereby agreed between the parties that normally  in 
such a case the Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator shall order that the Employee shall be reinstated 
in his employment with the Employer and it is hereby further ag reed that in any such aribtrator 
the aribtrator or the special Arbitrator shall take note of this paragraph in making any such award.
     (d) A special Arbitrator shall be competent, but no bound,  to make order in his award as  to the 
manner in which the costs of the Arbitrator excluding the legal expenses of either party shall be 
borne by the parties.
     (e) An award of an  Arbitrator or special Arbitrator made as herein provided shall be ﬁ  nal and 
binding on the parties hereto.
     (f) (i) Where the union seeks to settle a dispute by Arbit rator as provided for in this clause, such 
request for aribtrator shall be communicated to the federation withing six months calculated 
from the date on which negotiations fail.
      (ii) Either party shall be entitled at any stage to infor m the other that negotiations have failed.
      (iii) The Employer shall not be under any obligation to r efer to aribtrator any dispute where the 
request for Arbitrator is not made within the period of six months speciﬁ ed in this sub-clause.
     (g) (i) Where the union seeks to settle a dispute relating to the termination of the services of an Employee 
by Arbitration as provided for in this clause, such termination should have been disputed by the 
Employee with Employer, or by the Branch Union with the Employer, or by the Union with the 
Employer, or by the Union with the employer within three (3) months of the date of termination.
      (ii) The Employer shall not be under any obligation to re fer to Arbitration a dispute relating to 
the termination of the services of an Employee where it has not been disputed as aforementioned 
within the period ot three (3) months from the date of termination of services.
      (iii) The date of termination for the purposes of this su b-clause shall be the date on which the 
written communication is sent to the Employee terminating his s ervices and not the date on 
which the termination of services takes eﬀ ect under clause 23(vi)(b) hereof. 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 30A
Part II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED 
BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
 1. DOMESTIC INQUIRIES
  If an Employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in ter ms oc clause 23 of part I hereof is a member of the 
union, the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice.
 
     (a) The Employer will, suject as hereinafter provided, all ow another member of the Union (hereinafter 
referred to as ''an observer'') to be present as an observer without loss of salary for absence from 
work.
     (b) If the Employee who is served with a show cause notce desires an observer to be present at the 
inquiry to be  held pursuant to such show cause notice, he shal l forty eight (48) hours at least 
before the time appointed for the commencement of the iquiry submit to the Employer the name 
of such observer. 
     (c) An observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, 
but an observer shall not be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause 
notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
     (d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled t o require an observer who obstructs such 
inquiry in any manner whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an observer shall forthwith comply 
with such requirement.
   (vi) The absence of an observer from the whole or any part o f an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall 
not vitiate such inquiry, nor the proceedings thereto, nor the ﬁ ndings pursuant thereto.
 2. UNION MEETINGS
 
   (i)  The following provisions shall apply to meetings of Bra nch Unions.
 
     (a) In respect of each meeting which a Branch Union desires to hold at the Employer's premises, an 
application for permission shall be previously made to the Employer.
     (b) If the employer decided to grant permission the Employer shall be Entitled to impose, inter alia, 
one or more of the undernoted conditions.
   (i)  That no person other than an Employee of the Company sh all be present at a meeting of the Branch 
Union.
   (ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Branch Union oﬃ  ce bearers of the Union 
may with the previous approval of the Employer attend.
   (iii) ﬁ  x a time limit within which a meeting of the Branch Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
 
     (c) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its oﬃ   ce bearers to ensure that the terms on which 
permission to hold a meeting of the Branch Union is granted are duly complied with.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 31A
     (d) It shall be the duty of the Branch union and its oﬃ   ce bearers to ensure that no damage is caused 
in the course of or n connection with a meeting of the Branch u nion to the Employer's property 
or any other persons at the  Employer's premises and the union shall indemnify the Employer and 
keep the Employer indemniﬁ ed against any such damage. 
   (i)  The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the  general council of the Union.
     (a) Wihtout preudice to the right of the Employer refuse t o grant permission if in his discretion the 
exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission to 
a member of the general council of the union in order to attend a meeting of the General Council, 
to leave oﬃ  ce not earlier than 3 o' clock in the afternoon on not more t han one occasion in a 
month without loss of salary for such absence if an application for permission to attend is made 
at least forty eight (48) hours before the time appointed for h olding the meeting of the General 
Council.
     (b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) above the Union shall  forthwith furnish the Employer in whose 
service there are members of the General Council of the Union with a list of such members and 
keep the Employer informed of all changes therein which may be made from time to time.
   (ii)  The provisions of the preceding sub-clauses (i) and (i i) shall be in derogation of any existing 
concessions or facilities granted by the Employer to the Branch Union regarding Union Meetings.
 2. DUTY LEA VE
  
   (i)  The following provisions shall apply to duty leave:
     without prejudice to the right of the Employer to reufuse to grant permission if in his discretion the 
exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not 
less than two oﬃ  ce bearers of the Branch Union.
     (a) to be present at conferences held under the aegis of t he Employer or the Employers' Federation of 
Ceylon or the Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Branch Union and 
the Employer, or.
     (c) To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrat ors or labour Tribunals without
     loss of salary for such absence.
 
   (ii) The Employer will in his discretion grant leave to an E mployee to attend a Trade Union course or 
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad on no pay leave unless the Employee concerned 
is entitled to annual leave, customary or statutory holidays which he wishes to utilise for the pupose.
 4. CHECK OFF
 
   (i)  (a) In this clause ''Employer'' shall mean the Employer  bound by this Agreement and in whose 
establishment the membership of the Union is not less than forty per centum (40%) of the persons 
employed by him in the categories coverd and bound by this Agreement.
     (b) If, for the purpose of this sub-clause, it becomes nec essary to decide the question whether 
in the establishment of the Employer bound by this agreement th e membership of the union 
is not less than forty per centum (40%) of the persons employed by him in the categories covered 
by this agreement, the same shall be dermined by a referendum w hich shall be held by the 
Department of Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the parties hereto and 
the Employer.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 32A
   (ii) The Employer shall on the written request of an Employe e deduct from the pay due to such Employee 
the current monthly union dues as are specifed by the Employee to be payable by the Employee to the 
Union and remit the amount so deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and 
subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
   (iii) every Employee who agrees to the deduction o Union due s from his pay shall sign a statement to the 
eﬀ ect in the from set out in form No.1 in the fourth schedule hereto and hererinafter referred to as ''an 
authorisation''.
   (iv) every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreem ent to check-oﬀ  at any time by signing a 
statement ot that eﬀ ect in the form set out in form No.2 in the fourth schedule he reto and hereinafter 
referred to as ''a revocation''.
   (v) No variation in the monthly deductions by way of check-o ﬀ  shall be made by the Employer except 
by mutual agreement with the Union and Employee concerned. in t he event of any variation being 
agreed, each Employee will need to signify his agreement to the  revised amount being deducted by 
way of check-oﬀ . by signing a fresh authorization to that eﬀ ect in the form set out in form no.3 in the 
fourth schedule hereto.
   (vi) Entrance or readmission fees or special levies authoriz ed by the union's constitution or contributions 
to the Union's political fund shall not be deducted by way of check-oﬀ .
 
   (vii) (a) as far as practicable, deductions under an authori zation shall commence from the pay due 
immediately after the date of receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the 
authorization is canceled by a revocation. 
     (b) as far as practicable, deductions under an authorizati on shall cease from the date of receipt of 
revocation canceling such authorization. provided however.
      that the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whats oever to the union or the Employee 
concerned for failure to comply with paragraphs (a) or (b) abov e, that, in his discretion, the 
Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of che ck-oﬀ  in any month if the 
deduction by way of check-oﬀ  will together with all other deductions from an Employee's pay in 
that month exceed the deductions permitted by law.
   (viii) The Employer shall once each month within ﬁ  fteen (15) days after the regular pay day remit to the 
treasurer of the Union the total sums deducted by way of check- oﬀ  by a cheque drawn payable to 
''Food Beverages and Tobacco industries Employees Union'' and crossed account payee.
     (b) The cheque shall be sent, at the Union's risk, by post  in a pre-paid envelope addressed to the ''The 
Treasurer, Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees Unio n, No.513 2/1, Elvitigala 
Mawatha, Colombo 5''.
     (c) The treasurer of the union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
     (d) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the union or to the treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid 
any sum other than the actual deductions made.
   (ix) The Employer may suspend the operation of this clause a s hereinafter provided by notice in writing 
to the union.
     (a)  If the union or a Branch Union resorts to a strike or  any other form of trade Union action in 
breach of the terms or provissions of part I of this agreement the Employer may suspend the 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 33A
operation of this clause for such time as maybe decided by the Employer but not exceeding the 
duration of such strike or other form of trade union action. be fore such a decision is made the 
Employer and the union shall endeavour to eﬀ ect an amicable settlement.
     (b) If the union fails to maintain itself as a properly re gistered trade union under the trade union 
ordinance the Employer may decide to suspend the operation of this clause for such time as may 
by decided by the Employer.
     (c) If a decision is made by the Employer under paragraphs  (a) or (b) above, the Employer shall be 
absolved of complying with the provisions of this clause in acc ordance with the tenor of such 
decision.
Part III
CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
IN parts I and II of this agreement unless excluded by the subject or context the following words shall have the meaning set 
opposite the them:
  Words                       Meaning
 Industrial Disputes act - The Industrial Disputes Act, No.43 o f 1950
 The act    - The Shop & Oﬃ   ce Employees 
 Employment and    (Regulations of remuneration) Act, No.19 of 1954.
 The Federation  - The Employers' Federation of ceylon.
 The Union    -  The Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries    
    Employees Union.
 Branch Union  - The Branch the Food Beverages and Tobacco Indu stries
    Employees Union in the Establishment of the Employer
 Employe (for convenience
 sometimes referred to as ''he''
 its grammatical variations) -  The Employer bound by the Agree ment.
 Employee (for convenience
 sometimes referred to as ''he''
     - An Employee  covered and bound by this Agreement.
 or its grammatical variations
 Week    - The period between midnight on any saturday night an d
    midnight on the succeeding saturday night.
 weekly full holiday in respect of any week. - Shall have the m eaning as ''weekly holiday'' under Shop
    & Oﬃ   ce Employees Act.
 Weekly half holiday in respect of any week. - Shall have the s ame meaning as ''weekly half holiday''
    under shop & oﬃ   ce employees' act.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 34A
 Two such weekly holidays - Two full holidays or four half holi days or any combination of 
    full or half holiydays which does not exceed two full holid ays.
 Salary    - The monthly salary according to the scales of cons olidated 
    salaries
 Normal incremental date - The date on which the employee would  normally receive an 
    increment.
 Dispute    - A dispute or diﬀ  erence between the employer and an employee 
    or  between the branch union and the employer or between th e
    union and the employer on any matter covered by this 
    agreement or aﬀ  ecting the employees covered by this 
    agreement in relation to their employment under the employe r 
    covered by this agreement.
 Check-oﬀ      - The act of the employer deducting, at the request of the  union, 
    subscriptions payable to the union by an employee from the
    letter's pay with his concurrence.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.
Form No.1
Name of Employer :.........................................................................
AUTHORISATION
In pursuance of the agreement entered into between Finlays Colombo Limited and Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries 
Employees Union of which I am a member, please deduct from my p ay each month the sum of Rupees............(Rs ..........) 
and remit the same to the said union on my behalf in respect of  my curent monthly membership dues. the ﬁ  rst payment 
should please be made from my next pay following the date hereof:
...........................................................      ...............................................
 Date of Signing   (Signature of Employee)
.........................................................................................
(Full Name of Employee in Block Capitals)
...................................................................................................................  (Address of Employee)
Received On: ...................................................
(To be ﬁ lled by Employer)

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 35A
Form No. 2
Name of Employer : ..................................................................................................
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, please cea se to deduct from my pay any further membership dues in 
favour of The Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees Union with eﬀ ect from the next pay due to me immediately 
following the date hereof.
...........................................................      ...............................................
    (Date of Signing)  (Signature of Employee)
................................................................................................................................ (Full Name of Employee )
.................................................................................................................................. (Address of Employee)
Received On: ...................................................
(To be ﬁ lled by Employer)
Form No. 3
Name of Employer : ..................................................................................................
AMENDMENT OF AUTHORISATION
With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, please ded uct from my next pay following the date hereof Rupees 
(Rs...................) instead of rupees  (Rs................. ...)  as heretofore and remit the same to Food Beverages and To bacoco 
Industries Emloyees Union on my behalf in respect of my current monthly membership dues.
...........................................................      ...............................................
    (Date of Signing)  (Signature of Employee)
................................................................................................................................ (Full Name of Employee )
.................................................................................................................................. (Address of Employee)
Received On: ...................................................
(To be ﬁ lled by Employer)

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 36A
......................................................      ..............................................................
 Date of Signing             (Signature of Employee)
   
07 - 711

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 37A
 My No.: CI/546.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131  
The Collective Agreement entered into between Asian Paints (Lanka) Limited, No. 81, Koralawella Road, Moratuwa of the 
one part and the Samastha Lanka Welanda Ha Karmantha Kamkaru Sangamaya, No. 457, Dr. Colvin R De Silva Mawatha, 
Colombo 02 of the other part on 7th November 2019 is hereby pub lished in terms of Section 06 of the Indrustrial Disputes 
Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
23rd June, 2021.
Collective Agreement No. 14 of 2020
Collective Agreement
This Collective Agreement entered into in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act on this 7th day of November Two Thousand 
Nineteen, to take eﬀ fect from the 1st day of April Two Thousand Nineteen, between Asian Paints (Lanka) Limited, a Company 
duly registered under the Companies' Act and having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 81, Koralawella Road, Moratuwa, (hereinafter 
referred to as the Employer) of the One Part and the Samastha L anka Welanda Ha Karmantha Kamkaru Sangamaya (All 
Ceylon Commercial & Industrial Workers' Union) a Trade Union du ly registered under the Trade Unions' Ordinance and 
having its registered oﬃ  ce at No. 457, Dr. Colvin R. de Silva Mawatha, (Union Place), Colombo 2, (hereinafter referred to 
as the Union), of the Other Part.
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:-
Title : The collective Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Asian Paints (Lanka) Ltd. Employees' Collective 
Agreement 2019.
 1. EMPLOYEES' COVERED AND BOUND
  This Agreement shall cover and bind the Union and its members employed in the manual grades who are in service 
with the Employer, as at the date of signing this Agreement.
 2. DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION
  This Collective Agreement shall be eﬀ ective as from the 1st day of April Two Thousand and Nineteen,  and shall 
continue to be in force unless it is terminated by either party with three months' notice to the other, in writing, provided 
however that no such notice shall be given by either party, prior to 31st December Two Thousand Twenty- One, and 
such notice shall not take eﬀ ect and this Collective Agreement shall not stand terminated until the 31st day of March, 
Two Thousand Twenty- Two. Any notice of termination given by a party prior to the 31st day of December Two 
Thousand Twenty-One shall have no eﬀ ect whatsoever.

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 38A
 3. SALARIES
  The Employer shall increase the salaries of all employees cov ered and bound this Agreement as follows provided the 
employees continue to give the production targets as agreed and set out in Annexure 4 herein.
  Rs. 3,500/= with eﬀ  ect from 1st April 2019 for a period of one year.
  A salary increase of Rs. 3,500/= with eﬀ  ect from 1st April 2020 for a period of one year.
  A salary increase of Rs. 4,000/= with eﬀ  ect from 1st April 2021 for a period of one year.
  The salary point of each employee as at 1st April 2019, 1st A pril 2020 and 1st April 2021 is set out in Annexures 1, 
2  and 3 respectively, annexed to this Agreement.
 4. BUDGETARY RELIEF ALLOWANCE OF WORKERS ACT
  Parties are in agreement that since there is a Collective Agreement between parties, the Budgetary Relief Allowance 
of Workers Act, No. 36 of 2005, and the Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers Act, No. 4 of 2016, does not have 
any bearing in respect of this company and in any event, the sa lary increases granted as above whould set oﬀ  and 
mean and include the allowances applicable under the said laws.
  ARREARS
  IN respect of the salary increase of Rs. 3,500/= w.e.f. 1st A pril 2019 arrears would be paid eﬀ ective from 1st April 
2019 which would include EPF, ETF and other statutory beneﬁ ts.
 5. MEDICAL  ASSISTANCE
  The Employer shall arrange for the services of a General Medica l Practitioner once a year to conduct a medical 
check-up of workers and shall provide a sum of Rs. 12,400/= per  employee per annum as medical reimbursement. 
The employees would be entitled to reimburse the amount on the basis of Rs. 3,100/= per quarter.
 6. BONUS
  The company will continue to pay one (1) month's basic salary as bonus ex-gratia in December of each year.
 7. PRODUCTION BONUS
  Parties were in agreement to fully implement all the terms and conditions of the Production Bonus Scheme Currently 
in force  and the Union and agreed upon. A copy of the said production Bonus Scheme is annexed herewith as Annexure 4.
  The employer shall pay a Production Bonus per month to employ ees based on the following formula:
 
    a. An employee shall qualify to receive a production Bonus of Rs. 3,600/= if he works for 22 days or more 
in a month on regular working days(including holidays), and achieves the Production Bonus target on 
all the days he has reported for work.
   b. An employee shall qualify to receive a Production Bonus of Rs.  3,200/= if he works for 20 days or more 
in a month on regular working days (including holidays), and achieves the Production Bonus target on 
all the days he has reported for work.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 39A
   c. An employee shall qualify to receive a Production Bonus of Rs.  2,900/= if he  achived a production 
target of 18 days  or more in the month (work including holidays).
   d. An employee shall qualify to receive a production Bonus of Rs.  2,300/=, if he achived a production 
target of 14 days or more in a month (work including holidays).
   e. An employee does not qualify to receive a production Bonus if he has not achived a production target of 
14 days in a month.
   f. If an employee goes half day, he shall work and complete his w ork on pro- rata basis( of the desired 
Production output in a shift).
   * Average leave taken by an employee in a month has been con sidered in the above - mentioned targets.
 8. ATTENDANCE INCENTIVE
  The Employer shall pay an attendance incentive of Rs.400/= pe r month to employees, to enthuse attendance and 
eliminate absenteeism, on the following formula:-
 
  a) An employee shall qualify to receive an attendance incenti ve of Rs. 400/= per month, where they have 
reported to work on every  working day in that month,
   Working days shall exclude statutory and weekly holidays and  a maximum of a day's annual leave approved 
by the Management and taken during that month.
   Subject to the above, employees shall  be absent  for the pu rpose of this incentive scheme where they have 
been on leave of any description, i.e. annual, casual, sick or approved accident leave.
  b) The attendance incentive will be paid on reducing scale as  follows:-
LEA VE ABSENCE PER MONTH INCENTIVE PAYBLE
Half day (4 hours taken on one single Occasion or on a cumuative basis) Rs. 375/-
One day(8 hours)        Rs.350/-
One and half days (12 hours)      Rs.325/-
Two days (16 hours)       Rs.300/-
Employees who absent themselves from work on more than two days in a month will not be entitled to any incentive.
Any Employee who is placed on No Pay even half a day (1/2) in any month, will not be entitled to this incentive.
 9. GRANT OF LOANS
  The Employer shall give a workman a loan of three months' salary or Rs. 10,000/-, whichever is higher, to be recovered 
in 24 monthly installments, with interest at prevailing market rates, set by the Bank of Ceylon, subject to two guarantors.
  Those eligible to sign as guarantors for this loan will be as  follows:-

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 40A
  a)  A worker could obtain a loan and sign as a guarantor of o ne other worker.
OR
  b)  A worker who does not obtain a loan could sign as a guara ntor for two other.
 10. ANNUAL EXCURSION
  The Employer shall arrange only the transport for a two- day excursion and grant an annual excursion allowance, as 
follows, per employee:-
 Rs. 2,000/- for the ﬁ  rst year
 Rs. 2,000/- for the second year
 Rs. 2,000/- for the third year
In addition, the Employer agrees to grant two workers Rs. 2,000/- each for a pilot trip for the ﬁ rst year, Rs. 2,000/- each for  
the second year and Rs. 2,000/- each for the third year, for the purpose of organizing the trip. 
 
11.  DONATION TO THE DEPENDANTS OF DECEASED EMPLOYEES
  In the event of the unfortunate death of an employee, a payment would be made jointly by the Employer and Employees 
to the dependants of the deceased employee on the following basis:-
  The Employees would work on a holiday as a mark of respect to  the deceased employee and donate the day's wages to 
the family of the bereaved. The Company will contribute an equal amount as its contribution to the bereaved family.
 
  The payment as mentioned above would be made to a dependant n ominated by the employee concerned. All employees 
will be required to nominate the recipient who will be entitled to receive this payment on behalf of the dependants.
  The Management will contribute Rs. 40,000/- per year to the W orkers' Death Donation Fund. 
 12. SHIFT WORK
  The Employer has introduced a rostered two-shift work arrange ment with eﬀ ect from October 2001 in the factory and 
the employees are complying with same. The two-shift work arrangement shall be adopted by the Employer depending 
on the exigencies of business. The Shift hours will be as follows:- 
 Morning shift - 8.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m.
 Night shift - 8.00 p.m. to 5.00 a.m.
  The employees will be entitled to one break of half hour's du ration and two breaks of 15 minutes duration during the 
operation of the above-mentioned shifts. 
  The Employer shall pay a sum of Rs. 2,000/- Per month, per em ployee, during the months in which the factory works 
on the two-shift work arrangement as set out above. The employer shall also pay a sum of Rs. 20/- per employee per 
day to each employee who is rostered for work in the night shift and reports for same. The above payment on account 
of shift work shall not constitute a part of the earnings of employees and shall not attract any consequential payments 
such as Overtime, Provident Fund, Trust Fund, etc.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 41A
  The Employer reserves the right to revert to the general one- shift work arrangement at any time with notice to the 
employees. 
  The Following allowances will be paid to the employees on acc ount of overtime work performed after 8.00 p.m. 
during the operation of the general one-shift work allowance
 Transport Allowance - Rs. 75/-
 Dinner Allowance - Rs. 90/-
  If an employee works from 5.00 p.m. to 8.00 p.m, such employee would be eligible to obtain food upto the value of 
Rs. 40/= per day from the canteen.
  It was agreed that during night shift, workers in stores, N.C . Section and Technology Section would  be utilize  in 
other areas of  Production work depending on the requirements and workers agreed to this  condition in order to earn 
the shift allowance.
  In the event of the necessity to change the present shift tim ings, it was agreed that the union and Management would 
discuss and arrive at diﬀ erent shift timings without increase to the present  shift allowance.
 13. An employee could purchase paints only upto extent of his basi c salary of one month on the following basis per year:-
   (i) for the 1st 20 ltrs. of Paint    - 50% discount
   (ii) for the remainder of paint purchases  - 40% discount
 14. Productivity improvement in all areas.
  It was decided that the Management and Union will continue to strive to improve productivity.
 15. The Union and its members shall co - operative with the compan y in the maintenance of discipline, avoidance of 
waste, maintenance of safe working conditions, improvement of quality, improvement of productivity and Securing 
eﬃ  ciency in such manner as to augment the competitive strength of the Company.
 16. The Union and its members agree that during the period of this Agreement, they shall not seek to change or vary the 
terms of employment and shall not resort to any Trade Union action  or any matter covered herein.
  If Trade Union Action is to be taken on any matter, not cover ed by this Agreement, the Union shall  give written notice 
of 14 days to the Employer to enable a settlement of the Underlying dispute. Any breach of this Clause shall entitle the 
Employer to repudiate Agreement Forthwith.

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 42A
Annexure 4
ASIAN PAINTS LANKA LIMITED
SUMMARY   OF   PRODUCTIVITY   PROPOSAL   FOR   FACTORY   WORKERS   WATER   BASED
 a. Grinding & Thinning: To be completed as follows. (2 operators are involved for each machine)
  TSD/ PUG Mill: 2 wall putty or 3 wall ﬁ  ller batches or 4 emulsion batches per shift.
  DHC/DHV: 4 water based standard batches per shift
 b. Tinting : 3 full batches per shift per tinterman.
 c. Filling: 3 full batches to be ﬁ lled from each ﬁ lling point per shift. In case of wall putty 2 batches    
per one ﬁ lling point per shift. ( In all points same team should prepare the required packing     
materials) Assumed 2 operators involved in each ﬁ lling point.
  The following  points have been matually agreed with respect to emulsion ﬁ lling
   a) If the 3 loads to be ﬁ  lled are of diﬀ erent product shades, then the maximum number of 1L (one litre) 
packs shall not exceed 750 numbers in a shift
   b) If at least 2 out of the 3 loads to be ﬁ  lled are of the same product shade, then the maximum number of 1 
Litre packs shall not exceed 800 numbers.
   c) If the pack size to be ﬁ  lled is only 10 L/ 18L or 20L or a combination of the three then the ﬁ lling team 
shall complete4 loads in ashift.
In witness here of Parties have set their hands on this 7th day November Two Thousand Ninteen.

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 43A
   d) All the pans would be cleaned oﬀ   line by a separate person.
   e) The empty pans should be kept at the pan cleaning area as  soon as the ﬁ lling is over.
   f) When the ﬁ  lling is under progress, the wet paint sticking on the sides should be pushed down so as to 
ensure that the entire quantity of paint is ﬁ lled.
ENAMEL
 A.  PEARL MILLS:2 Tint bases/ whites (700lt batch) or 1 color per shift per machine (700lt)
  - Dynomill 2 color bates (700lt batch) per shift
 B. BALL  MILL  LOADING, UNLOADING AND THINING
   Loading or unloading one ball mill batch, perparation o fone  ancillary batch and Thinning down 2 standard enamel 
batches per shift. (Total operation with 2 workers) (One additional activity involved)
 C.   Tinting : 2 batches per shift per tinter.
 D.  Enamel Filling : Each ﬁ lling point (3 workers) shall adhere the following out put.
 To complete 1650 tins per day (with in 8 hours)
 When ﬁ  lling the 1650 tins, it will not be from more than 3 batches.
 Between the above batches it should be not more than 2 cleanin g sessions.
 If the pack size is only 4 liter, 3 loads would be ﬁ  lled in 8 hour shift provided maximum number of shades is 2
 After pasting the labels on tins it should be completed with p rice and batch number marking.
NC/ INDUSTRIAL/ WOOD
Production of total(NC/Wood and Industrial) 1200 liters or shift. ( This includes raw material issues / Dispersion and Thinning/ 
Tinting/ testing / perparation of packing material / packing) (Team of 12 workers)
PREPARATION OF LABELS:
One workman will participate. During the shift need to complete labels for 12 full batches without interrupting the operation.
RAW MATERIAL ISSUES
18 Full batches to be issued to production ﬂ oor per shift. (One workmen shall complete 4 1/2 batches per shift) (4workers). In 
addition unloading and staking raw materials received from supplier.
FINISHED GOODS HANDING
Loading/acceptance 13000 liters of ﬁ nish goods with in the shift with 5 workers for delivery and distribution. If the loading / 
acceptance amount is less than 13000 liters to clean stores/ repacking ﬁ nish goods to be done.
Q.C. Laboratory:
Corporate and assist production ﬂ oor and laboratory to test and complete all day's batches (2 workers)
GOODS TRANSFER PERSONNEL
100% clearance of all ﬁ nish goods during the day's production within the shift
MAINTENANCE SECTION
All scheduled maintenance to be carried out for all machinery a s per instructions without interrupting operation. All small
machinery defects to be rectiﬁ ed and repaired within 4 hours.

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 44A
DURING OVER TIME
The desired production out put during over time shallbe calculated on prorata basis (of the standard shift out put) This production 
out put during over time has to be achieved in order to earn production bonus for the month.
GENERAL FOR ALL STAGES
 • If there is delay in input for any stages workers must invol e in other work speciﬁ ed by the supervisor. Eg. 
Machine cleaning, cleaning working area, cleaning untensils or work in some other area where service are 
required.
 • All operatos must clean respective working area and utensils  used for production operation in the day within 
the shift.
 • All operatos shall make sure all equipments and utensils are  used in proper manner to ensure smooth operation 
in the production ﬂ oor.
 • In all respective activation must carry out as per the stand ard speciﬁ ed for products and services.

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 45A


<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 46A


<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2021'07'20
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 20.07.2021
 47A
07-712
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.