

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by the Hon. S. M. Marikkar, M.P.  for
Colombo District on 15th November, 2016
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 149]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on October 17, 2016)
THE INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Institute of Certified Public Accountants
2—PL 004850—225 (11/2016)

<!-- page 2 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 004850—225 (11/2016)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS
WHEREAS a Institute called and known as the “The Institute
of Certified Public Acctountants” has heretofore been formed
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
objects and matters connected  with the said Institute
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Institute  has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was created and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be for the public advantage to grant the application:
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as The Institute of Certified
Public Acctountants (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of  The
Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter
referred to as the “Association”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Institute hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate, (hereinafter referred as the “Corporation”) with
perpetual succession under the name and style of “The Institute
of Certified Public Acctountants” and by that name and may
sue and be sued with full power and to authority to have and to
use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide a professional organization in accounting,
business and finance for people of ability around the
world to advance the theory and practice of
accounting, business and finance in all aspects and
to support its members throughout their careers to
advance the public interest;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of The
Institute of
Certified
Public
Accountants.
Objects of the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to promote for the public benefit the art and science
of accounting in relation to the Applied Sciences, the
arts, the trades and professions, the administration of
government and public services, industry and
Commerce and to advance public education
thereon;
(c) to support the lifelong development of accountants
and to raise standards of accounting performance and
to provide training and development opportunities
for individual accountants;
(d) to promote and develop the study of Accountancy;
and to encourage the application of correct principles,
techniques and practices of Accountancy;
(e) to take necessary steps to promote the profession of
Accountancy in its practice to industry, commerce,
education, finance, public service, public practice and
information technology;
(f) to conduct a Certified Public Accounting Program
leading to the Professional Accounting qualification
and to take steps  to emphasize the improtance of
such a qualification;
(g) to consider questions affection the interests of the
profession at large and to support or to oppose
legislation or changes in law or practice;
(h) to produce members with excellent accountancy and
many associated and leadership skills;
(i) to advance accounting and associated or connected
subjects as applied to all or any of the professional
services provided by accountants, whether engaged
in public practice, industry and public service in
Sri Lanka and throughout the world;
30

<!-- page 4 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(j) to provide members with a qualification equal to the
international standards and continuously keep pace
with relevant events, disseminate ideas and concepts
to enable members to acquire necessary knowledge
to keep pace with development and innovation in
the world;
(k) to protect and preserve the professional independence
of accountants and to exercise professional
supervision over them ; to promote and maintain high
professional standards of practice and to do all such
things as may advance and protect the character of
the accountancy profession, whether in relation to
public practice or service;
(l) to develop the accountancy profession in Sri Lanka
to keep pace with accountancy professions in the
world according to the highest technical and ethical
standards;
(m) to provide for post qualifying professional
development programmes for members at both Masters
and Doctorate levels;
(n) to undertake and regulate the professional education
and practical training of persons who seek to qualify
as Certified Public Accountants and to approve a
practical Training Scheme to be followed by the
students;
(o) to prescribe and approve courses of study being
conducted by the Institute, taking into consideration
its functions in relation to education, training and
examination;
(p) to conduct examinations for the grant of the required
professional qualifications and to collaborate with
recongnized local and foreign professional and
educational Institutions to conduct courses in
Accountancy which lead to exemptions from the
Institute’s examinations;
30
35

<!-- page 5 -->

4 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(q) to promote, collaborate and assist in the study of
Accountancy at Universities and other Higher
Educational Institutions;
(r) to prescribe the qualifications and disqualifications
applicable for membership of the Institute and to
establish standards of professional conduct and ethics
for members of the Institute;
(s) to organize, supervise and regulate continuing
professional education for the benefit of the
members;
(t) to maintain library of both print and electronic media,
books and periodicals, relating to Accountancy and
related subjects for the use of members, students and
those interested in the field of Accountancy, Business
and Finance;
(u) to grant scholarships, awards and prizes for those who
excel in the field of Public Accountancy;
(v) to award Diploma and Certificates to the members of
the Institute and to those who fulfill the conditions
prescribed by the Institute;
(w) to be a centre for accountancy development and to
pioneer the cause of the profession;
(x) to develop partnership with all organizations that
share our dedication to enhancing economic and
social well being through inspiring leadership and
excellent management;
(y) to identify and train accountants best equipped to
deliver results in all sectors of industry, from large
multinationals to SMEs and from providers of public
service to professional firms and non profit
organizations;
30

<!-- page 6 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
5
(z) to stimulate interest in the importance of accountancy
education as a tool to effective management;
(aa) to enable accountants, whether members or otherwise,
and directors and senior management of organizations
to communicate, meet and exchange information by
such means as conferences, meetings, lectures,
seminars and discussions;
(bb) to hold conferences, meetings and seminars and other
events and to promore the reading of learned papers;
(cc) to act as a spokesman on behalf of the accountancy
profession,  on  matters  whether  regulatory  or
otherwise affecting their business and operating
environment;
(dd) to maintain contact, consult and co-operate with any
persons, societies, institutes, institutions and
government authorities and agencies whether based
in Sri Lanka or elsewhere in the world having objects
wholly or partly similar to those of the Institute and
to  represent  the  profession  of   accountancy  in
Sri Lanka internationally;
(ee) to foster contact between people in accountancy by
the exchange of ideas and experiences and to be
concerned in aspects of legislation enacted in that
area of practice;
(ff) to facilitate the exchange of views and opinions to
promote a better understanding of subject of
accounting and problems connected therewith;
(gg) to provide in-company tailored training programmes
and to offer training and development opportunities
for individual accountants;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
(hh) to print, publish, produce and distribute or assist in
the publication of literature, booklets and other forms
of communication in furtherance of the objectives of
the Institute;
(ii) to conduct or promote the conduct of research and
publish the useful results of such research and to
provide facilities for study, research and education;
(jj) to publish, produce and distribute or assist in the
publication production or distribution of films,
recording and any form of written, printed or
electronic communication and to advertise in any
manner expedient for the objects;
(kk) to establish and maintain libraries and to provide
public access to them;
(ll) to provide leadership in accounting research and
education;
(mm) to provide members with the resources, information
and leadrship that enable them to provide valuable
services in the highest professional manner to benefit
the public as well as employers and clients;
(nn) to promote public awareness and confidence in
the integrity, objectivity, competence and
professionalism of Certified Public Accountants
(CPAs) and monitor the needs and views of CPAs;
(oo) to encourage highly qualified individuals to become
CPAs and support the development and academic
programmes;
(pp) to establish professional standards, assist members in
continually improving their professional conduct,
performance and expertise and monitor such
performance to enforce current standards and
requirements;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
7
(qq) to foster meaningful advocacy for maintaining the
highest standard of financial reporting;
(rr) to prescribe standards of education, training and
experience in Accountancy and to hold examinations
and other tests and to award certificates, diploma and
degrees;
(ss) to strengthen investor confidence by enhancing the
quality of audits;
(tt) to undertake perpetual improvements to business
reporting process that build upon the current model
to address the complexities facing Institutes and to
move towards a real-time, broad-based business
reporting system that is comprehensive,
uderstandable and accountable to investors;
(uu) to assist in the maintenance of standards for entry to
the profession to develop and improve accounting
education and to encourage cordial relations between
CPAs and other professional accountants in Sri Lanka
and other countries;
(vv) to enter into agreements, affiliations, validations,
collaborations and partnerships with different
universities in particular members of Commonwealth
Universities, North American Universities and
Academic Institutions for the purpose of conducting
courses leading to accountancy and other associated
disciplines qualifications at diploma, undergraduate
and postgraduate levels;
(ww) to work with independent training organizations with
in house training facilities, to deliver Institute
approved tarining and development programmes and
award qualifications;
(xx) to establish and operate public training and education
centres;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

8 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
(yy) to encourage the study of accounting to promote and
support the provisions of complementary services; to
establish and maintain lectures, courses and classes,
either independently or with others for members of
the Institute or the public at large, and to provide
prizes or other rewards or distinctions, to disseminate
professional and other information to members; to
establish, subscribe and give support to libraries and
publications; to compile and make available forms
or precedents for the use of members;
(zz) to organize workshops, conferences and seminars
to disseminate accounting and management
knowledge;
(aaa) to ensure members enroll in and Institute approved
practice monitoring programme;
(bbb) to procure the Institute to be registered, incorporated
or otherwise empowered or represented or to open
liaison offices in any country or place outside the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka;
(ccc) to maintain liaison and affiliation with other related
organizations and to enter into contract or agreement
with persons or organizations in Sri Lanka or
elsewhere in pursuance of the vision and objectives
of the Institute;
(ddd)  to establish, regulate and dissolve sub-divisions of
the Institute in any part of the world;
(eee) to encourage the undertaking of voluntary work in
the interests of the Institute;
(fff) to establish and support, or aid in the establishment
and support of , or become a member of any Institute
or institution having charitable objects similar to
those of the Institute and to subscribe or guarantee
money for charitable purposes calculated to further
its objects;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
9
(ggg) to acquire, construct, alter equip, maintain or manage
any building, lecture hall, library, or office and to
acquire or dispose of any land for the purposes of the
Institute, and to insure any building owned or
occupied by the Institute against any eventuality or
liability;
(hhh) to import equipment required for the purpose of the
Institute, and receive equipment, funds and any other
assistance for carrying out the objects of the Institute;
(iii) to receive, purchase, take on lease, licence, hire, sell
or acquire all forms of properties both movable or
immovable, shares in commercial, industrial and
banking enterprise and to accept property bequeathed
by deed, last will of codicil;
(jjj) to purchase or otherwise acquire and undertake all or
any part of the property, assets, liabilities and
engagements of any person, or body with which the
Institute is authorized to amalgamate;
(kkk) to transfer all or any part of the property, assets,
liabilities and engagements of the Institute to any
person or body with which the Institute is authorized
to amalgamate;
(lll) subject to such consents as may be required by law to
sell, let, mortage, dispose of all or any of the property
or assets of the Institute;
(mmm) to take over and acquire all the properties and assets
and to assume and settle all the liabilities and
obligations of the Association and to do all such acts
and things as may be incidental thereto;
(nnn) to receive or collect grants, gifts, donations, subsidies,
endowments and subscriptions whether in cash or in
material from donors in Sri Lanka or elsewhere;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 11 -->

10 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
(ooo) in general to undertake such other lawful things
(including the promotion of a bill or bills in
Parliament) from time to time as are incidental or
conducive and shall be deemed necessary for
promotion of the ideas and objects of the Institute;
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall have the power—
(a) to acquire, rent, construct and otherwise obtain lands
or buildings which may be required for the purposes
of the Institute;
(b) to give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge, sell or
othewise dispose of, any movable or immovable
property;
(c) to borrow or raise money form banks and other
Government approved financial institutions (foreign
and local) on such terms and conditions and with or
without security and to receive assistance for the
purposes of the Institute;
(d) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instrument and
to open, operate, maintain and close bank accounts;
(e) to invest any funds which are not immediately
required for the purposes of the Institute in such a
manner as the Council or Institute may deem fit;
(f) pay fees or charges for any services rendered to the
Institute;
(g) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,
company or body of persons;
5
10
15
20
25
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 12 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
11
(h) to appoint, employ, exercise disciplinary control,
dismiss or terminate the services of officers and
servents of the Institute and to pay them such salaries,
allowances and gratuities as may be determined by
the Institute;
(i) to obtain services of personnel to carry out the objects
of the Institute;
(j) to establish work performance standards for its own
personnel, evaluate such performance and take
reasonable action thereupon;
(k) to establish and maintain welfare and recreational
facilities for its employees;
(l) to fix the wages, salaries or other remuneration of the
staff;
(m) to determine the terms and conditions of service of
such staff;
(n) to establish and regulate provident funds and
schemes for the benefit of such staff and make
contributions to any such fund or scheme;
(o) to make rules in relation to its officers and servants
including the appointment, training, promotion,
remuneration, disciplinary control, conduct and grant
of leave;
(p) to establish and operate management training and
education centers;
(q) to conduct, assist, co-ordinate and encourage research
into all aspects of management;
(r) levy fees or charges for any service rendered by the
Institute;
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 13 -->

12 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(s) to issue guidelines and standards in Accounting for
the members of the Institute;
(t) to defend the intellectual property rights of the
Institute;
(u) (i) to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law
for the management of the Institute and
accomplishment of its objects;
(ii) these rules when made may be altered, added,
amended or rescinded, in the manner provided
for herein;
(v) to perform and execute all other acts and things as
are necessary or desirable for the attainment of the
objects of the Institute.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation be
administered by a Governing Council (hereinafter referred
to as the “Council”) consisting of—
(a) President and Vice-President elected by the fellow
members of the institute among its fellow
membership;
(b) the following ex-officio members:—
(1) President / Chairman of one of the major
Chambers of Commerce in Sri Lanka or his
nominee;
(2) head of the Faculty of Accounting & Finance of
one of the Sri Lankan Universities or his
nominee;
(3) the Registrar General of Companies or his
nominee;
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 14 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
13
5
10
15
20
25
30
(4) Commissioner General of Inland Revenue of Sri
Lanka or his nominee.
(c) two members elected by the members of the Institute
among its membership;
(d) three members of the Board of Founder Directors of
the Association holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of the coming into
operation of this Act. These members shall be
nominated by the members of the Board of Founder
Directors for a period of two years and could be
reappointed any number of times during the life time
of the Founder Board member.
(e) three members of the Advisory Council of the
Association holding office on the  date of the coming
into operation of this Act. The members shall be
nominated by the members of the former Advisory
Council for a period of two years at a time and could
be reappointed any number of times during the life
time of the Advisory Council member.
(2) The members of the Advisory Council and five
Directors from the Board of Directors of the Institute of
Certified Public Accountants holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of the coming into operation
of this Act, shall be the members of the first Council of the
Institute established herein and shall hold office for a period
of five years.
(3) Elections for the election of members in terms of
paragraphs (a) and (c) of subsection (1) shall be conducted
in accordance with the rules of the Council.
6. (1) Every member of the Council shall, unless he
earlier vacates office, hold office for a period of two years
from the date of his appointment or election as the case may
be:
Terms of the
office of
members of
the Council.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Provided however, that the members appointed under
subsection (2) of this section holding office at the expiration
of period of five years from the date referred to in that
subsection shall thereupon vacate office, but shall be eligible
for re-election.
(2) A member of the Council shall vacate office by
resignation there from and also in the case of paragraphs (a)
and (c) of subsection (1) of section (5), if he ceases to be a
member of the Institute.
(3) In the event of the death of, or vacation of office by a
member of the Council, another person shall, in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4, be appointed or elected, as
the case may be, in place of such member, and shall hold
office during the remaining part of the term of office of such
member.
(4) Any member of the Council who vacates office by
effluxion of time shall be eligible for reappointment or re-
election as a member.
(5) A member of the Council shall be deemed to have
vacated office on failure to attend for consecutive meetings
of the Council unless excused by the Council and also in
the case of paragraphs (a) and (c) of subsection (1) of section
(5), upon such member ceasing to be a member of the Institute.
7. (a) The Council may appoint to the staff of the
Corporation, a Chief Executive Officer who shall administer
the affairs of the Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer
may be a Council Member.
(b) The Chief Executive Officer shall exercise, perform
and discharge such powers, duties and functions as may be
delegated to him.
(c) The Council may remove from office of the Chief
Executive Officer appointed under subsection ( a).
Appointment
of the Chief
Executive
Officer of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 16 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
15
5
10
15
20
25
30
(d) The Chief Executive Officer may be paid such
remuneration as may be determined by the Council.
8. (a) The Council may delegate to the Chief Executive
Officer any of its powers relating to the appointment of other
officers or servants to the staff of the Institute. The conditions
of employment including remuneration of any of the
members of the professional staff appointed by the Chief
Executive Officer under the powers delegated to him shall
be determined  with the approval of the Council.
(b) The dismissal by the Chief Executive Officer or any
officer or servant or any member of the professional staff of
the Corporation shall not take effect unless it is approved by
the Council.
9. (1) It shall be lawful for the Institute from time to
time at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of member, their admission, withdrawal,
expulsion for non payment of membership fees or
resignation;
(b) appointment, employment and dismissal of various
officers, agents and servants of the Institute, their
powers, duties, functions and conduct and the
payment of remuneration and the regulation of
provident funds and other schemes for their benefit;
(c) the fixing of the student registration fees, annual
subscription exam fees, lecture fees, prices of study
texts and other publications;
(d) appointment of committees and sub-committees of
the Council consisting of members of the Council
and the membership of the Corporation to deal with
specific subjects and the regulation of the functions
of such committees;
Delegation of
powers of the
Council to
the Chief
Executive
Officer in
regard to
appointments.
Rules of the
Institute.
35

<!-- page 17 -->

16 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation;
(f) the procedure to be observed at the summoning
and holding of meetings, Annual General meetings
and Extraordinary Meetings of the Corporation,
filling of vacancies, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereat;
(g) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership of the Institute;
(h) the setting up of disciplinary committees and
formulation of code of ethics and the exercise of
disciplinary control over the members, disciplinary
procedure and expulsion of members or suspension
of membership; and
(i) the entry criteria for admission of students for the
Certified Public Accountancy (CPA) Programme.
(2) The rules of the Association in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law be deemed to be the rules of the
Corporation and may be amended, altered, added to or
rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as a rule made
under subsection (1).
(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
10. (1) The meeting of the Council shall be held at least
once in two months.
(2) At least seven day’s notice of every meeting of the
Council shall be given in writing to each of the members,
and such notice shall specify the business to be dealt with at
such meeting.
Meetings of
the Council.

<!-- page 18 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
17
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) The president of the Council shall summon a special
meeting of the Council within seven days after being
requested in writing to do so by five members of the Council.
(4) The quorum for a general meeting of the Council shall
be three members present in person or by proxy.
(5) Every member who attends a meeting of the Council
shall be paid a fee re-imbursement of any expenses incurred
in attending such meeting, in such amount as may be
determined by the Council.
(6) The President of the Council shall preside at meetings
of the Council and in the absence of the President from any
meeting of the Council a member chosen by the majority of
members present shall preside at such meeting.
(7) If the President of the Council is by reason of illness
or other infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office the Council may
appoint one of the members to act in his place.
(8) Where there is an equality of votes on any matter of
thing decided at a meeting of the Council, the President at
such meeting shall, in addition to his vote, have a casting
vote.
(9) Subject to the provisions herein contained, the
Council may determine its own procedure for the transaction
of business of the Council.
11. (a) Requirements needed to become a member of
the Corporation:—
1. to have passed the final examination conducted by
the Council under this Act;
2. to have gained a minimum of three year’s relevant
practical experience;
Eligibility
for
membership
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
3. to have submitted a satisfactory records of practical
experience;
4. to be not less than 21 years of age; and
5.  to have completed the Professional Ethics Module.
(b)  Any person who is a member of any professional body
of Accountants by whatever name called and which is
approved by rules made be the Council for the time being,
and such Association is, in the opinion of the Council and
Association of equivalent status to the Institute.
12. (a) The members of the Corporation shall comprise
Fellow Members and Associated members.
(b) A student on completion of all examinations of the
Institute and acquiring a minimum of three years of practical
experience in an approved sector as prescribed by the
Council upon application being made to the Council and
payment to the Council of the prescribed fee shall be eligible
for registration as an Associate of the Institute by the
Council. Such member shall upon registration by the Council
as an Associate of the Corporation be entitled to use the
addition “CPA” after his name.
(c) Any member of the Corporation who satisfies the
Council that he has been a Senior Accountant in responsible
position or Consultant in public practice, industry,
commerce, public sector or a lecturer in education for not
less than five years with a minimum of three years Senior
Management position and who has fulfilled such
requirements as may be prescribed by the Council shall be
eligible for registration as a Fellow of the Institute by the
Council. Any person eligible for registration may forward
an application to the Council for registration along with the
prescribed fee. A member shall upon registration by the
Council as a Fellow of the Institute be entitled to use the
addition “CPA” together with if desired (Fellow) after his
name.
Classification
of members.

<!-- page 20 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
19
5
10
15
20
25
(d) Every associate and fellow Member of the Corporation
shall be entitled to take and use the title “Certified Public
Accountant  (CPA)”.
(e) No person not being a Member of the Institute shall
take or use the title “Certified Public Accountant  (CPA)” or
any addition mentioned in subsection ( b) and (c) above.
13. (1) No person shall take or use any title either by
description or abbreviation or the logo of the Corporation
unless such person is eligible under section 12 (d) and has
been authorized in writing by the Council of the Corporation
to do so.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (l) shall be guilty of an offence.
14. The Council, subject to the rules, regulations and
Constitution of the Corporation shall have the power to
create such other categories of membership as it may think
fit.
15. No act or proceeding of the Corporation shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy in the Council or defect in the appointment of any
member of the Council.
16. (1) It shall be lawful for the Council to appoint an
Advisory Board consisting of not more than ten eminent
persons for a period not exceeding two years. The council
may at its discretion seek the views and advice of the
Advisory Board, but it shall in no way be bound to accept or
execute any such advice.
Use of titles
and Logo.
Acts or
proceedings
of the
Corporation
deemed not
to be invalid
by reason of
any vacancy
or defect in
the
appointment
of a
members.
Appointment
of and
Advisory
Board.
Powers of the
Council.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
(2) The members of the Advisory Council and five
Directors from the Board of Directors of the “The Institute of
Certified Public Accountants” holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of the coming into operation
of this Act, shall be the members of the first Council of the
Corporation established herein and shall hold office for a
period of five years.
17. The Council may from time to time invite
distinguished local or foreign persons of eminence having a
professional background to serve as Patrons of the
Corporation. They shall not be required to pay any entrance
fees or annual subscriptions.
18. All or any of the members of the Council may be
paid such remuneration out of the funds of the Corporation
as may be determined by the Council.
19. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gift, testamentary, dispositions,
transfers, donations, contribution of fees and all sums of
money received by the Corporation in the exercise, discharge
and performance of its powers, functions and duties shall be
deposited in the name of Institute in one or more banks as
may be decided by the Council.
(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise of the powers of the Corporation shall be paid out
of the fund.
(3) The Council may invest moneys of the fund in any
securities issued or guaranteed  by the Government of
Sri Lanka.
20. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of the commencement of this
Act, shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to and all subscription and
fees payable to the Association on that day shall be paid to
the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
Patrons of
the
Corporation.
Remuneration
of members
of the
Council.
Fund of the
Institute.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 22 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
21
21. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2)  The Council shall cause proper accounts to kept of
its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all
other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by a qualified auditor.
(4) In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —
(i) an individual who being a member of the
institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by  such and institute; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
22. (1) Any contract entered with on behalf of the
Corporation may be made as follows:—
(a) if made between private persons, would by law be
required to be in writing may be made on behalf of
the Corporation in writing under the common seal
of the Corporation;
(b) if made between private persons, would by law be
required to be in writing signed by the parties to be
charged therewith, may be made on behalf of the
Corporation in writing signed by any person or
persons duly authorized thereto by the Corporation;
Contracts of
the
Corporation.
Audit of
accounts of
the Institute.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 23 -->

22 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
(c) if made between private persons, would by law  be
valid though made orally and not reduced into
writing may be made orally on behalf of the
Corporation by any person or persons duly
authorized thereto by the Corporation;
(2) A contract made according to this section shall be
effectual in law and shall bind the Institute and all persons
thereto and their legal representatives.
23. (1) No person who is a member of the Institute or is
a partner of any Firm of Accountants shall practice as an
Accountant unless he is the holder of a certificate to practice
which is for the time being in force.
(2) Every certificate to practice shall be issued by the
Council upon payment of the prescribed fee; difference fees
may be prescribed in respect of Fellows, Associate Members,
and partners of any Firm of Accountants.
(3) Every certificate to practice shall be in force until the
thirty-first day of December of the year of issue of that
certificate, and may from time to time be renewed upon
payment of the fee prescribed as provided in subsection (2).
(4) Where each of the partners in a firm of accountants is
the holder of a certificate to practice, no such certificate
shall be required to authorize the firm to practice as
accountants.
24. (1) No civil or criminal proceedings shall be
instituted:
(a) against the Corporation for any lawful act which in
good faith is done or purported to be done by the
Corporation under this Act; or
(b) against any member, officer, servant or agent for
any act which in good faith is done or purported to
Restrictions
on practice as
Accountants.
Protection of
acts done
under this
Act or on the
direction of
the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 24 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
23
be done by such member, officer, servant or agent
under this Act or on the directions of the Council as
the case may be.
(2) Any expense incurred by any person specified in
subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought against
such person before any Court for any act done under this Act
or on the direction of the Institute shall if the Court
determines that such act was done in good faith be paid out
of the Fund of the Corporation.
25. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against a member of the Council in any action brought
against the Corporation.
26. Every person who commits an offence under this
Act shall on conviction after trial before a Magistrate be
liable to imprisonment of either description for a period not
exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding five hundred
rupees or to both such fine and imprisonment.
27. (1) For the purpose of this Act, a person shall be
deemed to practice as an Accountant if, in consideration of
remuneration received or to be received and whether by
himself or in partnership with any other person, he:
(a) engage himself in practice of accountancy or holds
himself out to the public as an accountant; or
(b) offers to perform/performs service involving the
auditing or verification of financial transactions,
books of accounts or records, or the preparation,
verification, or certification of financial accounting
and related statements; or
(c) renders professional or assistants in or about matters
of principle or details relating to accounting procedure
or certification of financial facts or data; or
No writ to
issue against
person or
property of a
member of
the Council.
Offences and
penalties.
Definition of
practice as
Accountants.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 25 -->

24 The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
(d) renders any other service which may declared by
the council by regulation to be service constituting
practice as an Accountant,
(2) A person who is the salaried employee of the
Government or of any one employer shall not, by reason
only that he does any act referred to in subsection (1) in his
capacity as such employee, be deemed to practice as an
Accountant.
28. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules of the
Institute who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as witness.
29. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any
property whatsoever such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
transferred to some other Corporation or Corporations having
objects similar to the objects of the Corporation and which
is or are by the rules there of prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
Association or Associations shall be determined by members
of the Corporation at or immediately before the time of
dissolution of the Corporation.
30. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic of Sri Lanka or of any body
politic or corporate or any other person.
31. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 26 -->

The Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(Incorporation)
25
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .