

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1668
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1660 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"452 – 2025 wf.daia;= ui 29 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'08'29
No. 2,452 –  FRIDAY, AUGUST, 29, 2025
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  "GAZETTE"
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th September, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th August, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 S. D. Pandikorala (Acting),
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
09th June, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1657 - B 082714 -  (08/2025)
N. B.–  Parts II and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2451 of 22.08.2025 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1658
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1659
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1660
Post - Vacant
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government
Registrar General’s Department
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF CLASS I OF THE REGISTRAR SERVICE OF THE REGISTRAR 
GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT UNDER MERIT SCHEME-2025
APPLICATIONS are called, on the direction of the Public Service Commission, from the officers who are in active service 
as on the last date of calling applications with the following qualifications to fill 03 vacancies existing in Class I of Grade III 
of the Registrar Service in the Registrar General’s Department, under Merit Scheme.
(a) The Closing date of calling application is 26.09.2025.
Note: No complaints shall be considered to the effect that an application or related documents connected therewith were lost 
or delayed in the post. Any loss that may cause due to the delay in submitting the application until the closing date will have 
to be borne by the applicants, themselves.
01. Method of Recruitment 
The candidates among who have been completed the qualifications mentioned in the notice, the candidates who will 
be obtained highest marks on the result of structured   interview of which marks will be given for service experience 
and skills , conducted by an interview board which is appointed by the Public Service Commission, after confirmed 
by the appointing authority by examining so as to complete the relevant other  qualifications,  will be  recruited for the 
vacancies . The structured interview will be held in accordance with the procedure of awarding marks approved by the 
Public Service Commission. (mentioned under No.05).
The effective date of the appointment will be the date on which the appointment letters are issued or a later date as 
decided by the Public Service Commission.
02. Conditions of deploying in the Service and Service Conditions :
 I. This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution should be made to the widows' and orphans' Pension 
Scheme.
 II. The officers appointed for this post is subject to a probation period of one year.
 III. In accordance with the provisions of Public Administrative Circulars 18 /2020 and dated 16.10.2020, and 
circulars thereof, language proficiency of prescribed other official language/languages should be obtained.
 IV . This appointment will be subject to the conditions, orders No. PSC/EST/2/1/25/1/4/2011, approved by the Public 
Service Commission  and  the orders and conditions in the service minutes of  the executive service of the 
Registrar General’s Department dated 22.10.2013, the amendments that have already been made or could be 
made in future to the same service minute, general orders and conditions governing the appointments of the 
public service,  Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, provisions of the Establishments Code 
and Financial Regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and also to other departmental 
conditions, orders.
 V . Should pass the First Efficiency Bar examination in accordance with the service minute within three years (03) 
from appointing of Grade III of Class I of the Registrar Service.
 VI. It is not allowed to change the language medium applied later and the language medium eligible for your 
appointment is the language mentioned in the application by you.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1661
03. Salary Scale.
As per the provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025, the monthly salary scale 
applicable to this post is Rs. 82,150 -10x2,400 - 8x2,940 - 17x3,900 - 195,970/- (SL-1-2025). In accordance with the 
provisions of the above mentioned circular, you will be paid as per Schedule III thereof.
04. Qualifications 
4.1 Educational Qualifications
 Not applicable
4.2 Experience
(a) Shall have completed a minimum service period of eight (08) years in the Service Category of the Grade II 
of the Registrar Service (Management Assistant-Supra Grade Service Category) by the closing date of the 
application.
4.3 Physical Suitability
 Every candidate should be physically and mentally sound enough to serve in any part of the Island, perform duties 
of the post.
4.4 Other Qualifications
• Applicants should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
• Applicants must be of excellent character.
• Should not have any disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions mentioned in Public Service 
Commission Circular No.01/2020 and amendments therein.
• All qualifications specified in the recruitment procedure must be fulfilled in every respect by the closing date for 
applications.
4.5 Age Limit
 Not applicable
05. Structured Interview 
The detailed marks awarding procedure in the structured interview.
 
Serial No. Subject Marks Maximum 
Marks
01 Service Experience
In addition to the basic qualification mentioned 4.2 above, 
marks will be given for active and satisfactory service period. 
Accordingly, when giving marks for the additional service period, 
full marks will be awarded for the officer with maximum active 
and satisfactory service period, and awarding marks will be done 
for additional service period for the other officers proportionately. 
(Marks will be awarded only for the service period of 06 months 
or above) in accordance with the Circular No.01/2019 and the 
provisions of the amendments thereof.
50

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1662
Serial No. Subject Marks Maximum 
Marks
02. Skill 
2.1  Professional Qualifications
For a qualification of Post Graduate Diploma or a qualification 
higher than that in management, human resources, or law 
obtained from a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or an institute recognized as a degree 
awarding institute by the same Commission or government 
recognized higher educational institute.
2.2 Knowledge in subject matters and rules and regulations 
relevant to the post.
   I. Knowledge in the subject matter relevant to the registration 
of marriages, births and deaths and rules and regulations.
 II. Knowledge in the subject matter relevant to the registration 
of documents and rules and regulations
III. General office administration knowledge.
05
10
10
10
35
  03 Language Skills
(a)  A degree including English as a main subject obtained 
from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission.
(b) Diploma in English obtained from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or a 
diploma obtained for English language  obtained from 
other government training / an institute affiliated to a 
government training institute completing minimum of 
1500 hours course. 
(c) To have a minimum of Very good pass in the G.C.E. 
(Advance level) examination (Local or London) for 
English language or total mark for IELTS score 6.5 or 
above, TOEFL-IBT score  79 or above, TOEFL-CBT 
score  213 or above or TOEFL -PBY score 550 or above.
(d) Diploma  certificates more than three (03) months  in 
English obtained from a university recognized by the 
University Grants Commission( marks will be awarded 
maximum two certificates, by 01 mark for each certificate) 
05
04
03
02
05
04 Computer knowledge
(Knowledge in Information Technology) 
(a) Studied information technology or computer science as 
a main subject for a degree in a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission
(b) A diploma in information and communication technology 
obtained from a university recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or other government recognized 
professional institute.
05
04
05

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1663
Serial No. Subject Marks Maximum 
Marks
(c) A Diploma in computer science or information and 
communication technology obtained from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or a 
diploma in computer science or information technology 
in NVQ level 5 or higher than that obtained from other 
institution.
(d) Certificates obtained by following courses / participating 
training programmes in the field of information and 
communication technology in a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or other government 
recognized institute.
(Marks will be awarded for maximum 2 certificates by 01 marks 
for each certificate)
Note: Marks will be awarded only for the highest qualification.
03
02
05 Evaluation of the Interview Board 
   I.   Leadership
 II.   Communication Skills 
III.   Personality 
02
02
01
05
Total 100
** Only the candidates, who are only in the service on the date of conducting interview, will be called for the structured 
interview.
06. Method of Application
6.1 A specimen application form for applying this interview is given at the end of this notice. The applicant should 
prepare their own application only in accordance with the specimen application form.
6.2 The application should be prepared on the A4 paper of 22x29 cm by using both sides, and  Headings 1.0-3.4 should 
be entered on the first page, and the rest on the second, third and fourth  pages. The application should be prepared 
by the computer and the relevant particulars should be entered very clearly in candidate’s own handwriting. All 
applications that do not conform to the format of the specimen application form, uncompleted applications, shall be 
rejected without notice. It would be advisable to retain a copy of the application form with the applicant. Further, 
the candidate should satisfy herself / himself that the completed application conforms to the specimen application 
form before submitting. It is responsibility of the candidate to find out whether the completed application complies 
with the application specified in the notice if not, application will be rejected. 
6.3 The name of the examination mentioned in the heading of the application should be written in English in Sinhala 
applications in addition to in Sinhala and in English in Tamil applications in addition to in Tamil.
6.4 Certification of the signature of the applicant in the relevant application should be done by only a Senior Deputy 
Registrar General/Deputy Registrar General. Completed applications should be forwarded by certifying by the 
Head of the Department.
6.5 All applicants should forward their applications on or before 26.09.2025 to the “Registrar General, Registrar 
General’s Department. No.234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, Battaramulla, under registered cover.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1664
6.6 The envelope containing the application should be clearly marked with the words “Recruitment to the Grade III of 
Class I of the Registrar General’s Service under Merit Scheme-2025” on the top left corner. Applications received 
after the deadline will be rejected. 
6.7 Any document or a copy of a document should not be attached with the application. However, the documents 
proofing of their own qualifications mentioned, should be ready to submit if they are requested.
Should be considered:
 i. Calling letter for the interview will be sent to the official address of the applicant in the name of the applicant.
 ii. Participation of the interview is not considered as a completion of qualifications for awarding the appointment.
 iii. If such applicant who is eligible for the appointment will be considered as non-eligible at   the instance of awarding 
of the appointment under the regulations and provisions authorized, or subject to the unsatisfied work, behaviour 
or the power of non awarding of the appointment is with the Public Service Commission.
07. Furnishing False Information 
If such information mentioned in the application furnished by you is found to be false or incorrect before the selection, 
your candidature or selection is liable to be cancelled.
If such information is found to be false or incorrect after selection, action may be taken for the person in question to be 
dismissed from service.
• The final decision on any matter that does not include in this notice rests with the Public Service Commission. 
The power of taking final decision for filling vacancies or non-filing or filling part of the vacancies is with the 
Public Service Commission.
08. In case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases of this notice, which is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
languages, the Sinhala notice will be considered as the correct one.
As per the order of the Public Service Commission,
  S. Alokabandara,
  The Secretary.
Ministry of Public Administration, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government. 
On 07th day of month August, 2025. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1665
Specimen Application
RECRUITMENT  TO  GRADE  III  OF  CLASS  I  OF  THE REGISTRAR  SERVICE  OF THE REGIS -
TRAR GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT  UNDER  MERIT  SCHEME - 2025
(For office use only)
(Write the number relevant to the medium being applied for, in the cage) 
Sinhala-2   / Tamil-3           
Note: The medium applied could not be changed 
1:0
1.1 Name in Full (Mr./Mrs./ Miss.) : …………………..……………………………………………………………
      (In Sinhala/Tamil) 
1.2 Name in Full : …………………………..………..………………………………………………………………
       (In English Block letters)
1.3 Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss.) : ………………………………………………………..…………………
       (In Sinhala/Tamil) 
 උදාා : එම්. ජී. බී. එස්්. කේ�. ගුණවර්ධන
1.4 Name with initials : ……………………………………………………..………………….……………………
     (In English Block letters)
2:0    
2.1 Official Address  : ………...……………………………………………………………….……………………
       (In Sinhala/Tamil):
2.2 Official Address  : ………………….…………...………………………………………….……………………           
       (In English Block letters)
3.0      
3.1 Gender : Male -0   Female   1                          (write the relevant No. in the cage)   
3.2 Civil Status : Married – 1   Unmarried – 2                   (write the relevant No. in the cage) 
3.3 Date of Birth : Year :                                       Month :                               Date :                  
3.4 National Identity Card  Number  :
4.0
4.1 Official Telephone No.:
4.2 Personal Telephone No.:        

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1666
5.0. 
5.1 Date of appointment to the post of Class II in the Registrar Service : ……………………..............................
5.2 Date of permanent in the same post : …………………………………....……..…………...............................
5.3 The date of passing the efficiency bar examination related to the same position : ………...………….............
5.4 The date completion of 08 years in Class II of Registrar Service : …...……………………............................
5.5 Have you been subject to any disciplinary action during the service period? If so provide a brief description.  
 ……………………………………………………………………………………………..……......................
6.0 Current workplace : ………………………………………………………………………...........................................
7.0 Details related to obtaining each qualifications under No.05 in the notice of calling applications :
7.1 Work Experience : …………………………………………………………………….………………………
  ……………………………………………………………………………………………..
7.2 Skill  : ………………………………...………………………………….………………………
  ……………………………………………………………………………………………..   
7.3 Knowledge in Information Technology : ………...……..……………………………………………….……
     ………………………………..……………………………………
7.4 Language Skill  : ………………………………...………………………………….………………………
  ……………………………………………………………………………………………..    
• It is not necessary to send documents of proofing additional qualifications along with the application and, it is a 
responsibility of the applicant to prepare and keep them to submit at the interview.
8.0 Have you ever been an offender in a court for an accuse ?
(If yes, mention the details)
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….
9.0 Certification of the Applicant 
I declare that the information given here is true to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the parts have been 
completed accurately and I am aware that will be subject to disqualification if the information is found to be false prior 
to my selection and I will be subject to dismissal if it is discovered after the appointment. I further declare that I am 
subject to all the rules and regulations.
 ……………………… …………………………                                                                                          
 Date                                                                Signature of the Candidate 
Note – the Applicant must sign in the presence of a Senior Deputy Registrar General or a Deputy Registrar General. 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1667
10.0 Attestation of the Signature of the applicant
I certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss …………………………….. who is submitting this application is personally known to 
me and he/she placed the signature before me on ………. Day of ……………………………... 
 …………………………………………,
 Signature of Certifying Officer. 
Full Name : ………………………………………….
Designation : ………………………………………….
Address : ………………………………………….
Date : ………………………………………….
(Certify by the Official frank)                   
11.0   Attestation of the head of the Department:-
I do hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss ……………………………..……………………… who is serving in a post 
of ……………………………….. in this  office and the information submitted by she/he is  true and correct   , work 
and attendance is satisfied, no any accuse against him/her.
 ………………………………………..,
 Signature of the Head of the Department.
Name:
Designation:
Address:
Date:
(Place the Official Frank)
08-326

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1668
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Authorities
Registrar General’s Department 
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF CLASS I OF THE REGISTRAR SERVICE OF THE REGISTRAR 
GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT UNDER LIMITED SCHEME-2025
APPLICATIONS are called, on the direction of the Public Service Commission, from the Officers who are in the active 
service as at 17.03.2024 with the following qualifications to fill 03 vacancies existing in Class I of Grade III of the Registrar 
Service of the Registrar General’s Department, under Limited Scheme.
The application for this purpose is published in the website www.doenets.lk of the Department of Examinations, Sri 
Lanka through “Online Applications-Recruitment Exams/E.B.Exams” under “Our Service” and the applications can strictly 
be submitted online. Accepting online applications will be commenced on 01 st of September 2025 at 9.00 a.m. and end 
on 26th of September 2025 at 9.00 p.m.  After submitting the application online method, it should be downloaded and the 
relevant parts of the printed copy should be filled in hand writing and should be sent to reach to the Sri Lanka Department 
of Examinations, by registered post on or before the closing date of the applications with the certification of the head of the 
department certifying the signature of the applicant. 
Officers should handed over a copy of the application to the head of the department to include into attach their own 
personal file and, at the calling for the interview, a copy of the application which is certified by the head of the department 
and a letter of confirmation in the service should be submitted.
1. Method of Recruitment
 
Based on the results of the written examination, candidates who secure 40% or more marks for each question paper will 
be recruited on the order of marks. The qualifications of the candidates will be verified by a Board of Interview approved 
by the Public Service Commission. Marks will not be awarded for the interview.
Further, according to the Circular No.01/2024 of Public Service Commission, When filling vacancies in the order of 
merit, if, at any point, the number of candidates with equal marks exceeds the remaining number of vacancies, Public 
Service Commission may decide to make further selection from those candidates who have secured equal marks, if there 
is a current requirement to fill the vacancies. This selection process is composed of the following :
 I. A written test to assess the ability of the candidates 
 II. Merit based interview. 
The effective date of the appointment will be the date of issue of appointment letters or a later date as decided by the 
Public Service Commission.
2. Conditions of deploying in the Service and Service Conditions:
 I. This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution should be made to the widows' and orphans' Pension Scheme.
 II. The Officers appointed for this post is subject to a probation period of one year.
 III. In accordance with the provisions of Public Administrative Circulars 18 /2020 and dated 16.10.2020, and circulars 
thereof, language proficiency of prescribed other official language/languages should be obtained.
 IV . This appointment will be subject to the conditions, orders No. PSC/EST/2/1/25/1/4/2011, approved by the Public 
Service Commission  and  the orders and conditions in the service minutes of  the executive service of the 
Registrar General’s Department dated 22.10.2013, the amendments that have already been made or could be made 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1669
in future to the same service minute, general orders and conditions governing the appointments of the public 
service,  Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, provisions of the Establishments Code and Financial 
Regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and also to other departmental conditions, orders.
 V . Should pass the First Efficiency Bar examination in accordance with the service minute within three years (03) 
from appointing of Grade III of Class I of the Registrar Service.
 VI. It is not allowed to change the language medium applied later and the language medium eligible for your 
appointment is the language mentioned in the application by you.
3. Salary Scale :-
This post is entitled to the monthly salary scale of Rs. 82,150-10x2,400-8x2,940-17x3,900-195,970/ (SL-1-2025) as per 
the provisions of  the Public Administration circular No.10/2025 and dated 25.03.2025.
4. Qualifications :-
4.1 Educational Qualifications :-
 Not applicable
4.2 Experience :-
(a) Permanent appointment in Grade II of the Registrars Service of the Registrar General’s Department.
(b) Having completed a satisfactory period of 03 years of service in Grade II of the Registrar Service  
(c) Should not have any disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions mentioned in Public Service 
Commission Circular No.01/2020 and amendments therein
4.3 Physical Suitability :-
 Every candidate should be physically and mentally sound enough to serve in any part of the Island, perform duties 
of the post.
4.4 Other Qualifications :-
  
• Applicants should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
• Applicants must have an excellent moral character,
• Should have fulfilled all the necessary qualifications required to recruit to the post by the closing date of the 
applications.
4.5 Age Limit :-
 Not applicable
5. Written Examination :-
5.1 Candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the examination and issuing the results. He or she shall be liable to be subjected to a punishment imposed 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations in case of violation of these rule and regulation.
5.2 Examination shall be conducted in all three languages. Candidates will not be allowed to change the medium of 
examination produced by them in the application form.
 
5.3 Written examination consists of the following question papers :-
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Pass Marks
Document Registration and Title Registration 03 hours 100 40%
Registration of Marriage, birth and death certificates 03 hours 100 40%

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1670
5.4 Syllabus related to the written examination
 
Name of the Question paper Curriculum
Registration of documents 
and registration of titles
(a) Orders imposed by the Registrar General on registration of 
documents and registration of titles 
(b) Circulars and instructions issued time to time by the Registrar 
General on registration of documents and registration of titles
Registration of marriages, 
births and deaths
(a) Orders imposed by the Registrar General on registration of marriages, 
births and deaths.
(b) Circulars and instructions issued time to time by the Registrar 
General on registration of marriages, births and deaths.
6. Examination Conditions:
6.1 Candidates can sit the examination in any one of languages of their choice. Candidates should answer all question 
papers in the same language. Candidates will not be allowed to change the medium of examination produced by 
them in the application form. Every candidate should answer all question papers.
6.2 Fee for this examination is Rs. 1200/=. Payment of examination fees should be made strictly using the following 
methods provided by the online system.
 I. Through any Bank Credit Card,
 II. Any Bank Debit Card with the facility of internet transaction, 
 III. Online Banking method of bank of Ceylon, 
 IV . Any Branch of the bank of Ceylon.
Note: 
(a) The instructions on payment through the above methods are published under the technical instructions 
related to the examination in the website
(b)  The receipt of payment shall be acknowledged through SMS or e-mail. The total/ full amount due 
examination fee should be paid and applications of the candidates, who have made payments more or 
less than the prescribed examination fee, will be rejected. Department of Examinations shall not bear 
responsibility on the errors that occur when paying the examination fees through the above methods.
(c) Under no circumstances the examination fee shall be refunded or allowed to be transferred in favour of 
another examination. 
6.3 This examination will be held in Colombo in the month of November 2025.  The date of the examination will be 
notified later.
6.4 Uncompleted applications shall be rejected without notice.
 Note: No candidate is allowed to enter the examination hall without the admission card. Only an admission card 
in which the signature of the candidate is attested should be presented to the supervisor on the date of 
commencement of the examination. 
6.5 The issuance of an admission card to a candidate shall not be considered as an acceptance that he/ she have fulfilled 
the qualifications to sit for the examination or for a post.
6.6 Online applications should be filled in English medium only. The candidates will be notified that the soft copy 
submitted online is accepted/not accepted as a valid application by the department through SMS sent to the mobile 
number used to access the system or by an e-mail sent to the e-mail address. Download the common instructions 
sheet prepared for applying for the examination before filling the online application. Strictly follow these instructions 
when filling the application. Any amendment made in the application after taking a printed copy of the application 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1671
will not be considered as a valid amendment. Incompleted applications shall be rejected without notice. Applications 
received after the closing date will not be accepted.
6.7 The Commissioner General of Examinations shall issue admission cards to the applicants, who are within the age 
limit prescribed in the notification and have paid the prescribed examination fees and submitted the duly completed 
applications online on or before the closing date of applications, on the presumption that only those who have the 
qualifications mentioned in the examination notice have applied. Immediately after the issuance of admission cards 
to the candidates, a notice thereon will be published in the official website of the Department of Examinations.  If 
the admission card is not received within 02 or 03 days of publishing the notice, steps shall be taken to notify the 
Institutional Examination Organization Branch of the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. The name of the examination, full name and address of the applicant should be clearly mentioned 
when making an inquiry in the said manner. It would be more effective to send a letter of request to the fax number 
mentioned in the notification furnishing a fax number to which a copy of the admission card can be obtained without 
delay in case of applicants outside Colombo. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand to prove any 
matter inquired by the Department of Examinations: i.e. A printed copy of the application and the receipt obtained 
by paying the examination fee kept at your possession.
6.8 With the approval of the Public Service Commission, the Commissioner General of Examinations has the power to 
either postpone or cancel the examination.
6.9 All candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall for each paper 
they sit. Any of the following documents shall be accepted for this purpose. 
 I. The National Identity Card,
 II.  A valid Passport, 
 III.  A valid Sri Lankan Driving License.
6.10  Moreover, all candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face and both ears, so that the 
examination staff may easily verify their identity. Any candidate refusing to prove the identity is not allowed to enter 
the examination hall. Further, once entered the examination hall, all candidates should keep their face and both ears 
open until leaving the hall, so that the examination staff may verify their identity.
 Should be considered:
(a) The applications of the applicants who are unable to submit the relevant documents in an instance of 
informing to submit the documents will not be considered.
(b) Admission will be sent to the official address of the applicant in the name of the applicant by registered 
post.
(c) If such applicant who is eligible for the appointment will be considered as non-eligible at   the instance of 
awarding of the appointment under the regulations and provisions authorized, or subject to the unsatisfied 
work, behavior  or the power of non-awarding of the appointment is with the Public Service Commission.
7. Furnishing False Information 
If such information mentioned in the application furnished by you is found to be false or incorrect before the selection, 
your candidature or selection is liable to be cancelled.
If such information is found to be false or incorrect after selection, action may be taken for the person in question to be 
dismissed from service.
• The final decision on any matter that does not include in this notice rests with the Public Service Commission. 
The power of taking final decision for filling vacancies or non-filing or filling part of the vacancies is with the 
Public Service Commission.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1672
8. In case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases of this notice, which is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
languages, the Sinhala notice will be considered as the correct one.
 
As per the order of the Public Service Commission,
  S. Alokabandara,
  The Secretary.
Ministry of Public Administration, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government. 
On 31st day of month July, 2025.
08-325
________________________________
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE  AND  NATIONAL  INTEGRATION
Department of Prisons
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF PRISON GUARD - 2025
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified Sri Lankan citizens for the Open Competitive Examination to Recruitment for 
vacant positions of Prison Guard (Female/Male) in the Department of Prisons- Sri Lanka.
 ♦ This examination is to recruit for the Post of Prison Guard under Police and Other Regulatory Services in the Department 
of Prisons-Sri Lanka 
Note: Applicants who pass the written examination will have to appear for a physical fitness test as stated in sub-
sections (1), (2), and (3) of Clause 12 of this notice and a suitability assessment interview. Therefore, only applicants 
with qualifications mentioned in those clauses are expected to apply.
02. Examination Date and Conducting Examination: 
This examination will be held in November, 2025 in main cities across the island mentioned in Schedule - 1. The city 
you wish to appear for the examination must be clearly indicated with its number from the provided schedule. You will 
not be allowed to change the city later. However, if there are not enough applicants to set up an examination center in 
a particular city, applicants will be directed to a center established in the city mentioned as their second choice on the 
application or a nearby city. If there are not enough applicants to establish examination centers in all or most of the 
proposed cities, the Commissioner General of Examinations will arrange the examination to be held only in Colombo.
Schedule - 1
 
Schedule No. 05
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Jaffna 04
Batticaloa, 05
Kurunegala 06
Anuradhapura 07
Badulla 08
Rathnapura 09

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1673
03. Total number of vacancies to be filled is 479. [Prison Guard (Male) - 409, Prison Guard (Female) -70]. In the event that 
candidates with equal marks exceed the number of vacancies for the final vacancy or for a few vacancies, the decision 
to fill those vacancies will be made, as per Article 92 of the Procedural Rules, by the Public Service Commission. The 
date on which the appointment will take effect will be decided by the Commissioner General of Prisons. 
04. Service Conditions:
4.1  A candidate is appointed to the relevant position of Prison Guard subject to the general conditions governing 
appointments in the public service, the provisions of the Establishments Code and Financial Regulations, and the 
procedural rules of the Public Service Commission published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 2310/29 dated 
14.12.2022.
4.2 This appointment is permanent and pensionable. You are subject to any policy decisions made by the government 
in the future regarding the pension scheme you are entitled to. Also, you must contribute to the Widows' and 
Orphans' Pension Scheme / Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme. You must pay contributions for this as 
prescribed by the government from time to time.
4.3 This appointment is subject to a three-year probationary period. You must pass the first efficiency bar examination 
within 03 years of being recruited as a Prison Guard.
4.4 The required proficiency in the official language must be obtained according to Public Administration Circular  
No. 18/2020 and its ancillary circulars.
4.5 The Commissioner General of Prisons has the authority to annul the appointment of applicants who fail to assume 
duties on the specified date for the position offered to them and/or refuse to assume duties in the appointed position 
or area. Those appointed to the position of Prison Guard must agree to serve in prisons outside their permanent 
place of residence for the first 05 years, staying in a single officers' quarters.
05. Monthly Salary Scale:
RS 1 – 2025 (Step 1) salary range of Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025 is applicable to this post. The salary 
scale for that salary scale is as follows: 
Rs. 49,550- – 7 x 540 – 27 x 670 – Rs. 71420 /- (monthly). 
(In accordance with the provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025, salary will be paid 
at the initial step corresponding to Rs. 49,550/- as stated in its Schedule II.)
06. Recruitment Qualifications:
(a) (i) Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Must be in good health and have a good character. This will be confirmed by a Police Clearance Report.
 (iii) Being convicted by any court for an offense related to character corruption is a complete disqualification for 
appointment to the above position.
 (iv) Minimum height: 5 feet 4 inches (Male).
 (v) Minimum height: 5 feet 2 inches (Female).
 (vi) The chest should be no less than 32 inches without inhaling. (Not applicable for women).
 (vii) Must be unmarried. (Divorced & widowed persons are considered married for this purpose)
(b). Educational Qualifications: 
Must have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in no more than two sittings, 
with six (06) subjects including Sinhala/Tamil/English and Mathematics,  with credit passes in any two (02) 
subjects.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1674
(c) Age:
•	 Must be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age.
(Accordingly, only those whose birthday falls on or before 19.09.2007 and on or after 19.09.1995 are eligible 
to apply for this)
(d) Limits on Qualifications:
 I. All qualifications required to apply for this examination must be fully completed in every respect on or 
before the last date for receiving applications.
 II. The qualifications mentioned in 06 (a) above must remain until the appointment to the position.
 III. It should also be noted that physical change such as having tattoos on the body and physical disabilities are 
disqualifications.
07. Method of Applying:
7.1 The examination fee is Rs. 600/-. Examination fees must be paid only through following payment methods provided 
by the online system.
 I. Any Bank Credit Card.
 II. Any Bank Debit Card with the Facility of Internet Transactions.
 III. Online Banking Method of Bank of Ceylon.
 IV . Any Branch of the Bank of Ceylon.
Note: 
(a) Instructions on how to make payments using above methods are published under technical instructions related 
to the examination on the website.
(b) A short message (SMS) or an email message will be sent to inform the receipt. The full amount of examination 
fee must be paid, and applications with less or more fees will be rejected. The Department of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka, will not be responsible for any errors that occur while paying examination fees through the above-
mentioned payment methods.
(c) The money paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred to another examination for any reason.
7.2 The application is published on the website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, at www.donets.lk 
under "Online Applications – Recruitment Exams/ E.B. Exams" under "Our Service," and applications can only 
be submitted online. Online applications will open on 01 st September 2025 at 09.00 a.m. and will close on 19 th 
September 2025 at 09.00 p.m.
7.3 Officers currently in the public/provincial public service should submit a copy of the application to their heads 
of institutions to be included in their personal file, and at the time of being called for the interview, a copy of the 
application certified by the head of the institution and a letter confirming service must be produced.
7.4 The applicant must bear any adverse situation arising from delaying the submission of the application until the last 
day.
7.5 The online examination application must be completed in English only. The department will inform whether the 
soft copy submitted online by the applicant has been accepted as a valid application or not by a short message 
(SMS) to the mobile number used to access the system or to the e-mail address. Before completing the online 
application, download the instructions leaflet (Instructions) prepared for applying for the examination. Strictly 
adhere to those instructions when filling out the application. No amendment made to the printed copy of the 
application after obtaining it will not be considered a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected 
without notification.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1675
7.6  The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue examination admission cards only online to applicants 
who have correctly completed and submitted the application with the relevant receipt after paying the prescribed 
examination fee on or before the last day for receiving applications, based on the prior conclusion that only those 
with the qualifications mentioned in the gazette notice have applied. As soon as the admission cards are issued, 
the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, will inform by a web notice / a short message to the applicants. If an 
applicant has not received their admission card  2 or 3 days after the notice is published, they should inquire with 
the Institutional Examinations Organization Branch of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, as stated in 
the notice. When inquiring, it will be more effective for the applicant to send a request letter correctly stating the 
name of the examination they applied for, their full name, National ID number, and address to the e-mail address 
mentioned in the notice. When making such an inquiry, it will be useful to keep the printed copy of the completed 
application ready to confirm any information requested by the Department of Examinations. Check the admission 
card and, if there are any amendments, contact the Department of Examinations in advance to make the relevant 
amendments according to the application. Requests for amendments made at the examination hall / interview will 
not be considered.
7.7 The applicant's signature must also be certified on the examination admission card. An applicant applying from 
a government institution must have their signature certified by the head of the institution or an officer authorized 
by him, while other applicants must have their signature certified by the Grama Niladhari of the division, a head 
of a government school, a Justice of the Peace, a Commissioner for Oaths, a lawyer, a public notary, or the 
Viharadhipathi or Nayaka Thero of a Buddhist temple or a person holding a significant position in another religious 
place or the clergy.
08. Admission to the Examination:
(a) A candidate must appear for the examination in the examination hall assigned to them. Every candidate must 
submit certified signature with the examination admission card to the supervisor of the hall on the first day they 
appear in that hall. Admission to the examination without an admission card will not be allowed. A set of rules that 
every candidate must follow is published at the beginning of this gazette. The examination candidates are subject 
to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the conduct of the 
examination and the release of results. If those rules are violated, he/she will be subject to the punishment imposed 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(b) The issuance of an examination admission card to an applicant should not be considered as recognition that he or 
she has appeared for the examination or has fulfilled the qualifications for the position.
09. Identity of Candidates:
Examination candidates must prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the hall for every subject they 
appear for in the examination hall. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose:
 I. National Identity Card,
 II. Valid Passport,
 III. Valid Sri Lankan Driving License.
Also, examination candidates must enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears in a way that allows 
their identity to be confirmed and to ensure that they are not wearing electronic communication devices. Applicants who 
refuse to prove their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, from the moment they enter the 
examination hall until they leave after the examination is over, they must remain without covering their face and ears 
so that they can be identified by the examination authorities.
10. Punishment for Providing False Information:
When filling out the application, you must provide accurate information with great care. If a candidate is found to be 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1676
unqualified according to the rules of this examination, his candidature can be canceled at any time, before, during, or 
after the examination. If it is revealed that any information submitted by an applicant was knowingly submitted as false, 
or if he/she has intentionally suppressed any important information, his/her appointment will be annulled.
11. Examination System and Medium:
(a) The examination is conducted in Sinhala, Tamil, and English medium.
(b) A candidate will not be allowed to change the language medium of the examination mentioned in their 
application later.
12. Method of Recruitment:
(1.) Written Examination:    
 A written examination consisting of 02 question papers with subjects mentioned in paragraph 02 of this notice, 
will be held. A minimum of 40% marks must be obtained to pass each subject. Candidates must appear for all 
question papers.
Subjects:
1. General Intelligence
2. General Knowledge
Syllabus of the Written Examination:
(a) General Intelligence: Duration 1 hour, total marks 100. A multiple-choice paper of 50 questions 
designed to test logical reasoning, analytical ability, and decision-making based on numerical, 
language, and diagrammatic patterns.
(b) General Knowledge: Duration 1 hour, total marks 100. A multiple-choice paper of 50 questions 
testing knowledge on political, cultural, and economic affairs in Sri Lanka.
 (2). Physical Fitness Test: 
Up to twice the number of available vacancies, candidates who score the highest marks in the written exam,  
will be called in alphabetical order for the physical fitness test (endurance test).  The date of this test will be 
decided by the Commissioner General of Prisons.
•	 Male: Run 1,000 meters (1 km) within 3 minutes 44 seconds.
•	 Female: Run 400 meters (0.4 km) within 2 minutes 05 seconds.
The Commissioner General of Prisons will appoint the Fitness Test Board.
(3). Suitability Assessment Interview:
 I. This interview is held to check whether candidates meet the basic qualifications mentioned in Section 
06 and whether they fall within the specified limits.
 II. Marks will be awarded under the following categories by the Interview Board.
Main Criteria Maximum Marks Minimum Marks 
Required
Additional Educational & Other Qualifications 25
Not Applicable
Professional Qualifications 15
Sports Skills 30
Leadership & Community Service 25
Performance at Interview 05
Total 100

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1677
 (III). Only applicants who pass the physical fitness test or endurance test will be referred for a fitness 
assessment interview. Basic qualifications will be checked during the structural interview itself. 
(Marks obtained by candidates in the written examination will not be called at this time)
 (IV). After marks obtained by each candidate in the structured interview are sent back to the Commissioner 
General of Examinations, based on the total marks obtained by candidates in the written examination 
and the aptitude assessment interview, the candidates who scored the highest marks respectively will 
be recruited for Regulatory Service.
 V. Results will be sent individually to all candidates or published on www.results.exams.lk as notified 
by the Commissioner General of Prisons.
Please note:   Appearing for the interview does not itself guarantee appointment. 
•	 The appointing authority has the right to fill only some or none of the vacancies.
•	 Any matters not covered in this notice will be decided by the Commissioner General of Prisons. All 
candidates are bound by the general examination rules published in this Gazette.
•	 In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil, and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 M. N. C. Dhanasinghe,
 Commissioner General of Prisons (Acting).
Prisons Headquarters, 
No. 150, Baseline Road, 
Colombo 09. 
22nd August 2025.
08-340
________________________________
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND NATIONAL INTEGRATION
Department of Prisons
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF JAILOR -CLASS II 
AND REHABILITATION OFFICER -CLASS II  IN THE DEPARTMENT OF PRISONS -SRI LANKA -2025
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified Sri Lankan citizens for the open competitive examination for recruitment to 
vacant posts of Jailor -Class II (Female/Male) and Rehabilitation Officer Class II  (Female/Male) in the Department of 
Prisons- Sri Lanka.
 I. Recruitment through this examination is for the post of Jailor -Class II (Female/Male) and Rehabilitation Officer-
Class II (Female/Male) in the Department of Prisons- Sri Lanka.
 II. Written Examination:- This examination consists of following 02 question papers:
(a) Intelligence Test 
(b) Numerical Skills

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1678
02. Examination Date and Conducting the Examination:
This examination will be held in November 2025 in major cities throughout the island as shown in Schedule-1. The city 
in which you wish to sit for the examination should be clearly indicated with the number from among cities mentioned 
in the attached schedule. No candidate will be permitted to change later the town originally indicated in the application. 
However, if there are not enough applicants to establish an examination center in a particular city, they will be directed 
to an examination center that will be established in the city or another nearby city that the applicant has indicated under 
the second choice in the application. If a sufficient number of candidates do not apply to establish examination centers 
in all or more of the proposed cities, the Commissioner General of Examinations will arrange the examination only in 
Colombo.
Schedule - 1
 Town and Numbers
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Jaffna 04
Batticaloa 05
Kurunegala 06
Anuradhapura 07
Badulla 08
Rathnapura 09
03. Total number of vacancies to be filled is 75.  [Jailor -Class II (Male) - 55, and Jailor -Class II (Female) - 07, Rehabilitation 
Officer-Class II  (Male) -10, Class II  Rehabilitation Officer (Female) -03]. In the event that number of candidates who 
have obtained equal marks for the last vacancy or for several vacancies exceeds the number of vacancies, number of 
vacancies to be filled will be decided by the Public Service Commission in accordance with Section 92 of the Code 
of Procedural Rules. Date on which the appointment takes effect will be determined by the Commissioner General of 
Prisons.
04. Conditions of Employment:- 
 4.1 A candidate will be appointed to the post of Jailor- Class II / Rehabilitation Officer- Class 11  subject to the 
General Conditions Governing Appointments in the Public Service, the provisions of the Establishments Code 
and the Financial Regulations, and the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission published in the 
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2310/29 and dated 14.12.2022.
 4.2 This post is permanent and pensionable. You shall be subject to the policy decision to be taken by the government 
in future regarding the pension scheme entitled to you. Further, you are liable to contribute to the Widows' and 
Orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme. You are required to pay contribution in such 
rate as may be determined from time to time by the Government.
 4.3 This appointment to the Jailor -Class 11/ Rehabilitation Officer -Class II is subject to a probationary period of 
three years. The First Efficiency Bar Examination should have to be passed within 03 years from the date of 
appointment to the post and the Second Efficiency Bar Examination should have to be passed within 07 years 
from the date of appointment to the post.   
 4.4 In terms of the Public Administration Circular No.18 /2020 and circulars issued incidental thereto, prescribed 
Official language proficiency should have to be reached. 
  4.5 The Commissioner General of Prisons reserves the power to cancel any appointment of a selected appointee in 
such instances where failure by any such appointee to assume duties in his/her post on the scheduled date and/ 
or denial by any such appointee to assume duties in his/her post at the workstation which such appointee will 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1679
be directed in the letter of appointment to assume duties. Selected appointees to the post of the Jailor- Class II 
/ Rehabilitation Officer-Class II should agree to engage in the duties during the initial 05 years from the date 
of their appointment, accommodating in the bachelor’s quarters of prisons even far away from area of their 
permanent residence.
05. Monthly Salary Scale:
In terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025, salary range Rs. - 3/2025 (Step 1) is applicable to this 
post, accordingly this post carries the salary scale as follows:
Rs. 55,410-7x670-2x890-25x1190-91630(monthly)
(In terms of  the provisions of the Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025, in that Schedule II 
thereof, salaries will be paid based on the initial salary step corresponding to Rs. 55,410/-.)
06. Recruitment Qualifications:        
(a) (I) Must be a Sri Lankan citizen.
  (II) Must be of exemplary character, which will be verified through Police Clearance Reports.
  (III) Must be unmarried and have sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to 
perform the duties of the post. (Divorced persons and widows are not eligible to apply)
  (IV) Males - Minimum height should be 5 feet 6 inches
              Females - Minimum height should be 5 feet 4 inches
  (V) Should have a chest measurement of 32 inches deflated. (This does not apply in case of female candidates)
  (VI) Every candidate must be physically and mentally fit to serve in any area in Sri Lanka and to perform duties 
of the position. 
(b)   Educational Qualifications :
 I. Should have passed six (06) subjects in one sitting at the G.C.E.(Ordinary Level) Examination with credit 
passes in four (04) subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and English Language.
And
 II. Should have passed all subjects (except the Common General Test) at the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination 
in one setting. (Under the old syllabus, it is sufficient to pass   three (03) subjects in one sitting.)
(c) Age :
•	 Jailor Class II - should not be less than 18 years and not more than 26 years. (Accordingly, only those 
whose date of birth falls on or before 19.09.2007 and on or after 19.09.1999 are eligible to apply for this 
post)
•	 Rehabilitation Officer Class II - Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 26 years. (Accordingly, 
only those whose date of birth falls on or before 19.09.2007 and on or after 19.09.1999 are eligible to 
apply for this post)
(d) Limitations on Eligibility :
 I. No person holding a religious order is allowed to apply or appear.
 II. All qualifications required to apply for this examination must be fulfilled in all respects on or before the closing 
date for applications.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1680
 III. The qualifications mentioned in 06 (a) above must remain until the appointment to position of Jailor- Class II 
/Rehabilitation Officer-Class II
IV . It should also be noted that physical change such as having tattoos on the body and physical disabilities are 
disqualification.
07. Examination Fees:
The examination fee is Rs. 600/-. Examination fees must be paid only through following payment methods provided 
by the online system.
 I. Any Bank Credit Card.
 II. Any Bank Debit Card with the Facility of Internet Transactions.
 III. Online Banking Method of Bank of Ceylon.
 IV . Any Branch of the Bank of Ceylon.
Note:
(a) Instructions on how to make payments using above methods are published under technical instructions related 
to the examination on the website.
(b) A short message (SMS) or an e-mail will be sent to inform the receiving of payment. The full amount of 
examination fee must be paid, and applications with less or more fees will be rejected. The Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, will not be responsible for any errors that occur while paying examination fees 
through the above-mentioned payment methods.
(c) The money paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred to another examination for any reason.
08. Method of Applying:
8.1 The application is published on the website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, at www.donets.lk 
under "Online Applications – Recruitment Exams/ E.B. Exams" under "Our Service," and applications can only 
be submitted online. Online applications will open on 01st September 2025 at 09.00 a.m. and will close on 19th 
September, 2025 at 09.00 p.m.
8.2 Officers, currently in public/provincial public service should submit a copy of the application to their heads of 
institutions to be included in their personal file, and at the time of being called for the interview, a copy of the 
application certified by the head of the institution and a letter confirming service must be produced.
8.3 The applicant must bear any adverse situation arising from delaying the submission of the application until the last 
day.
8.4 The online examination application must be completed in English only. The Department will inform whether the 
soft copy submitted online by the applicant has been accepted as a valid application or not by a short message 
(SMS) to the mobile number used to access the system or to the e-mail address. Before completing the online 
application, download the instructions leaflet (Instructions) prepared for applying for the examination. Strictly 
adhere to those instructions when filling out the application. No amendment made to the printed copy of the 
application after obtaining it will not be considered a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected 
without notification.
8.5 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue examination admission cards only online to applicants 
who have correctly completed and submitted the application with the relevant receipt after paying the prescribed 
examination fee on or before the last day for receiving applications, based on the prior conclusion that only those 
with the qualifications mentioned in the gazette notice have applied. As soon as the admission cards are issued, 
the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, will inform by a web notice / a short message to the applicants. If an 
applicant has not received their admission card 2 or 3 days after the notice is published, they should inquire with 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1681
the Institutional Examinations Organization Branch of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, as stated in 
the notice. When inquiring, it will be more effective for the applicant to send a request letter correctly stating the 
name of the examination they applied for, their full name, National ID number, and address to the e-mail address 
mentioned in the notice. When making such an inquiry, it will be useful to keep the printed copy of the completed 
application ready to confirm any information requested by the Department of Examinations. Check the admission 
card and, if there are any amendments, contact the Department of Examinations in advance to make the relevant 
amendments according to the application. Requests for amendments made at the examination hall / interview will 
not be considered.
8.6 The applicant's signature must also be certified on the examination admission card. An applicant applying from 
a government institution must have their signature certified by the head of the institution or an officer authorized 
by him, while other applicants must have their signature certified by the Grama Niladhari of the Division, a 
head of a Government School, a Justice of the Peace, a Commissioner for Oaths, a lawyer, a public notary, or 
the Viharadhipathi or Nayaka Thero of a Buddhist temple or a person holding a significant position in another 
religious place or the clergy.
09. Admission to  the examination :
(a). Every candidate should sit the examination only in the examination hall allotted to such candidate. Every candidate 
should get his/her signature which appears in the admission card duly attested and give same to the head of the 
Examination hall on the date on which he/ she sits the examination. Under no circumstance should any candidate 
be permitted to sit the examination without submitting a duly attested admission card. Rules and Regulations 
bound to be abide by every candidate at the Examination hall are published in the beginning of this gazette 
notification. Candidates are liable to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations from the commencement of examination to the issuance of results. Any breach by any candidate 
of such rules and regulations may render such candidate to be subject to any punishment to be imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations.
(b). The issuance of an examination admission card to an applicant should not be considered as a recognition that he 
or she has appeared for the examination or has fulfilled the qualifications for the position.
10. Identity of Candidates.–
Examination candidates must prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the hall for every subject they 
appear for in the examination hall. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose:
 (i) National identity card,  
 (ii) Valid Passport, 
 (iii) Valid Sri Lankan driving License. 
Also, examination candidates must enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears in a way that allows 
their identity to be confirmed and to ensure that they are not wearing electronic communication devices. Applicants who 
refuse to prove their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, from the moment they enter the 
examination hall until they leave after the examination is over, they must remain without covering their face and ears so 
that they can be identified by the examination authorities.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– 
In filling the application, utmost care should be exercised to incorporate accurate information. if any candidate is 
found to be disqualified in terms of the rules and regulations of this examination, his candidature may be canceled at 
any time even before the examination or at the time where the examination is in progress or after the conclusion of the 
examination. if it is found that a candidate has furnished any information with knowledge that they are false or if he/she 
has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she is liable to be dismissed from the service. 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1682
12. Method of Examination and Medium of Language:- 
(a) Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English  medium of languages. 
(b) No candidate will be permitted to change the medium of language at a later stage.
13. Scheme of Recruitment:
(1) Written Examination:
 A written examination will be held in two papers consisting of subjects mentioned in item II of paragraph 01 of this 
advertisement. A minimum of 40% marks must be obtained to pass each subject. Candidates are required to answer 
all question papers.
Subjects:  1. Intelligence Test
 2. Numerical Skills
• Syllabus of the written examination:
(a) Intelligence test - Duration 01 hour. Total marks 100. A multiple choice questions paper to judge logical 
interpretation, analytical ability, and measuring the ability to guess events correctly.
(b) Numerical Skills - Duration 01 hour. Total marks 100. Questionnaire on understanding basic 
mathematical concepts and their usage.
(2) Physical Fitness Test:-
A physical fitness test or endurance test will be conducted to, in the ratio of 1:3 to the number of vacancies 
available, only for those candidates who have secured the highest marks in the written examination. Names of 
candidates will be obtained from the Commissioner General of Examinations in alphabetical order. Date of the 
interview will be determined by the Commissioner General of Prisons.
Men       - 1000 m (1Km) run within 03 minutes and 44 seconds.
Women - 400 m (0.4Km) run within 02 minutes and 05 seconds.
The Fitness Test Board will be appointed by the Commissioner General of Prisons.
(3) Structured Interview :-  (Fitness Assessment Interview)
  
 (I). Structural interview will be conducted to ascertain as to whether candidates have possessed qualifications 
specified in paragraph 06 of this notice and are in compliance with the fulfillment on requirements. 
Structural Interview Board is appointed by the Commissioner General of Prisons.
 (II). Marks will be awarded by an interview panel within the maximum marks allocated for the main scoring 
areas as shown in the table below. Detailed marking scheme is attached is shown below.
Main Headings for which Marks are Awarded Maximum Score Minimum Marks to be  
Considered for Selection
Additional Educational Qualifications 15
not applicable
English Language Proficiency 10
Computer Literacy 10
Sports Skills 20
Leadership and Community Services Activities 20
Special Talents and Skills 15
Performance at Interview 10
Total 100

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1683
 (III). Only applicants who pass the physical fitness test or endurance test will be referred for a fitness assessment 
interview. Basic qualifications will be checked during the structural interview itself. (Marks obtained by 
candidates in the written examination will not be called at this time)
 (IV). After marks obtained by each candidate in the structured interview are sent back to the Commissioner 
General of Examinations, based on the total marks obtained by candidates in the written examination 
and the aptitude assessment interview, the candidates who scored the highest marks respectively will be 
recruited for Regulatory Service.
 ( V). Results will be sent individually to all candidates or published on www.results.exams.lk as notified by 
the Commissioner General of Prisons.
Please note: Attendance at interviews will not be considered as completion of the qualifications for appointment.
	Appointing Authority has the power not to fill any or all vacancies. 
	If there is anything not mentioned here, Commissioner General of Prisons will decide in this regard. All 
applicants will be bound to comply with the general examination rules stated in this Gazette.
	If there is any discrepancy or inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of this press 
release, the Sinhala press release shall prevail. 
 H.M.N.C. Dhanasinghe,
 Commissioner General of Prisons (Acting).
Prison Headquarters,
No. 150, Baseline Road,
Colombo 09,
On 22nd August, 2025.
08-341
_______________________________
DEPARTMENT  OF  IMMIGRATION  AND  EMIGRATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Authorized Officers Grade I of the Department of Immigration  
and Emigration- 2025
01. IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade I Authorized Officers will be held in Colombo in the 
year 2025 by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration in compliance with the provisions of the relevant 
Approved Scheme of Recruitment for the Authorized officers of the Department of Immigration and Emigration.
02. (i) The Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations stipulated by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development 
Administration regarding the holding of examination and the issuance of results. The decision of the Director 
General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration will be the final decision on conducting the 
examination and the issuance of results.
 (ii) If the candidates violate the rules imposed by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration, they will 
have to be subjected to a penalty imposed by the Director General of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development 
Administration.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1684
03. Examination Fees: Candidates may sit the subjects of the examination either in one sitting or separately. Charges will 
not be levied from the candidates who sit the entire examination or one subject for the first time. Subsequently an 
examination fee of Rs. 500 per subject and Rs. 1,000 for the entire examination in any sitting will be levied.  Receipt 
obtained making payment of these examination fees at any Branch of Bank of Ceylon in the island as to be credited 
to the Account No. 7041443 of the Battaramulla Branch of Bank of Ceylon of the Department of Immigration and 
Emigration shall be affixed in the appropriate place on the application. (It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt.) The fee paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination on any reason.
04. Applications
 The application shall be in compliance with the specified format attached to this notice and shall be prepared as per 
the specimen application using both sides of a A4 size paper. Nos. 01 to 07 shall be on the first page and the rest on 
the second page. In preparing the application, the name of the examination mentioned in the title shall be indicated in 
English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications. The application may 
be prepared and completed by typing or clearly in the applicant's own handwritings. Applications prepared accordingly 
shall be hand delivered to the Management Service Officer of the relevant subject at the Administration Branch and 
a letter of acknowledgement shall be obtained or shall be sent by registered post on or before 25.09.2025 through 
the Sectional Head to reach “the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration, Department of Immigration and 
Emigration, “Suhurupaya”, Battaramulla.  In sending applications, “Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade I Authorized 
Officers – 2025” shall clearly be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Applications with incomplete 
information and applications received after the closing date will be rejected. Further, the applicant shall scrutinize as 
to whether the completed application is in compliance with the specimen application in the notice of examination and 
otherwise the application will be rejected. (It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the completed application with you.)
05.  Candidates shall prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the Examination Hall for each subject they 
sit in the examination hall. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose.
 (i)  National Identity Card
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid Sri Lankan Driving License
Furthermore, candidates shall enter the examination hall without covering their face and both ears so as to verify 
their identity. Candidates who refuse to prove their identity so will not be permitted to enter into the examination hall. 
Further, from the moment of entering the examination hall till leaving after the examination, candidate shall not cover 
the face and both ears enabling the Examination Authorities to identify the candidate. 
06. The Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration will issue an admission card along with 
a copy of the time table of the examination to the candidates assuming that only those who possess the qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. If there is any applicant who has not received admission card 
shall inform the Controller (Administration) of the Department of Immigration and Emigration using the telephone 
number 0112101553. The applicant's full name, address, National Identity Card Number and name of the examination 
shall be mentioned then and at the event of such inquiry, it is important to have the copy of the application kept by the 
applicant, the copy of the receipt of payment and the receipt received at the time of registering the application. If you 
are an applicant from outside of Colombo, it may be helpful to send a letter of request to the Sri Lanka Institute of 
Development Administration by Fax No. 0115980257 stating your fax number and the above information in order to 
obtain a copy of the admission card through fax.
07.  The signature of the applicant on the application and the admission card for the examination shall be certified by the 
Head of the Institution or an officer authorized by him. Candidate is required to sit the examination at the examination 
hall assigned to him /her under the prescribed Index number. The Admission card certified by an officer specifically 
mentioned in his / her admission card shall be handed over to the Supervisor of the Examination Hall on the day  
he /she sits the examination. A candidate who does not furnish his / her admission card will not be permitted to sit for 
the examination.
08. The post and place of work of an applicant at the event of applying for the examination is applicable to all the activities 
related to the examination and any relevant change after sending the application will not be considered.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1685
09.  Heads of Departments shall grant duty leave as to enable the candidates who have the Admission cards issued by the 
Director General, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration to sit the examination. No travelling charges will 
be paid for this purpose.
10.  This examination is held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. If the candidate has joined the Public Service through 
a competitive examination, he / she shall select the medium of language he /she sat such competitive examination 
and for a person who has joined the Public Service without a competitive examination, the medium of language of 
the examination he / she was eligible to enter the Public Service shall be selected as the medium of examination to sit 
this examination. All subjects of the examination shall be answered in a same medium of language and the medium of 
language applied will not be permitted to change subsequently.
11.  Examination Procedure :
1. Name of the Examination: The Efficiency Bar for Authorized Officers Grade I of the Department of Immigration and 
Emigration
2. Details of the examination
Subject No. Subject Duration Total 
Marks Pass marks
01 Case study 02 hours 100 40%
02 Establishments Code, Procedural Rules and Financial 
Regulations 02 hours 100 40%
3. The Authority conducting the examination  : Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of  Development 
Administration
4. How often the examination is held : At least twice a year
5. Syllabus for the Examination :
Subject 
No.
Name of the 
question paper Syllabus
01 Case study Case study on the subjects 
1. Border Control
2. Human Trafficking
3. Human Smuggling
02 Establishments 
Code, 
Procedural 
Rules and 
Financial 
Regulations
1. Chapters V , VIII, XII, XIV , XV , XVI, XLVII, XLVIII of the Establishments 
Code
2. Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission as published in the 
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2310/29 of 14.12.2022.
3. The Chapters (F.R. 124,125, 127, 128 and 135, F.R. ChaptersV , VI, XI 
and Part II of Chapter VII) and Principles and Provisions for Purchasing 
(Procurements) in the Financial Regulations
Note
* The above subjects may be sat in one sitting or separately.
* Failure to pass the examination within the stipulated period will result the suspension of subsequent salary increment.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1686
11.  Issuance of an admission card for examination to a candidate shall not be constituted as the fulfillment of eligibility to 
sit the examination.
12.  The decision of the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration on any matter not provided provisions for in 
this Gazette Notification shall be the final.
13.  If there is any inconsistency among the language phrases of this notification published in the Sinhala, Tamil and 
English media, facts in the Sinhala notification shall prevail.
 I. Chaminda Pathiraja,
 Controller General of Immigration and Emigration  (Actg.)
 Department of Immigration and Emigration.
Department of Immigration and Emigration,
Suhurupaya,
Battaramulla,
On 26th day of August, 2025.
 
Specimen Application
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR AUTHORIZED OFFICERS GRADE I OF THE DEPARTMENT 
OF IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION – 2014 (2025)
ආගමන හාා විගමනදෙෙපාාර්තදෙ�න්තුදෙේ බලයලත් නිලධාාරී 1 කේ�්ණිකේ� නිලධාරීන් ස්ඳහාා වන  
කාාර්ය�ෂමතාා කාඩඉම් විභාාගය - 2014 (2025)
                            (For office use)
Medium of Language sitting the examination :
Sinhala  - 2
Tamil  - 3
English  - 4 
(Write the relevant number in the cage.)
01. 1.1  Name in Full (in Capital letters ): ................................................................................................
(Eg.: HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
1.2  Name with last name first, followed by initials of other names (In capital letters):
......................................................................................................................................................
(Eg.: GUNAWARDHANA H.M.S.K)
1.3  Name in Full:.................................................................................................................................
 (Sinhala / Tamil)
02. 2.1  Name and Address of  Office / Department / Institution:…....………….………………………
  (In Capital letters)
  (Admission cards will be posted to this address.)
2.2 Name and address of the office / Department /Institution:……………………………………...
 (In Sinhala / Tamil)

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1687
2.3 Private Address:………………………………………………………………………………..
  (In Sinhala / Tamil)
03. Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage.)
04. National Identity Card Number :
05. Mobile Phone number                :
06. Phone Number ( Residential)     :
07. Email Address : 
08. Subject / Subjects you sit the examination in this sitting:
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
09. Date of birth :
Year :    Month  :                             Date :
10. Present Post:
10.1 Post: ..................................................................................................
10.2 Letter of appointment No.: ...............................................................
11. 11.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time? .......................................................................
 11.2 In case of not sitting the examination for the first time, then the examination fee paid: ..............
 11.3 Receipt Number: ................................
11.4 Date :..................................................
The receipt may be affixed here (if applicable only) 
(It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
12. I state that the above particulars furnished are correct, that I am entitled to sit the examination in the medium of language 
mentioned above and the receipt obtained after paying the examination fee of Rupees ....................................... has been 
affixed. I further state that I agree with the rules and regulations stipulated by the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute 
of Development Administration regarding the conducting of the examination and the issuance of results. 
................................................................
Date : ................................  Signature of the Candidate 
The applicant shall place his /her signature in the presence of the Head of the Department or an officer authorized to sign 
on behalf of the Head of the Department.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'08'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2025
1688
13. Attestation of Signature :
I certify that Mr. / Mrs. / Miss ................................personally known as an Authorized officer in my Department, placed 
his / her signature in my presence on …………… and the receipt obtained after paying the due examination fee has 
been affixed.
  ............................................................,
         Signature of the officer attesting the signature 
Name   : ...................................................... 
Designation : ...................................................... 
Address  : ......................................................
Date  : ......................................................
(Confirm with Official Seal) 
14. Attestation of the Head of the Department: 
I.  certify that,
1. the particulars furnished above have been checked; and 
2. this officer is eligible to sit this examination. 
.................................................................., 
Signature and the official seal of the Head of the Department.
08-355
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.