

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
561
561
wxl 1"550 _ 2008 uehs 16 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'05'16
No. 1,550 – FRIDAY , MAY 16, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 564
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 568
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23th May, 2008, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 09nd May, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- Part II, III and Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,549 of 09.05.2008 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
562
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
563
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
564
Posts - Vacant
OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES  COMMISSION
APPLICATIONS are invited form the citizens of Sri Lanka who
are physically fit and bearing excellent moral character and
possessing requisite qualifications conforming to this notice to fill
vacancies in the following posts in the Official Languages
Commission:
1. Administrative Officer
2. Chief Clerk
3. Research Assistant
4. Coordinating Assistant
Applications prepared as per specimen application shown below
should be addressed to the Chairman, Official Languages
Commission, “Bhasha Mandiraya”, 341/7, Kotte Road, Rajagiriya.
The post applied by you should be marked on the top left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing the application and they should be
sent by registered post to the above mentioned address on or before
31.05.2008 late applications will not be entertained.
01. Administrative Officer :- (01 post)
1.1 Educational Qualifications and experience
The applicant should:
(i) Possess a degree from a recognized University and
02 years experience in a Junior Executive position
related to Personnel Management & General
Management;
or
(ii) be and officer of the Supra Grade of the General
Clerical Service (G . C. S.) with 03 years experience
in that grade in handling Personnel Management &
General Management;
or
(iii) have completed ten (10) years satisfactory service
in class I of the G. C. S. or in an equivalent Service
including five (5) years experience in the capacity of
Chief Clerk/Staff Asst. or in a similar post in the
Public Service or in a Statutory Board or Corporation;
or
(iv) have twelve years (12) service as a Clerk including
five (5) years satisfactory service in the post of
Chief Clerk in the Service of the Official Languages
Commission.
Note:- (1) Preference will be given to candidates who possess the
following qualifications:
(i) B. Sc (Special) in Public Administration/B. Com
degree,
(ii) Diploma in Personnel Management obtained from
a recognized Institution.
(2) Applications from permanent and pensionable officers
in Public Service/Provincial Public Service will be
considered for service on secondment for two years
during which period the appointee should decide
whether he/she wish to join the Commission
permanently or revert to the substantive post.
1.2 Other qualifications:
The applicant should
(i) have computer literacy,
(ii) be able to handle correspondence independently,
(iii) have a very good command of the English Language,
(iv) be conversant with the Labour Laws,
(v) have experience in the preparation of Annual Budget/
Final Accounts,
(vi) be able to maintain a good report with the staff and
the public.
1.3 Salary Scale : - The salary scale attached to the post in
Rs. 290,580-17x5,700-Rs. 387,480 p.a (Appointee will
be placed on a suitable point in the scale depending on
the qualifications and experience.)
1.4 Age Limit: - Not below 30 years and not over 45 years of
age as at 31.05.2008 (The upper age limit shall not apply
to officers in the Public Service, Provincial Public Service
& employees of State Corporations or Boards.)
02. Chief Clerk (01 post)
2.1 Educational Qualifications & Experience:
(i) Should possess a degree from a recognized University
with two (02) years experience in a supervisory
capacity handling Personnel Management and General
Management;
or
(ii) Should have completed eight (08) years service in
class I of the General Clerical Service or in a similar
Service including three (03) years experience as Chief
Clerk/Staff Asst. in the Public Service or in a Statutory
Board or Corporation;
(iii) Should possess ten (10) years service as a Clerk
including five years satisfactory service as a Clerk in
the Official Languages Commission who is confirmed
in the post of Clerk in the service of the said
Commission.
Note: Preference will be given to candidates who possess the
following qualifications:

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
565
(i) B. Sc (Special) in Public Administration/B. Com.
degree,
(ii) Diploma in Personnel Management obtained from a
recognized institute.
2.2 Other Qualifications:
(i) have computer literacy,
(ii) be able to handle correspondence independently,
(iii) have a very good command of the English Language,
(iv) have a basic knowledge in the preparation of Annual
Budget/Final Accounts.
2.3 Salary Scale :– The salary scale attached to the post is
Rs. 245,880-3,900x15-Rs. 304,380 p. a. (Appointee can
be placed on a point in the scale depending on the
qualifications & experience).
2.4 Age limit:– Not below 30 years and not over 45 years of
age as at 31.05.2008 (The upper age limit shall not apply
to officers in the Public Service, Provincial Public Service
& employees of State Corporations or Boards.)
03. Research Assistant (03 posts)
3.1 Educational and Other Qualifications:
(i) Should possess a Bachelor’s Degree in Languages from
a recognized University,
(ii) Knowledge of all three languages viz. Sinhala, Tamil
and English,
(iii) Computer Literacy,
(iv) Educational/Professional Qualifications in one or more
of the following fields:
Translation work
Information Technology
Law
Journalism/Mass Media
Project Management
(v) Experience in working with Government and Non-
Government Organizations will be treated as an
additional qualification,
(vi) Preference will be given to candidates with following
qualifications:
Theoretical knowledge and/or vocational experience
in language teaching training.
Theoretical knowledge/experience in training activities.
Theoretical knowledge/experience in Accounts.
3.2 Other Qualifications :– Should not have been subject to
disciplinary punishment for any kind of misconduct.
3.3 Salary Scale :– The salary scale attached to the post is
Rs. 182,880-10x2,220-4x3,360-7x3840-Rs. 294,240 p. a.
(Appointee can be placed on a point in the scale depending
on the qualifications and experience)
3.4 Age Limit :– Should be not less than 18 years and not
more than 45 years of age on 31.05.2008. (The maximum
age limit will not be applicable for those who are already
serving in Public or Provincial Public Service or state
corporations or Boards.)
04. Co-ordinating Assistant (05 posts)
4.1 Educational and Other Qualifications:
(i) Should possess a degree from a recognised University
in Human Resource Management or Social Sciences,
(ii) Experience in Administration/Co-ordination/
Investigation,
(iii) Educational/Professional Qualifications in one or more
of the following fields:
Translation work
Information Technology
Law
Journalism/Mass Media
Project Management
(iv) Knowledge of Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.
(v) Preference will be given to candidates with following
qualifications:
Theoretical knowledge and/or vocational experience
in language teaching training.
Theoretical knowledge/experience in training activities.
Theoretical knowledge/experience in Accounts.
4.2 Other Qualifications :– Should not have been subject to
disciplinary punishment for any kind of misconduct.
4.3 Salary Scale :– The salary scale attached to the post is
Rs. 182,880-10x2,220-4x3,360-7x3,840-Rs. 294,240 p. a.
(Appointee can be placed on a point in the scale depending
on the qualifications and experience.)
4.4 Age Limit :– Should be not less than 18 years and not
more than 45 years of age on 31.05.2008. (The maximum
age limit will not be applicable for those who are already
serving in Public or Provincial Service or state corporations
or Boards.)
05. Efficiency Bars (applicable for post Nos. 03 and 04 only.)
Should pass an Efficiency Bar Examination within 03 years
from the date of appointment to the post. Details of the Efficiency
Bar Examination are as follows: It is a written examination conducted

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
566
by the Head of the Department once a year as necessitated.
Applicants should, in addition to answering a question paper, submit
a research dissertation prepared by them.
(i) First question paper:
This question paper will be based
on Vol. I and II of the Establishments
Code and the Financial Regulations,
so that an awareness of the
establishment Functions and
Financial Regulations important to
Office Management may be gained
by the recruit. Special attention will
be paid to matters important in day
today office activities. (relevant
chapters of the establishment Code
and Financial Regulations are
applicable) 100 marks-Minimum
Pass Mark 40
(ii) Second question paper:
(Preparation of the
Research Dissertation) Candidate should submit an
independent research dissertation on
a current socio-economic them
pertaining to this subject. This
should be prepared following the
research methodology, and it should
consist of not less than 5000 words.
In connection with the preparation
of the research dissertation. The
appointing authority will take action
to appoint suitable supervisors.
Research dissertation should be
submitted during the probation
period positively.
100 marks will be allocated for the
research dissertation out of which at
least 40 marks should be obtained
for a pass. Candidates who obtain
the minimum marks needed for the
first question paper and who
completes the research paper
successfully according to the
evaluation of the supervisors will be
considered to have passed the
Efficiency Bar Examination.
06. Method of Recruitment :– Recruitment will be done on the
result of an interview by a special panel appointed for this purpose
for the applicants possessing basic qualifications.
07. General Information and Application Procedure
(a) The post is permanent. Appointees shall contribute to the
Employees Provident Fund. The employee’s contribution
shall 8% of the consolidated salary and the Commision
Contribution shall be 12% of the consolidated salary of the
employee. In addition the Commission shall contribute 3%
to the Employees Trust Fund.
(b) The probation period will be three years. Appointees
should during the period of probation pass the Advanced
Level Language Course-Tamil in the case of Sinhala Medium
Officers and Sinhala in the case of Tamil Medium Officers-
conducted by the Official Languages Department.
(c) Appointees who do not attain the required level of Language
proficiency even within an extended period of probation
will have their services terminated.
(d) Applications from officers in the Public Service Provincial
Public Service, Statutory Boards/Corporations should be
forwarded through their respective Heads of Departments/
Institutions.
(e) Only the qualified applicants will be called for an interview.
Selections will be made on the results of the interview.
(f) Applications which are not in conformity with the above
terms will be rejected.
Chairman.
Official Languages Commission,
4th Floor,
“Bhasha Mandiraya”,
No. 341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.
OFFICIAL LANGUAGES COMMISSION
Application form for the post of ………………
01. Name of applicant:
1.01 Name with initials:——.
1.02 Name in full:——.
02. Address:
2.01 Permanent address:——.
2.02 Official address (if any):——.
03. Sex:
Male 1
Female 2 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04. Age (A copy of Birth Certificate to be annexed):
4.01 Date of Birth:——.
4.02 Age as at 31.05.2008
Years:———. Months:———. Days:———.
05. Marital status:———.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
567
06. Nationality:———.
07. Qualifications (Copies of certificate to be annexed):—–—.
(i) G . C. E. (O/L) Year:———.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
(ii) G . C. E. (A/L) Year:———.
1.
2.
3.
4.
(iii) Degree :
Name of the Y ear Class Subjects
Degree and the
University
(iv) Diploma :
Name of the Diploma Year Class Subjects
and the
awarding institute
(v) Any other Courses followed
Name of the Course Name of the Course Period
conducted the Course organization that
08. Experience :
Designation Organization Period Reason for
leaving
09. Computer literacy:———.
(Copies of certificate to be annexed)
10. Have you ever been convicted in any offence in the Court of
Law?:———.
Yes/No
(If Yes indicate particulars)
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I am
aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false
or incorrect I am liable to be disqualified if the detection is made
before the appointment and to dismissal from service if the
inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
—––——,
Signature of applicant.
Date:
Certificate of the Head of the Government Department/
Ministry/Authority etc.
I hereby forward the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss
……………… who is employed in this Department/Ministry/
Corporation/Authority/Provincial Council as a …………… and
his/her work and conduct are satisfactory/not satisfactory. He can
be released from ……………….
Signature of the Head of the Department/Ministry/Corporation/
Provincial Council etc.
Name:———.
Post:———.
Address:———.
Date:———.
––––——,
Signature.
05-237
Posts of Additional Marriage Registrars of the
Registrar General’s Department – Gampaha District
Notice of Cancellation
I do hereby cancel the calling for applications for the following
Divisions as the amendments should be made to the Divisions
mentioned under para Nos. 08, 09, 10 of the notice for calling for
applications for the posts of Additional Marriage (General)
Registrars of Gampaha District, which was published by me in the
Gazette Notification  of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka No. 1,540 dated 07.03.2007.
The applications of the applicants who have already submitted
applicants are returned to them by registered post.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
28th April, 2008.
District Div isional Division and Post for which
Secretary’ s applications were called
Division
01. Gampaha Biyagama Post of A dditional Marriage
(General) Registrar in
Meegahawatta area in Siyane
Korale West Division
02. Gampaha Attanagalla Post of A dditional Marriage
(General) Registrar in Bemmulla
and Magalegoda areas in Siyane
Korale West Division
03. Gampaha Gampaha Post of Additional Marriage
(General) Registrar in  Aluthgama,
Bogamuwa area in  Siyane Korale
West Division
05-323

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
568
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  SRI  LANKA
AYURVEDIC  MEDICAL  SERVICE - 2008
IT’s hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for
Ayurvedic Medical Service (For Ayurvedic Medical Officers) will
be held at Colombo by the Department of Ayurveda.
01. Candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner of Ayurveda.
02. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appendix to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Application should be sent by the
registered post through the respective heads of the Department to
reach the Register Examination Division Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna, Maharagama on or before 30.05.2008. The name of the
examination should be indicated at the top left hand corner of the
envelop containing the application. Applications received after the
closing date will be rejected. The candidates appearing for the
examination for the first time need not pay examination fees.
However, stamps to the value of Rs. 90 should be affixed for the
whole examination for subsequent sittings and stamps to the value
of Rs. 50 should be affixed if only one subject is offered. The stamp
should be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and
the date. Under any circumstance the fees will not be refunded or
transferred in respect of examination.
03. Identity of the candidates - Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card Issued by the Department of
Registration of Person.
(ii) A valid Passport
04. The Commissioner, Department of Ayurveda will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been accepted. Candidates should get their
signature on the admission card attested in advance and surrender
to the supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without
admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. If
a candidate has not received his/her admission card at least seven
days(07) before the day of examination,  He/She should without
delay inform the Register Examination Division Department of
Ayurveda, Nawinna, Maharagama about the non-receipt of
admission cards along with the following information.
(i) Name of the Examination;
(ii) Full Name of the Candidate;
(iii) Full Postal Address;
(iv) Post Office, Registration Number and Date of dispatch
05. Scheme of Examination : According to the service minute of
the Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service:
(i) Financial Regulation - One paper based on the following -
(a) Financial Regulation of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka - Part I(Except chapter X)
(ii) Establishments Code - One paper based on the following:
(a) Chapters - I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIII, XIV ,
XXIII, XXVII, XXIX, XXX, XXXII of the V olume I
of the establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, and
(b) Chapters - XLVII and XLVIII of Part II of the
Establishments Code of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
(iii) Hospital Administration  - One paper based on the
following -
a. General rules and regulations operating in respect of
hospitals.
b. Cleanliness in hospitals.
c. Rules and Regulations operating in respect of patients.
d. Procurement of proper meals for the patients.
e. Drug factory administration
f. Rules and regulations governing the admission of
patients.
g. Understanding of the official duties of the employees
from medical superintendant downwards to
subordinate officers in hospitals.
h. General administrative functions in hospitals.
i. General administrative regulations of the Department
of Ayurveda
j. Regulations governing the accounting and maintenance
of documents and books at the stores of the
Department of Ayurveda.
k. Manual of procedure of the Department of Ayurveda.
(iv) Official Languages - This is an oral test of 15 minutes
duration. Candidates knowledge of language will be
examined as follows:
(a) For officers who joined the service in the Sinhalese
medium-
(i) Answering the Tamil questions in the Tamil
Language
(ii) Express Tamil sentences in the Sinhala Language
(iii) Express Sinhalese sentences in the Tamil Language.
For officers who joined the service in the Tamil medium -
(i) Answering the Sinhala questions in the Sinhalese
Language
(ii) Express Sinhalese sentences in the Tamil Language.
(iii) Express Tamil sentences in the Sinhala Language

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
569
Note - Candidate must obtain 40% of the marks.
R. P. W. GUNAWARDANE,
Commissioner of Ayurveda.
DEPARTMENT OF AYURVEDA.
Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna,
Maharagama.
28th April, 2008.
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR SRI LANKA
AYURVEDA MEDICAL SERVICE - 2008
Index No.:
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination:
Write the relevant letter in the cage
Sinhala - S T amil - T
01. Name with Initials : Mr./Ms./Mrs.:–––––––––.
 (In Capital Letters)
02. Name with Initials :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
(In capital letters)
04. Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institute:––
(In English Capital Letters)
07. Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institute:–––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil):–––––––––.
08. (i) Post:–––––––––.
(ii) Number of the letter of appointment:–––––––––.
09. Subject/s you offer
Number Subject Subject No.
10. Have you been passed the exam in previous sittings one
subject/more, Financial Regulations/Establishment code/Hospital
Management/Oral Examination(Tamil/Sinhala). If, the exam No. and
Date :–––––––––.
11. Are you sitting the examination for the first time?:––––.
If not, value of the stamps affixed :–––––––––.
Stamp Cage Stamp to the value of Rs. 90 for whole
Examination and Rs. 50 for each subject
Note :- The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant value
and cancel them by placing their signature and date. Stamps should
not overlap each other.
I declare that the above particulars are true that I am eligible to
appear for the examination in the language medium indicated above.
I also certify that the Rs. …………… Stamps affixed hereto are
genuine and have not been used before. I agree to abide by the rules
and regulations of this examination.
———————,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
Note :- The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to sign on
behalf of such Head of the Department.
Attestation of the Signature
I do hereby certify that ……………who forward this application
is known to me personally and that he/she place his/her signature
before me on …………….
——————,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
05-277
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATIONS  FOR  THE
OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA
ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  ANDHEALTH  SERVICE - 2007
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers
in the above mentioned Service will be held in Peradeniya in July,
2008. Applications are calling from the officers who were in the Sri
Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as at 30th October,
2007.
2. Time table will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for
the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the same time.
3. The syllabus and Rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency
Bar Examinations 1 and 2 are stated in the service minute.
Accordingly, syllabus for the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri
Lanka Animal Production and Health Service is indicated in Appendix
“A” and syllabus for the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examinations is
indicated in appendix “B”.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
570
And officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
4. The prescribed subjects are given below.
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service
1st Efficiency Bar 2nd Efficiency Bar
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subjects Duration
No. hours No. hours
01 funding sources 3 0 1 Part I 3
02 Administration 3 02 Part II 3
03 Dept. Regulations 2 03 Part III - Paper I 3
Paper I 04 Part III - Paper II 3
05 Part III - Paper III 3
04 Dept. Regulations 3 06 Part III - Peper IV 3
Paper II 07 Part III - Paper V 3
08 Part III - Paper VI 3
05 Special paper * 3 09 Part III - Paper VII 3
10 Part III - Paper VIII 3
11 Part III - Paper IX 3
12 Part III - Paper X 3
13 Part III - Paper XI 3
* Only for the Veterinary Research Officers.
Note: The candidates who sit for 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination should select either Part I or II  and two question papers from
the above Part III.
Candidate should obtain at least 40 marks for each paper.
5. The attention of candidates who sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below:-
“The medium for Departmental Examinations (including Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the Language
in which the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official Language. But the officers who entered
the service without a competitive examination should select either the Language in which the officer qualified for entry to the  Public
Service or the official language.
6. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of Examinations enabling the candidates to answer the following
papers in Sinhala, Tamil or English:
(a) Funding Sources;
(b) Administration;
(c) Departmental Regulations Paper I;
(d) Departmental Regulations Paper II;
7. If found later that the candidate has sit for the examination in a medium in which he is not entitled, his candidature will be
cancelled.
8. Candidates should prepare their applications according to the specimen application attached herewith using both sides of
foolscap paper. Candidates appearing for both examinations should submit separate applications for each examination.
9. The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by rules
and regulations enacted by him. The Rules and Regulations are published at the end of this notice.
10. Applications should be forward be through the Head of Department/Institute by registered Post to reach the Director
General, Department of Animal Product & Health, Peradeniya on or before 16th June, 2008. The applications received after the cl osing
date will be rejected.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
571
11. If a candidate does not receive his admission card at least 7 days before the examination, he should communicate to
Commissioner General of Examinations, P. O. Box 1508, Battaramulla. (Telegrams: “Exams” Colombo) immediately. The following
particulars should be given with the telegram:-
(1) Name of Examination;
(2) Full Name;
(3) Postal Address;
(4) Date of posting, Registration No. and the Post Office;
Those who reside close are advised to inform the “E” Branch of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
12. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to comply with the requirements as laid down in Paragraph II above will
not be entertained.
13. The attention of all the candidates is invited to Circular No. 274 of 29.06.1971 issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding the use of Identity Cards.It is the responsibility of candidates to prove their identity at the examinat ion hall.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the examination on the following basis:-
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this examination for the first time.
(b) For each subsequent sitting for whole examination: Rs. 100
Single subject: Rs. 50
This fee should be paid in revenue stamps and duly cancelled with the candidates signature.
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are required to pay the relevant fees as indicated above.
S
UNIMAL SENARATHNA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock Development.
Ministry of Livestock Development,
No. 45, St. Michael Road,
Colombo 03.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS - SRI LANKA
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS OF THE SRI LANKA
ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE – 2007
The name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
01. (a) Last name with initials:––––––––––.
(b) Name denoted by initials:––––––––––.
02. Date of Birth:––––––––––.
Year:––––––––––.           Month:––––––––––.            Date:––––––––––.
03. Designation:––––––––––.
Name of the Department:––––––––––.
04. Postal Address (for dispatch of admission card):––––––––––.
05. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health service:––––––––––.
06. The examination applied by the candidate:––––––––––.
(Delete the is inapplicable words)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
572
(a) 1st efficiency Bar Examination ( b) 2nd efficiency Bar Examinations
07. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the first paragraph of the notification (Should be written clearly)
(i) Subject No. …………………… Subject ………………
(ii) Subject No. …………………… Subject ………………
(iii) Subject No. …………………… Subject ………………
(iv) Subject No. …………………… Subject ………………
(v) Subject No. …………………… Subject ………………
08. The Language medium:––––––––––.
09. State whether you have sit for the whole/part of examination previously:––––––––––.
If So give the subjects, year and the month:––––––––––.
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated in
the paragraph 08.
I also declare that the stamps affixed to this application are valid and unused before the cancellation by me.
10. Examination fee Rs.:–––.
Cage for stamps
––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date:––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General Department of Animal Production and Health Forwarded:-
* I Certify that the Candidate whose particulars apper above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications
to sit for the examination in the medium stated in paragraph o8.
I also certify that the stamps have been duly affixed and cancelled by the candidate.
I attest the candidate’s signature.
––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department
and Designation.
Date:––––––––––.
(* May be deleted fee not be pay)
Annexure “A”
(a) The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the
following subjects:
1. Financial regulations
2. Administration
3. Departmental of Regulation - I
4. Departmental of Regulation - II
1. Financial Regulations
The Examination in financial regulations will be based on the following:
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka Part I (Except Chapter X);
(b) Estimates of the Current year. e. g.:- preparations of them funding scores Appropriation Act.
(c) Kacheries Accounts.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
573
Note: A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
2. Administration :
The Examination in administration will be based on the following:
(a) Office and Field Organizational methods;
(b) The Establishment Code (chapters I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII)
Note: A candidate of should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
3. Departmental Regulations - 1
The examination in Departmental Regulations will be based on the followings.
A two hour paper on the following subjects;
The ordinance for contagious Animal Diseases, Animal Act, Departmental Orders and circulars relevant to Veterinary Surgeon’s
Services.
Note: A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
4. Departmental Regulations - 2
A Three hour paper on the following subjects;
1. Dissemination of specimens, Laboratory identification including post-mortem examination, Pregnancies diagnosis, Vaccines
for contagious and infectious disease, sera logical test,
2. Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations, principles relevant to breeding and rearing of calves, hatching and
rearing of chicks by incubation, animal nutrition, food rationing usage, pasture fodder cultivation, preparation of silages
and Livestock Management.
3. Milk production, bottling and transportation of pasteurized milk, hygienic practices used for analysis of milk, bacteria
and fat in milk, separation of cream and processing of butter, ghee and curd.
4. Analysis of meat, including slaughtering of animals in abattoirs, identification of meat.
Note: A candidate should obtain 40% of the marks for a pass.
Appendix “B”
(a) The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and  Health Service will comprise the
following subjects:
Part I - Sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2, 8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2, 9:4, 9:6, 9:7 the syllabus can be
obtain from the Director General of Department of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya and all the
Provincial Directors” of the Provincial Directors office of Department of Animal and Health.
Part II - Sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1, 10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3, 10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8,
10:4:1. The syllabus can be obtain from the Director General of Department of Animal Production and
Health, Peradeniya and all Provincial Directors’ Office of Department of Animal Productions and Health.
Part III - Paper i - Epidemiology
Paper ii - Livestock Economics
Paper iii - Veterinary Public Health
Paper iv - Agriculture Extension
Paper v - Genetics and Breeding
Paper vi - Animal Physiology and reproduction
Paper vii - Housing for animals and Management
Paper viii - Animal Nutrition
Paper ix - Pasture and Fodder
Paper x - Applied Vet. Microbiology & Immunology
Paper xi - Applied Medicine, Pathology & Parasitology

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
574
Details can be obtained form the Director General of Department of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya and all
Provincial Directors’ Office of Department of Animal Production and Health.
05-236
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  CLASS I
OF  THE  GOVERNMENT  TRANSLATORS’  SERVICE  - 2008
AN Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class I of the Translators’ Service, as provided for in paragraph 08 of the Trans lators’
Service Minute published in the Government Gazette Extraordinary No. 829/7 dated 26.07.1994, will be held in Colombo by the
Commissioner General of Examinations in the month of August 2008. This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil & English mediums
and the language medium of examination applied initially will not be allowed to change.
02. The specimen form of application for this examination is published at the end of this notification. Applications should be
prepared correctly and legibly and the officers should send their applications through the respective Heads of Departments by r egistered
post to “reach The Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla,” on or before 16t h
June, 2008. The name of the examination should be indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is sent
to the Commissioner General of Examinations. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
03 (i) The application should be prepared on a paper 8" x 12" size, using both sides of the paper in such a manner that items
No. 1.0 to 2.10 appear on the first page and the remaining numbers in the second page. Although application form could
be typewtitten, it should be filled by the candidate’s own handwriting. Applications that are not complete in every
aspect and that do not comply with the specimen will be rejected without any notice. It would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the completed application form  at the candidate’s possession.
(ii) For the purposes of Official Language Policy, all the officers should prepare and fill their application forms in the
official language. The name of the examination appearing in the heading of the application form should be indicated in
English as well in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala medium applications and Tamil in Tamil Medium applications.
04. Syllabuses and Scheme of Examination:
1st Subject :- Paper 01
Translation of:
(i) A passage of general interest; and
(ii) Extracts from
(a) an official document or report; and
(b) a newspaper article or report
In one of the following ways selected, in accordance with the Candidate’s medium of translation.
(i) From Sinhala into Tamil
(ii) From Sinhala into English
(iii) From Tamil into English
Duration - 03 hours
Marks - 100
2nd Subject :- Paper 02
Translation of:
(i) A passage of general interest; and
(ii) Extracts from
(a) an official document or report; and
(b) a newspaper article or report– in one of the following ways selected, in accordance with the Candidate’s medium of
translation.
(i) From Tamil into Sinhala
(ii) From English into Sinhala
(iii) From English into Tamil
Duration :- 03 hours
Marks - 100

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
575
Candidates should obtain 40% or above of the total marks for each paper to pass the examination.
05. Candidate’s handwriting will be taken into consideration.
06. Examination Fees.— Examination fees  will be levied in respect of candidates for this examination on the following basis.
(a) No fees will be levied in respect of candidates appearing for the first time.
(b) Fees for appearing on a subsequent occasion will be Rs. 175 for the full examination and Rs. 90 for a single subject.
(c) The examination fee could be paid at any post office in the Island to be credited to the revenue head 4000-20-03-20-13
of the Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt obtained should be affixed to the relevant cage of the
application form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the cash receipt with the candidate.
(d) The examination fees will not be refunded or transferred in respect of any other examination under any circumstances.
07. Admission to the Examination:
(i) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to all applicants whose applications have been
received. Candidates must get their signatures in the admission card attested in advance and produce the admission
cards to the supervisor of the examination center, when presenting themselves for the examination. Candidates without
such admission cards will not be permitted either to enter the examination hall or sit the examination. A notification will
be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the
following in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations. i.e. certified photocopies of the application
form and the receipt kept at your possession , receipt of registration and, in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter
of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
(ii) Each candidate will be issued a timetable along with the admission card.
(iii) Candidates are bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
conduct of the Examination. They will be liable to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for the breach of these rules.
(iv) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed at the beginning of this Gazette.
Note:- The issue of an admission card to sit for the examination should not be considered as an acceptance of requisite
qualifications of a candidate to complete at the examination.
08. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations, to present themselves at the examination. Travelling expenses are not payable.
09. Identity of candidates .— Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each suhject they offer. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registrations of Persons.
(b) A valid passport
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any one of the above mentioned documents in addition to his
admission card is liable to be cancelled on the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. If a candidate does not receive his/her admission card at least seven days before the day of examination,  he/she should, a t
once, notify the Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, (Telegraphic Addres s
“Exams” Battaramulla) about non-receipte of the admission card along with the following information.
(i) Name of the Examination:
(ii) Full name of the Candidate:
(iii) Full Postal Address:
(iv) Date on which the application was posted through the Head of Department, Post Office, and the Registration Number:
(v) Photocopy of the cash receipt if any:

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
576
11. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in respect of any matter, which has not been
provided for in this notification.
A. NOBERT,
Director General of Combined Services.
Combined Services Division,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
29th April, 2008.
Specimen Application Form
(for office use only)
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  I  OF  THE
GOVERNMENT  TRANSLATORS’  SERVICE  –  2008
(N. B. – This form should be filled correctly and legibly by the candidates own handwriting.)
1.0 Medium of Translations of candidate as per Para 04 of the Gazette notification.
Paper 01 : From Sinhala into Tamil - 1
From Sinhala into English - 2
From Tamil into English - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Paper 02 : From Tamil into Sinhala - 4
From English into Sinhala - 5
From English into Tamil - 6
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Candidates may appear for either paper 01, paper 02 or both the papers.
2.0 Personal Information:
2.1 Name with initials in English block capitals:–       Eg:- SILV A, A. B.
2.2 Names denoted by initials in English block capitals:–––––––.
2.3 Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil):–––––––.
2.4 Name of Ministry/Department/Office:–––––––.
2.5 Office Address (in English block capitals):–––––––.
(The admission card will be sent to this address)
2.6 Sex:                          (Female – 1, Male – 0)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Date of Birth: Date:              Month:                        Year:
2.8 National Identity Card No.:
2.9 Present Post:–––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.05.2008
577
2.10 Number of the Appointment letter:–––––––.
03. 3.1 Are you appearing for this examination for the first time?:–––––––.
3.2 If not, number of the affixed cash receipt received by paying the examination fee:–––––––.
Date:–––––––.
Issued Post Office:–––––––.
The cash receipt, for payment of Rs. 90 for one subject and
Rs. 175 for whole examination, should be affixed here.
(Please keep a photocopy of the cash receipt)
4.0 Certificate of Candidate:
I declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the medium stated
above, and that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations  of this
examination imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
–––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date:–––––––.
5.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department:
I hereby certify that,
(i) this candidate is employed in this department as a Translator in Class I of the Translators’ Service;
(ii) the particulars furnished above are correct;
(iii) his/her work and conduct have been satisfactory throughout: and he/she has not been subjected to any form of
disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) during the 5 years preceding; and
(iv) he/she is eligible to sit for this examination;
(v) he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt has been affixed (delete if inapplicable).
–––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department
and Official Stamp.
Designation:–––––––.
Address:–––––––.
Date:–––––––.
05-321
PRINTED AT THE DEPA TMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.