

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
495
495
wxl 1"757 - 2012 uehs ui 04 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'05'04
No. 1,757 – FRIDAY, MAY 04, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th May, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th April,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... 496
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 499
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts I-III and III of the Gazette No. 1,756 of 27.04.2012 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
496
Posts - Vacant
SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCIAL  PUBLIC  SERVICE
COMMISSION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Posts of Translators in the Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Public Service – 2012
APPLICA TIONS are called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka
for the recruitment to the following vacant positions in the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service.
Post No. of vacancies
Translator (Sinhala/English) 01
Translator (Sinhala/Tamil) 01
02. Qualified candidates will be selected to be recruited by the
merit of an examination. Priority will be given to the applicants
who have permanent residency in the Sabaragamuwa Province.
Number of recruitments and the effective date of the appointment
will be determined by the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service
Commission. Final decision regarding this will be taken by the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service Commission. Recruitments
will be carried out for the prevailing and future vacancies. Selected
candidates will be appointed to Class I.
03. Service Conditions :–
3.1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
3.2 Should posses excellent character and sound physical
health ;
3.3 If the candidate is a permanent employee of Public Service
or Provincial Public Service, he/she should not be liable to
any disciplinary punishment and should have earned all
the increments during the period having a satisfactory
service record as at the closing date of applications.
N. B.– All the necessary qualifications should have been
fulfilled as at the closing date of applications.
04. Age limit.– Not below 21 years and not over 40 years of age
as at closing date of applications (The upper age limit will not
apply to the officers who are holding permanent posts in the Public
or Provincial Public Service).
05. Educational qualifications :–
1. (a) Be a Graduate of a recognized university ; or
(b) An attorney-at-law ; or
(c) Diploma in Commerce from a recognized technical
college or from a polytechnic institution ; or
(d) National Diploma in Technology from the Moratuwa
University ; and
2. Have a credit pass in the first language at the G . C. E.
(O/L) examination, with a credit pass or any higher
qualification acceptable in the second language.
Note.– A candidate who have passed in any two subjects
viz. Sinhala, English and Tamil at the degree examination
will be placed two steps above the initial salary of the
scale.
06. Salary scale .– As per Public Administrative Circular No.
06/2006(IV). Rs. 16,920 - 290x10 - 325x15 - 400x11 - Rs. 29,095
(MN-1-2006A) initial step will be 12th step.
07. Conditions of service. – This post is permanent and
pensionable and should subject to the financial regulations,
establishment code and the orders given from time to time by the
government or Provincial Public Service Commission and to the
departmental orders.
08. Examination and the syllabus .– This examination will be
conducted by the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service
Commission.
Written examination for the recruitment to the post of translator
Class I - Question papers of the following subjects :–
1. Translation 100 marks 3 hour duration
2. English Language 100 marks 1 1/2 hour duration
3. Sinhala Language 100 marks 1 1/2 hour duration
4. Tamil Language 100 marks 1 1/2 hour duration
5. Comprehension 100 marks 1 1/2 hour duration
Syllabus :–
Translation.– Translation of difficult passages taken from official,
scientific, legal and technical documents and classical literature
including extracts from an official document, report or newspaper
article either (i) or (ii) of the following :
(1) From Sinhala to Tamil and Tamil to Sinhala
(2) From Sinhala to English and English to Sinhala
English/Sinhala/Tamil language papers. – For this purpose
question papers will be designed in three languages and the candidate
should sit for the relevant papers in two languages :
(1) English Language .– A candidate will be required to
construct sentences using words given in an essay to bring
out their meaning, explain the meaning of idioms and to
analyze combine and complex phrases.
(2) Sinhala Language.– A candidate will be required to write
an essay to make a pre'cis to summarize a given passage in
candidate’s own words to construct sentences using words
to bring out their meaning to correct grammatical errors in
sentences and to explain the meaning of idioms.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
497
(3) Tamil Language.– A candidate will be required to write an
essay to make a pre' cis to summarize a given passage in
candidate's own words to construct sentences using words
to bring out their meaning to correct grammatical errors in
sentences and to explain the meaning of idioms.
(4) Comprehension .– The comprehension paper will be
prepared in Sinhala/Tamil/English language and the
candidates are allowed to answer the question papers in
one of the languages according to their choice. Candidates
will be given a set of passages and also candidates will be
presented with a set of alternative statements one of which
fits the content of the passage best. He/She would be
required to pick the most appropriate statement. In case
of other passages, questions will be set to test the extent
to which the candidate is able to grasp the meaning of the
passage.
N. B.– Marks will be deducted for bad handwriting and
grammatical mistakes. A candidate whose handwriting
is illegible is liable to be disqualified. A candidate will
be required to obtain a minimum of 40 percent in each
paper with a higher aggregate in order to be qualified
for an appointment.
09. Examination fee is Rs. 450. It can be paid to any ministry or
Department (except local government institutions) or any Divisional
Secretariat within the Sabaragamuwa Province and the receipt issued
for it should be affixed to the relevant place in the application
(keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful). This examination
fee shall be deposited to credit to the revenue Head No. 2003-90-01
of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council and this fee is not refundable
due to any reason and money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
10. On the presumption that all the candidates have fulfilled the
required qualifications, candidates who have submitted the
prescribed application forms will be allowed to sit for the
competitive examination. Issuing an admission card for the
competitive examination is not considered as a privilege to accept
the qualifications relevant to this post. Priority list for the
recruitment will be prepared from the candidates those who got
highest aggregate marks with 40% or more marks for each paper.
The candidates who pass the examination with highest merit will be
summoned for an interview and will examine their qualifications. If
it reveals that the candidate do not have relevant qualifications, he/
she will be considered as disqualified for the recruitment. No marks
will be given at this interview.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information. – Applications
should be filled with much attention and should include correct
information. If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the
examination, if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is
found to be false within his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully
suppressed by material fact, He/she will be liable to dismissal from
the public service.
12. The signature of the applicant should be attested by a
principal of a government school, justice of peace, commissioner
for oaths, notary public or any permanent officer who draws initial
monthly consolidated salary not less than Rs. 20,030 in the public
service or Provincial Public Service.
13. Method of application :–
(i) Application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be filled by the
candidate him/herself on A-4 size papers. It should be
specially noted that the application forms should be so
prepared that paragraphs 1 to 3 on the first side of the
papers and rest on the other papers.
(ii) Duly completed applications should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Secretary, Provincial Public
Service Commission, Provincial Council Complex, New
Town, Ratnapura on or before 05.06.2012. Top left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing the application should
be marked the name of the post applying. Name of the
examination appeared in the top of the application should
be marked in English also in the applications prepared in
Sinhala language or Tamil language.
(iii) Keeping a photocopy of the application will be useful
and the candidate him/herself should satisfy whether the
application he/she is preparing is in conformity with the
specimen application attached to this notification.
Inconsistent applications to the specimen application
form, incomplete applications and delayed applications
will be rejected. Receiving of the application will not be
acknowledged.
14. Date and the time table of the examination will be notified to
the candidates by the Provincial Public Service Commission.
15. In order to prove the identity at the examination, only the
National Identity Card or valid passport of the candidate will be
accepted.
16. General examination rules and regulations of the
Commissioner-General of examinations will be applied to this
examination also. Anyone who violate that rules and regulations
will be subject to penalty impose by the public service commission.
17. Candidate should submit the signature attested admission
card to the supervisor on the date of starting the examination.
18. Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service Commission
reserves the right to take final decision regarding the facts that are
not included in this notification.
S
UNETHRA GUNAWARDHANA,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service Commission,
Provincial Council Complex,
New Town, Ratnapura,
09th April, 2012.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
498
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
the Posts of Translator in the Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Public Service – 2012
Index No. :
(for office use only)
Language Medium in which you sit for the examination :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Town and No. of the town you expect to sit for the examination :
Town Town No.
Ratnapura - 1
Kegalle - 2
(The town applied cannot be changed afterwards)
1.0 1.1 Name at the end with initials :––––––––.
For Eg.– PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
2.2 Permanent address :––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 District of permanent residency :––––––––.
2.4 Province of permanent residency :––––––––.
2.5 The address to which the admission card should be sent
to :––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex : Male - 1
Female - 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year :                         Month :                Date :
3.3 Age as at 05.06.2012 :
Y ears :                  Months :                 Days :
4.0 Educational Qualifications :-
4.1 Details regarding G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/
N. G. E. C. Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––.
(iii) Result :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 Details regarding G . C. E. (A/L) examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––.
(iii) Result :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.0 Professional and other qualifications :––––––––.
6.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court of
Law ? (indicate in the relevant cage) If yes, give details :
Ye s N o
7.0 If you are alerady a government employee :
7.1 Address of the department/institution :––––––––.
7.2 Present post :––––––––.
7.3 Duration of service :––––––––.
7.4 Whether permanent and pensionable or temporary :––––.
8.0 Information regarding the payment of examination fee :
(i) The office which the payment was done :––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the receipt :––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :––––––––.
Affix the receipt so as not be detached
(keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful)
9.0 Certificate of the Applicant :
(a) I declare respectfully, the information given in this
application form is true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I agree to bear the loss due to does
not filling any part and/or filling incorrectly this application
form. Further I declare that I have accurately filled all the
parts of this application.
(b) It is liable to cancel my candidature before the examination
or aftermath and dismiss if it is revealed that the false
information has been furnished by me.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
499
(c) Further I also agree to abide by all the rules and regulations
imposed by the commissioner general of examinations.
(d) I will not alter any information furnished by me here in the
future.
––––––––––,
Applicant's signature.
Date :––––––––.
10. Attestation of the Applicant's Signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ....................... is known to me
personally and put his/her signature in my presence on this ........
day of .......... 2012. And I further certify that he/she has paid the
relevant examiantion fee and affixed receipt here.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attesting Officer.
Date :––––––––.
Full name of attesting officer :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Address :––––––––.
(Official seal should be placed)
11. Certification of the head of the Department/Institution or by
an officer authorized to do so for the applicants already
employed in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service :
(1) This is to certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................who is
serving in the post of ......... since .......... in this Department,
has earned all the increments of the salary, not been
subjected to any disciplinary punishment against his/her
except advices and all the particulars furnished in the
application are true and accurate.
(2) I further certify that if he/she is selected to the aforesaid
post, the applicant can be/cannot be released from the
present post he is now employed.
–––––––––––,
Head of the Department/Institution/
Empowered Officer.
Date :––––––––.
Name :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Department/Institution :––––––––.
(Please place the official seal)
05–22
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
SOUTHERN  PROVINCE  PUBLIC  SERVICE
COMMISSION
Competitive Examination to recruit for the Vacancies in
the Southern Province Public Service – 2012
APPLICATIONS are called by this Commission from applicants
with the following qualifications to be recruited for the following
posts that have fallen vacant in the Southern Province Public Service.
Closing date for applications is 05.06.2012.
Code :
(a) Open Competitive Examination to recruit for the post of
Rural Development Officer Class II.
(b) Open Competitive Examination to recruit for the post of
Nursing Officer Grade III of Soutern Provincial Social
Services Department.
(c) Open and Limited Competitive Examinations to recruit
for the post of Weaving Instructress Grade III.
(d) Open and Limited Examinations to recruit for the post of
Paper Industry Demonstrator/Instructor Grade III.
(e) Open and Limited Examinations to recruit for the post of
Coir Industry Demonstrator/Instructor Grade III.
(f) Competitive Examination to recruit for category B II female
Ward Clerk in the Southern Provincial Department of Health.
02. The number to be recruited will be decided by Southern
Province Public Service Commission, depending on the number of
vacancies that exists for the above posts at the time of recruitment.
03. Qualifications :
(i) Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be a person with excellent moral character and
sound health ;
(iii) For the post of Rural Development Officer, residence
for 03 consecutive years within the district applied for
during a period of 05 years immediately preceding the
closing date for applications needs to be confirmed and
for other posts permanent residence in Southern
Provincial Council area for 03 consecutive years within
a period of 05 years immediately preceding closing date
for applications must be confirmed.
The following documents must be submitted at the
interview to confirm residence.
(a) Extract of the electoral list issued by the
Commissioner of Elections.
(b) Certificate confirming residence issued by the Grama
Niladhari and counter signed by the Divisional
Secretary.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
500
Note.– In the absence of qualified applicants within
the Southern Provincial Council area, applications
sent by residents of other provinces will also be
considered, only for the Post of Paper Industry
Demonstrator/Instructor.
(iv) Where officers confirmed in the Public Service/Provincial
Public Service apply for the above posts, they should
not have been subjected to any disciplinary action within
the five years immediately preceding the closing date
for applications and they should have earned all the
increments during that period and possess a satisfactory
service record.
(v) The following educational qualifications must be fulfilled
with respect to each of the above posts prior to the
closing date for applications.
A. Rural Development Officer Class II  :
(a) Possession of a degree from a University recognized by
the University Grants Commission ; or
(b) Should have passed the G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
Examination in 03 subjects at one sitting ; and
Possession of 07 years of continuous active service as at
the closing date for applications, in the post of
Management Assistant or a Post requiring higher
qualifications, in Public Service or Provincial Public Service,
should have earned all the increments for the qualifying
period of service and should not have been subjected to
disciplinary action within the same period.
Note.– All applicants should have passed the G. C. E.
(Ordinary Level) Examination in 6 subjects including
Sinhala/Tamil and Mathematics with credits for four
subjects (4 credits) at not more than two sittings.
B. Nursing Officer Grade III of the Southern Province Social
Services Department :
(a) Should have passed the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in 6 subjects with Mathematics and Credit
passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English, Science/Health Science
and one other subject (3 credits) at one sitting ; and
(b) Should have passed at least one subject (other than
Common General Test) at the G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
Examination ; and
(c) Should possess a certificate confirming one year of
practical experience in Health Care and Nursing at a
registered Nursing Home.
C. Weaving Instructress.– Open Competitive Examination  :
(a) Should have passed the G . C. E. Ordinary Level
Examination in six subjects with credit passes for three
subjects (3 credits) including Sinhala/Tamil/English and
Mathematics at not more than two sittings ; and
(b) Should have obtained the Higher Certificate of Three
Year Course Certificate on Weaving from a Government
Institution of Fine Arts ; or
Three year or Two year certificate issued by the
Department of Textiles ; or
Should have three year's experience as a Weaver at an
Institution recognized by the government, with a credit
pass for the subject of Weaving at the G . C. E. (Ordinary
Level) Examination.
Weaving Instructress.– Limited Competitive
Examination :
(a) Should have passed the G. C. E. Ordinary Level
Examination in six subjects with credit passes for
three subjects (3 credits) including Sinhala/Tamil/
English and Mathematics at not more than two
sittings ; and
(b) Should have obtained the Higher Certificate or
three year course certificate on weaving from a
Government Institution of Fine Arts ; or
Three year or two year certificate issued by the
Department of Textiles ; or
Should have three years’ experience as a Weaver
at an institution recognized by the government,
with a credit pass for the subject of Weaving at
the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination ; and
(c) Being an employee belonging to Primary Grade
Non Technical, Semi Technical or Technical Class
with a satisfactory period of service.
D. Paper Industry Demonstrator/Instructor - Limited
Competitive Examination  :
(a) Should have passed the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects including Mathematics at
not more than two sittings ; and
(b) Should have followed a course with a duration of a
minimum of six months conducted by the Southern
Province Department of Industry (Deputy Secretariat
of Industry of the Southern Province) or an institution
recgonized by the government or the National Craft
Council with relevance to Paper Industry ; or
Should have two years’ experience in the field of paper
industry.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
501
Paper Industry Demonstrator/Instructor-Open
Competitive Examination  :
(a) Should have passed the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects including Mathematics at
not more than two sittings ; and
(b) Should be permanent employee at a paper industry
under the Southern Province Ministry of Industry
with two years’ experience.
E. The Post of Coir Industry Demonstrator/Instructor-Open
Competitive Examination  :
(a) Should have passed the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects including Mathematics at not
more than two sittings ; and
(b) Should have followed a course with a duration of a
minimum of six months conducted by the Southern
Province Department of Industry (Deputy Secretariat of
Industry of the Southern Province) or an institution
recognized by the government or the National Craft Council
with relevance to Coir Industry ; or
Should have two years’ experience in the field of coir
industry.
The Post of Coir Industry Demonstrator/Instructor-
Limited Competitive Examination  :
(a) Should have passed the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects including Mathematics at
not more than two sittings ; and
(b) Should be a permanent employee at a coir industry
under the Southern Province Ministry of Industry
with two years’ experience.
F. Female Ward Clerk Section II'B' of Southern Province
Department of Health :
(a) Should have passed the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six subjects (6) with credit passes for
four subjects (4 credits) including Sinhala/Tamil/English
or Literature and Mathematics at not more than two
sittings ; or
Should have passed the National Certificate of General
Education Examination in at least 06 subjects with 'B'
passes for four subjects including First Language and
Mathematics at not more than two sittings ; or
Should have passed a similar examination.
Note .– Junior female employees with the above
qualifications who are serving at the Department and
have completed not less than 06 years of permanent
satisfactory service including the uninterrupted casual
period of service also qualify to apply for this post.
04. Age :
A. The Post of Rural Development Officer Class II :
Should be not less than 22 years and not more than 35
years as at the closing date for applications.
B. The Post of Nursing Officer Grade III of the Southern
Province Department of Social Services :
Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years as at the closing date applications.
C. Weaving Instructress :
Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35
years as at the closing date for applications. Maximum
age limit does not apply for limited applicants already in
Public Service and Provincial Public Service.
D. Post of Paper Industry Demonstrator/Instructor :
Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 40
years as at the closing date for applications. Maximum
age limit does not apply for closed applicants already in
Public or Provincial Public Service.
E. Post of Coir Industry Demonstrator/Instructor :
Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 40
years as at the closing date for applications. Maximum
age limit does not apply for limited applicants already in
Public or Provincial Public Service.
F. Female Ward Clerk Section II'B' of Southern Province
Department of Health :
Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 45
years as at the closing date for applications. Maximum
age limit does not apply for applicants already in Public
or Provincial Public Service.
05. Salary Scale :
A. Post of Rural Development Officer Class II :
As per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv)
MN 5-2006 - A monthly salary scale is Rs. 16,720 -
10x320 - 11x365 - 15x450 - Rs. 30,685,
B. For the Posts of Nursing Officer Grade III of the
Southern Province Department of Social Service ,
C. Weaving Instructress,
D. Paper Industry Demonstrator/Instructor,
E. Post of Coir Industry Demonstrator/Instructor ; and
F. Female Ward Clerk Section II'B' of Southern Province
Department of Health :
As per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv)
MN 1-2006 - A monthly salary scale is Rs. 13,120-
10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 - 10 x 320 - Rs. 22,040.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
502
06. Application :
(a) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen form given at the end of this notification, using
both sides of A4 (21x30 c.m.) paper. Duly prepared
application with No. 01 to 09 on the first page and No.
10 to 12 on the second page should be filled in the
applicant's own handwriting.
(b) Applications duly completed should be sent to "Secretary,
Southern Province Public Service Commission, 6th Floor,
District Secretariat Building, Galle" before 05.06.2012,
by registered post. "Open/Limited Competitive
Examination to recruit for the Post of ........... (name of
the relevant post) in the Southern Province Public Service"
should be written in the top left hand corner of the
envelope. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
application. Where the same applicant is applying for
more than one post, separate applications shold be
forwarded for each post and any certificate or photocopy
should not be attached to the application.
(c) Application should be prepared in the medium in which
applicant will face the examination.
(d) Applicants serving in Public or Provincial Public Service
should submit their applications through the respective
Heads of the Department.
(e) Applications not in compliance with the specimen form,
incomplete applications, applications accompanied by
receipts for exam fees carrying a date later than the closing
date for applications, applications not attached with the
receipt for exam fees and applications received after the
closing date will be rejected without notice. This
Commission will not accept responsibility for applications
lost or delayed in the post. Applications will not be
acknowledged.
(f) Applicant's signature on the application should be attested
by the Principal of a Government School, a Justice of the
Peace, a Commissioner for Oaths, a Commissioned Officer
of the armed forces, a Notary Public, an Officer of the
Police Service holding a gazetted post or a Staff Grade
Officer holding a permanent post in Public or Provincial
Public Service.
07. Examination Fees :
(a) Every applicant should firmly affix the receipt obtained
from any Divisional Secretariat situated within the
Southern Province on the payment of Rs. 400 as
examination fee to be credited to Revenue Head No. 20-
03-20-39 of the Cheif Secretary of the Southern Province,
on the cage specified on the application. It is advisable to
keep a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant.
Applications with receipts obtained in any manner of
payment other than that specified here will be rejected
and this examination fee is not refundable or transferable
under any circumstances.
(b) Issuing an admission card for the examination to a
candidate should not be considered as an acceptance of
the fact that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications required
to sit for the examination. Candidates sitting the
examination should produce to the Head of the
examination hall the admission cards with the signature
attested. Further, candidates should prove their identity
to the Head of the examination hall in  a satisfactory
manner, for each paper he/she would sit for. Any one of
the following documents shall be produced to the Head
of the examination hall for that purpose :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons,
(ii) Valid Passport.
Applicants who fail to receive the admission cards
07 days before the date of the examination should
inform the Secretary to the Southern Province
Public Service Commission of the fact in writing
or by calling No. 0912234309 with the following
details :–
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of the applicant ;
(iii) Complete address ;
(iv) Name of the post office from where application
was posted, registration number and the date.
In case of failure to receive admission due to
non receipt or loss of application, the applicant
should present himself/herself with a copy of
the application and a copy of the registration
slip to obtain the admission card.
08. Terms and Conditions of Employment :
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. Employee
should contribute to the Widows' and Orphans' Pension
Fund as per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006.
(b) If the selected applicants have not been confirmed in a
post in Public Service by the time of selection, they will
be appointed to the relevant posts subject to a probation
period of three years. In case of an officer confirmed in a
pensionable post in Public Service, his appointment will
be subject to a probation period of one year.
09. Medium.– The examination will be held in all three mediums
of Sinhala, Tamil and English. Change of the medium applied for
will not be allowed.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
503
10. Examination procedure :
(a) Rural Development Officer Class II
1. Aptitude test - Duration 1 hour ; Marks 100.
2. General Knowledge - Duration 1 hour ; marks 100.
Over 40% marks should be scored for each subject to
pass.
(b) The post of Nursing Officer Grade III of the Southern
Province Department of Social Services :
General Knowledge and Aptitude Test - Duration 1 hour ;
marks 100.
Over 40% marks should be scored to pass.
(c) Weaving Instructress :
1. Written test :
Subject related question paper - Duration 3 hours ;
marks 100.
A question paper prepared to cover calculation in
Weaving, Weaving Figures, Drawing of Looms and
General Knowledge on Weaving.
Over 40% marks should be scored to pass.
2. Practical Test - Duration 2 hours ; marks 100.
A practical test on professional skills relevant to the
profession.
Over 50% marks should be scored to pass.
(d) Paper Industry Demonstrator/Instructor :
1. Written Test :
Subject related question paper - Duration 3 hours ;
marks 100.
A question paper prepared to cover Fundamentals of
manual paper production, Types of manually produced
paper and production process, knowledge of chemicals
used for manual paper production and preparation of
estimates of manual paper production.
Over 40% marks should be scored to pass.
2. Practical Test - Duration 2 hours ; marks 100.
A practical Test on professional skills related to the
profession.
Over 50% marks should be scored to pass.
(e) Post of Coir Industry Demonstrator/Instructor  :
1. Written Test
Subject related question paper - Duration 3 hours ;
marks 100.
A question paper prepared to cover calculations,
preparation of coir and identifying types of coir,
preparation of estimates and designing with relevance
to coir industry, types of dyes, weave methods, types
of door mats and methods of dying.
Over 40% marks should be scored to pass.
2. Practical Test - Duration 2 hours, marks 100.
A practical test on professional skills relevant to the
profession.
Over 50% marks should be scored to pass.
(f) Female Ward Clerk Section II'B' of Southern Province
Department of Health :
1. Intelligence Test - Duration 1 hour ; marks 100.
2. General Knowledge - Duration 1 hour, marks 100.
Over 40% marks should be scored for each subject to
pass.
11. Proposed towns for holding the Examination .– Towns
proposed for setting up examination centre are as follows. Where
there aren't a sufficient number of applicants for a certain town, the
examination will be held in the next closest town. Applicant should
mention as the town, only one of the following in the district where
the applicant permanently resides.
District Town
Galle Galle
Matara Matara
Hambantota T angalle
12. Method of Selection :
(a) Suitable  persons will be selected for these posts based
on merit shown at the test mentioned in paragraph 10
above followed by an interview held to check
qualifications as per the provisions of P. A. C. 15/90 and
according to the district population ratio. (In granting
appointments, in case of several applicants with equal
marks at the final priority level for granting appointment
as per the number of existing vacancies, an interview will
be held to select in order the persons with the highest
qualifications in terms of educational qualifications.)
Only the appilcants from a certain district are eligible to
compete for the vacancies in that district.
(b) For the posts of Weaving Instructress, Paper Industry
Demonstrator/Instructor and Coir Industry
Demonstrator/Instructor, a number of applicants equal
to double the number of existing vacancies will be called
for the professional aptitude test in the order of merit of

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
504
the total marks scored at the written test and it requires
over 50% marks to pass.
(c) Every applicant will be given the opportunity to sit for
the exam without checking the qualifications. Based on
merit of examination results they will be called for the
interview and those who have not qualified according to
the notification by the closing date for applications will
not be eligible to be granted an appointment.
13. Provision of false information.– In case a candidate is found
not to have fulfilled the qualifications required to sit for this
examination, his/her candidacy may be cancelled at any time, prior
to the examination, in the course of the examination or following
the examination. Even after recruitment, if any information
furnished by a candidate is found to be false, his/her service shall be
terminated.
Final decision regarding any matter not contained in this
notification will be taken by the Southern Province Public Service
Commission.
S
AMAN DARSHANA PANDIKORALA,
Secretary,
Southern Province Public Service Commission.
Southern Province Public Service Commission,
6th Floor, District Secretariat Building,
Galle,
17th April, 2012.
(This Commission will not accept the responsibility in any
manner regarding applications containing matters mentioned in
notifications falsely prepared and published by various institutions,
based on this notification).
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
Code relevant for the post Open/Limited (O/L)
(A/B/C/D/E/F)
District of permanent residence :
.................. C
OMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT FOR THE POST OF ............. IN SOUTHERN PROVINCE PUBLIC SERVICE – 2012
For office use only
Medium of choice to sit for the examination (Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
(Indicate the relevant number in the box)
City of the examination centre
(Refer paragraph II of the examination notification.)
01. Applicant's name with initials :–––––––––––.
(i) In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
(ii) In English (In capital letters) :–––––––––––.
Eg.– NIMAL M. A. S.
02. Names denoted by the initials :–––––––––––.
03. (i) Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Name and address of the place of work :–––––––––––.
(iii) Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
04. Address for sending the admissions :
(i) In Sinhala :–––––––––––.
(ii) In English (In capital letters) :–––––––––––.
05. Sex : Female - 1, Male - 0 (Indicate the relevant number in the box)
06. National Identity Card Number :
Date of issue :–––––––––––.
07. Marital status : Single - 1, Married - 2

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
505
08. Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
Age as at the closing date for applications :
Years :                  Months : Days :
09. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by birth or by registration :–––––––––––.
(i) District of your permanent residence :–––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––––.
(iii) Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
(iv) Duration of residence in the district : from :––––––––––– up to :–––––––––––.
10. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––.
10.1 Details of the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
First sitting :–––––––––––. Second sitting  :–––––––––––.
Year :–––––––––––. Year :–––––––––––.
Index No. :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass Subject Pass Subject Pass
1. 5 1. 5.
2. 6. 2. 6.
3. 7. 3. 7.
4. 8. 4. 8.
10.2 Details of the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year and Month : Index Number :
Subject Pass Subject Pass
1. 3.
2. 4.
10.3 Details of the Degree/Professional qualifications obtained :
Name of the Degree/Diploma/ Date of award Subjects Pass Name of the issuing
Professional Certificate University/Institute
11. If a serving employee of Public Service :
(i) Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
(ii) Current Post :–––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment : From :––––––––––– up to :–––––––––––.
(iv) Whether permanent and pensionable or casual :–––––––––––.
(Attach a copy of the letter of confirmation).

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
506
12. Firmly paste the receipt for payment of Examination fee here. (Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you) :–––––––––––.
Applicant's declaration :
I hereby admit that all information furnished by me is accurate and true according to the best of my knowledge and belief, the
receipt bearing No. ................ and dated .............. issued by ....................... Divisional Secretariat on payment of examination fee is affixed
here and that I may be subject to dismissal if I am found to be not eligible for this post prior to or after the examination or  after being
appointed to the post. Further, I agree to abide by the rules and regulations effected by Southern Province Public Service Commission in
relation to holding this examination.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Attesting the applicant's signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................... submitting this application is known to me personally and that he/s he
placed his/her signature before me on .......................
––––––––––––––––,
Attester's Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––. (Place the official seal).
(If the applicant is already serving in Public or Provincial Public Service, the application should be certified by the Head of the
Department).
Certification by the Head of the Institution/Department :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................... submitting this application has been serving at ..................... .. with effect
from........ in the Post of .................., his/her service is satisfactory, he/she can/cannot be released from the current  post if he/she gets
selected for an appointment on the results of this examination, he/she has not been subjected to any form of disciplinary action (other than
warnings) up to now and that the information furnished above is true.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Institution/Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the Head of the Institution/Department :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Place the official seal).
05–76

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
507
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 0 3,120 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 0 3,120 0
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 0 3,120 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 0 6,240 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 0 3,120 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 0 3,120 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 0 2,400 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 420 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 180 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I  (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
508
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2012
MAY 04.05.2012 Friday — 20.04.2012 Friday 12 noon
11.05.2012 Friday –– 27.04.2012 Friday 12 noon
18.05.2012 Friday –– 04.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
25.05.2012 Friday –– 11.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
JUNE 01.06.2012 Friday — 18.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
08.06.2012 Friday –– 25.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
15.06.2012 Friday –– 01.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
22.06.2012 Friday –– 08.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
29.06.2012 Friday –– 15.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
JULY 06.07.2012 Friday — 22.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
13.07.2012 Friday –– 29.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
20.07.2012 Friday –– 06.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
27.07.2012 Friday –– 13.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.