

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2387$37 - 2024 cqks ui 06 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2024.06.06
No. 2387/37  -  thursday,   juNe  06,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 42031 - 05 (06/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
 FINANCE ACT No. 11 OF 1963
Rules of the National Lotteries Board
rules made by the National lotteries Board in terms of the provisions of subsection (1) of section 14, section 16 and 
section 20 of the Finance act, No.11 of 1963 and approved by the Minister of Finance, under subsection (3) of section 20 
of the said act. 
 Chameera Chandrabhaya yapa abeywardena, 
	 Chairman/Chief	Executive	Officer,
 National lotteries Board.
Colombo, 
21st May 2024. 
rules
1. these rules may be cited as the National lotteries Board rules No. 1 of 2023.
2. the National lotteries Board (hereinafter referred to as “the NlB”) shall in terms of subsection (1) of section 14 of 
the Finance act conduct the following national lotteries:-
(a) Mahajana sampatha;
(b) Govisetha;
(c) Mega Power;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
2a
(d) lucky 7 VIP;
(e) NlB handahana;
(f) dhana Nidhanaya;
(g) NlB Mega Millions;
(h) sevana scratch lottery; and
(i) samurdhi scratch lottery
3. the NlB shall conduct the Mahajana Sampatha national lottery referred to in rule 2(a) above subject to the 
conditions set out hereunder :-
(1) there shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.
 (2)  every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (rs.40/-).
 (3) each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize.
(4) the numbering of tickets shall be from the number 000000 to number 999999. In every ticket six 
numbers within the range of zero to nine (0 to 9) shall be printed together with a letter from ‘a ’ to ‘Z’ 
of the english alphabet except the letter “I”. every  printed / digital  ticket shall  also contain a serial  
number in three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick 
response code format.
(5) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, a letter from a barrel which contains letters from 
‘a ’ to ‘Z’ except the letter ‘I’ of the english alphabet shall be drawn. In addition, six numbers shall be 
drawn, one number each from six barrels, with each barrel containing the numbers from zero to nine 
(0 to 9). Modern technology may be used for the lottery draw.
(6) the prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-
(a)	 fifty	percent	(50%)of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	the	award	of	
prizes;
(b)	 twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	Agency	
Commission	(Commission	for	a	Dealer	1.25%	and	Commission	for	an	Agent	18.75%);	
(c)	 sixteen	point	five	percent	(16.5%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	
to the Consolidated Fund;
(d)	 thirteen	point	five	percent	(13.5%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	
to the NlB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;
(e) where the english letter and the six numbers in a ticket agree with the english letter and six 
numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, such ticket shall be awarded the super prize 
of not less than twenty million rupees (rs.20,000,000/-);
(f) where the six numbers in a ticket agree with the six numbers drawn consecutively from left to 
right,	such	ticket	shall	be	awarded	two	million	five	hundred	thousand	rupees	(Rs.2,500,000/-); 
(g)	 where	the	last	five	numbers	in	one	or	more	tickets	agree	with	the	last	five	numbers	drawn	
consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded one hundred thousand 
rupees (rs.100,000/-);
(h) where the last four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last four numbers drawn 
consecutively	from	left	to	right,	each	such	ticket	shall	be	awarded	fifteen	thousand	rupees	
(rs.15,000/-);

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
3a
(i) where the last three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last three numbers drawn 
consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded two thousand rupees 
(rs.2,000/-);
(j) where the last two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last two numbers drawn 
consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded two hundred rupees 
(rs.200/-);
(k) where the last number in one or more tickets agrees with the last number drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded forty rupees (rs.40/-);
(l)	 where	the	first	five	numbers	in	one	or	more	tickets	agree	with	the	first	five	numbers	drawn	
consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred 
thousand rupees (rs.100,000/-);
(m)	 where	the	first	four	numbers	in	one	or	more	tickets	agree	with	the	first	four	numbers	drawn	
consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand 
rupees (rs.2,000/-);
(n)	 where	the	first	three	numbers	in	one	or	more	tickets	agree	with	the	first	three	numbers	drawn	
consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred 
rupees (rs.200/-);
(o)	 where	the	first	two	numbers	in	one	or	more	tickets	agree	with	the	first	two	numbers	drawn	
consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of eighty rupees 
(rs.80/-);
(p)	 where	the	first	number	in	one	or	more	tickets	agrees	with	the	first	number	drawn,	each	such	
ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs.40/-);
(q) where the english letter in one or more tickets agrees with the english letter drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (40/-);
  (r) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows – 
Prize structure
Prize english 
letter
Winning Numbers amount
super Prize X X X X X X X rs. 20,000,000/- 
1    prize X X X X X X rs.2,500,000/-     each
2    prize X X X X X rs.   100,000/-     each
3    prize X X X X rs.     15,000/-     each
4    prize X X X rs.       2,000/-     each
5    prize X X rs.          200/-     each
6    prize X rs.            40/-     each
7    prize X X X X X rs.   100,000/-     each
8    prize X X X X rs.       2,000/-     each
9    prize X X X rs.          200/-     each
10  prize X X rs.            80/-     each
11  prize X rs.            40/-     each
12  prize X rs.            40/-     each

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
4a
(s) the value of the super prize of the Mahajana sampatha lottery will start at twenty million 
rupees (rs. 20,000,000/-);
(t) if the existing super prize is won a new super prize will start at twenty million rupees         
(rs. 20,000,000/-) utilising the Mahajana sampatha Prize reserve account;
(u)	 in	the	event	of	the	any	money	remaining	after	the	award	of	prizes	out	of	the	fifty	percent	
(50%)	of	ticket	sales	proceeds	allocated	for	the	award	of	prizes,	twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	
said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next super prize and the balance 
eighty	percent	(80%)	shall	be	credited	to	the	Mahajana	Sampatha	Prize	Reserve	Account	in	
accordance with the provisions of subsection (1a) of section 17 of the Finance act;
(v) where in any Mahajana sampatha lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of 
prizes	are	insufficient	to	award	the	total	number	of	prizes	won,	the	money	in	the	Mahajana	
sampatha Prize reserve account or any other Prize reserve account shall be utilised to 
meet the shortfall; 
(w) the NlB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the Mahajana sampatha Prize reserve 
account for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NlB if it is 
deemed necessary; and
(x) the effective date of the above prize structure is 21st july 2023 and the draw number is 5182. 
4. the NlB shall conduct the Govisetha national lottery referred to in rule 2(b) above subject to the conditions set 
out hereunder:-
(1) there shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.
(2) every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (rs. 40/-).
(3) each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize.
(4) In every ticket four numbers within the range of one to eighty (1 to 80) shall be printed together with 
a letter from ‘a ’ to ‘Z’. every printed ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely 
the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format.
For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, four numbers from a barrel which contains numbers 
from one to eighty (1 to 80) shall be drawn. In addition, a letter from a separate barrel containing the 
letters from ‘a ’ to ‘Z’ of the english alphabet shall be drawn. Modern technology may be used for the 
lottery draw.
(5) the prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-
a)	 forty	nine	percent	(49%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	the	
award of prizes;
b)	 twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	Agency	
Commission	(Commission	for	a	Dealer	1.25%	and	Commission	for	an	Agent	18.75%);	
c)	 ten	percent	(10%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	relevant	
fund through the  Consolidated Fund;
d)	 twenty	one	percent	(21%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	
NlB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
5a
e) where the four numbers and the english letter in a ticket agree with the four numbers and 
the english letter drawn, such ticket shall be awarded the super prize of not less than sixty 
million rupees (rs. 60,000,000/-);
f) where the four numbers in a tickets agree with the four numbers drawn, each such ticket 
shall be awarded a sum of two million rupees (rs. 2,000,000/-);
g) where any three numbers and the english letter in one or more tickets agree with any three 
numbers and the english letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of  two 
hundred	and	fifty	thousand	rupees	(Rs.	250,000/-);
h) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each 
such	ticket	shall	be	awarded	a	sum	of	five	thousand	rupees	(Rs.	5,000/-);
i) where any two numbers and the english letter in one or more tickets agree with any two 
numbers and the english letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of  two 
thousand rupees (rs. 2,000/-);
j) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each 
such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (rs. 200/-);
k) where any one number and the english letter in one or more tickets agree with any one 
number and the english letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two 
hundred rupees (rs. 200/-);
l) where any one number in one or more tickets agrees with any one number drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-);
m) where the english letter in one or more tickets agrees with the english letter drawn, each 
such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-);
n) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows – 
Prize structure
super 
Prize
english letter and 4 numbers correct rs.         60,000,000/-
1   prize all 4 numbers correct rs.           2,000,000/- each
2   prize english letter and 3 numbers correct rs.              250,000/- each
3   prize 3 numbers correct rs.                  5,000/- each
4   prize english letter and 2 numbers correct rs.                  2,000/- each
5   prize 2 numbers correct rs.                     200/- each
6   prize english letter and 1 number correct rs.                     200/- each
7   prize 1 number correct rs.                       40/- each
8   prize english letter correct rs.                       40/- each
o) the value of the super prize of the Govisetha lottery will start at sixty million rupees  
(rs. 60,000,000/-);

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
6a
p) if the existing super prize is won a new super prize will start at sixty million rupees                      
(rs. 60,000,000/-) utilising the Govisetha Prize reserve account;
q) in the event of any money remaining after the award of prizes out of the forty nine percent 
(49%)	of	ticket	sales	proceeds	allocated	for	the	award	of	prizes,	ten	percent	(10%)	of	
the said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next super prize and the 
balance	ninety	percent	(90%)shall	be	credited	to	the	Govisetha	Prize	Reserve	Account	in	
accordance with the provisions of subsection (1a) of section 17 of the Finance act;
r) where in any Govisetha lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes are 
insufficient	to	award	the	total	number	of	prizes	won,	the	money	in	the	Govisetha	Prize	
reserve account or any other prize reserve account shall be utilised to meet the shortfall;
s) the NlB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the Govisetha Prize reserve account for 
the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NlB if it is deemed 
necessary; and
t) the effective date of the above prize structure is 6th july 2023 and the draw number is 
3409. 
5. the NlB shall conduct the Mega power national lottery referred to in rule 2(c) above (which was previously 
conducted under the name “Power lotto”) subject to the conditions set out hereunder :-
(1) there shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.
(2) every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (rs. 40/-).
(3) each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize. Provided however if the super number drawn 
matches with the super number in any winning ticket such winning ticket shall in addition be awarded 
a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-)
(4) In every ticket a super number within the range of one to twenty six (1 to 26), a letter from ‘a ’ to ‘Z’ 
of the english alphabet and four numbers within the range of one to eighty (1 to 80) shall be printed. 
every printed ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely the standard number 
format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format.
(5) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, four numbers out of the numbers from one to 
eighty (1 to 80) and a super number out of the numbers from one to twenty six (1 to 26) shall be drawn 
from two separate draw barrels which indicate each such number range. a letter from a barrel which 
contains letters from ‘a ’ to ‘Z’ of the english alphabet shall be drawn. Modern technology may be used 
for the lottery draw.
(6)  Prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-
(a)	 fifty	percent	(50%)of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	the	award	of	
prizes;
(b)	 twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	Agency	
Commission	(Commission	for	a	Dealer	1.25%	and	Commission	for	an	Agent	18.75%);
(c)	 ten	percent	(10%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	Consolidated	
Fund;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
7a
(d)	 twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	NLB’s	
‘Boards Fund’;
(e) where the four numbers, the super number and the english letter in a ticket agree with the four 
numbers, the super number and the english letter drawn, a sum of not less than one hundred 
and	fifty	million	rupees	(Rs.	150,000,000/-)	shall	be	awarded	to	that	ticket	as	the	Mega	Super	
Prize;
(f) where the four numbers and the english letter in a ticket agree with the four numbers and the 
english letter drawn, a sum of ten million rupees (rs. 10,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that 
ticket as the Power super Prize;
(g) where the four numbers and the super number in a ticket agree with the four numbers and the 
super number drawn, a sum of ten million rupees (rs. 10,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that 
ticket as the Grand super Prize;
(h) where the four numbers in a ticket agree with the four numbers drawn, each such ticket shall 
be awarded a sum of two million rupees (rs.2,000,000/-);
(i) where any three numbers and the english letter in one or more tickets agree with any three 
numbers and the english letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred 
thousand rupees (rs. 200,000/-);
(j) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each 
such	ticket	shall	be	awarded	a	sum	of	five	thousand	rupees	(Rs.	5,000/-);
(k) where any two numbers and the english letter in one or more tickets agree with any two 
numbers and the english letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two 
thousand rupees (rs. 2,000/-);
(l) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (rs. 200/-);
(m) where any number and the english letter in one or more tickets agree with any number and 
the english letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees            
(rs. 200/-);
(n) where any number in one or more tickets agrees with any number drawn, each such ticket 
shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-);
(o) where the english letter in one or more tickets agrees with the english letter drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-);
(p) where the super number in one or more tickets agrees with the super number drawn, each 
such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-);

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
8a
(q) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows – 
Prize Structure
Mega super 
Prize
english letter , super number and  4 
numbers correct rs.   150,000,000/-  
Power super 
Prize english letter and 4 numbers correct rs.     10,000,000/-  
Grand super 
Prize super number and 4 numbers correct rs.     10,000,000/-  
1    Prize 4 numbers correct rs.       2,000,000/-  each
2    Prize 3 numbers and  english letter correct rs.          200,000/-  each
3    Prize 3 numbers correct rs.              5,000/-  each
4    Prize 2 numbers and english letter correct rs.              2,000/-  each
5    Prize 2 numbers correct rs.                 200/-  each
6    Prize 1 number and english letter correct rs.                 200/-  each
7    Prize 1 number correct rs                     40/-  each
8    Prize english letter correct rs.                    40/-  each
9    Prize super number correct rs.                    40/- each
(r) the value of the Mega super prize of the Mega Power lottery will start at one hundred and 
fifty	million	rupees	(Rs.	150,000,000/-);
(s)	 if	the	existing	Mega	Super	prize	is	won	a	new	Super	prize	will	start	at	one	hundred	and	fifty	
million rupees (rs. 150,000,000/-) utilizing the Mega Power Prize reserve account;
(t)	 if	the	existing	Power	Super	prize	of	the	Mega	Power	lottery	is	won	a	new	fixed	Power	
super prize will start at ten million rupees (rs. 10,000,000/-) utilizing the Mega Power Prize 
reserve account;
(u)	 if	the	existing	Grand	Super	prize	of	the	Mega	Power	lottery	is	won	a	new	fixed	Grand	
super prize will start at ten million rupees (rs. 10,000,000/-) utilizing the Mega Power Prize 
reserve account;
(v)	 in	the	event	of	any	money	remaining	after	the	award	of	prizes	out	of	the	fifty	percent	(50%)	
of	ticket	sales	proceeds	allocated	for	the	award	of	prizes,	ninety	percent	(90%)	of	the	said	
balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be credited to the Mega Power Prize reserve account 
in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1a) of section 17 of the Finance act and the 
balance	ten	percent	(10%)	(surplus/remainder)	shall	be	added	to	the	next	Mega	Super	Prize.
(w) where in any Mega Power lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes are 
insufficient	to	award	the	total	number	of	prizes	won,	the	money	in	the	Mega	Power	Prize	
reserve account or any other Prize reserve account shall be utilized to meet the shortfall;
(x) the NlB shall be entitled to utilize the money in the Mega Power Prize reserve account for 
the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NlB  if it is deemed 
necessary; and
(y) the effective date of the above prize structure is 24th july 2023 and the draw number is 1533. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
9a
6. the NlB shall conduct the Lucky 7 - VIP national lottery referred to in rule 2(d) above (which was previously conducted 
under the name “jathika sampatha”) subject to the condition set out hereunder:-
(1) there shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.
(2) every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (rs.40/-)
   (3) each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize.
   (4) the numbering of tickets shall be from the number 000000 to number 999999. In every ticket six 
numbers within the range of zero to nine (0 to 9) shall be printed together with a letter from ‘a ’ to ‘Z’ 
of the english alphabet except the letter “I”. every printed ticket shall also contain a serial number in 
three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response 
code format.
(5) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, a letter from a barrel which contains letters from 
‘a ’ to ‘Z’ except the letter ‘I’ of the english alphabet shall be drawn. In addition, six numbers shall be 
drawn, one number each from six barrels containing the numbers from zero to nine (0 to 9). Modern 
technology may be used for the lottery draw.
(6) the prize shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-
(a)	 fifty	seven	percent	(57%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	the	
award of prizes;
(b)	 twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	Agency	
Commission	(Commission	for	a	Dealer	1.25%	and	Commission	for	an	Agent	18.75%);
(c)	 ten	percent	(10%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	relevant	
fund through the Consolidated Fund;
(d)	 thirteen	percent	(13%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	NLB’s	
‘Board’s Fund’;
(e) Where the english letter and the six numbers in a ticket agree with the english letter and six 
numbers drawn, the super prize of a minimum sum of twenty million rupees (rs.20,000,000/-) 
shall be awarded to that ticket;
(f) where the six numbers in a ticket agree with the six numbers drawn, consecutively from 
left	to	right	a	sum	of	two	million	five	hundred	thousand	rupees	(Rs.	2,500,000/-)	shall	be	
awarded to that ticket;
(g)	 where	the	last	five	numbers	in	one	or	more	tickets	agree	with	the	last	five	numbers	drawn,	
consecutively from left to right each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred and 
fifty	thousand	rupees	(Rs.	250,000/-);
(h) where the last four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last four numbers drawn, 
consecutively from left to right each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of twenty thousand 
rupees (rs. 20,000/-);
(i) where the last three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last three numbers drawn, 
consecutively from left to right each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand 
rupees (rs. 2,000/-);
(j) where the last two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last two numbers drawn, 
consecutively from left to right each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred 
rupees (rs. 200/-);

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
10a
(k) where the last number in one or more tickets agrees with the last number drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded forty rupees (rs.40/-);
(l)	 where	the	first	five	numbers	in	one	or	more	tickets	agree	with	the	first	five	numbers	drawn	
consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred 
thousand rupees (rs.100,000/-);
(m)	 where	the	first	four	numbers	in	one	or	more	tickets	agree	with	the	first	four	numbers	drawn	
consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of four thousand 
rupees (rs.4,000/-);
(n)	 where	the	first	three	numbers	in	one	or	more	tickets	agree	with	the	first	three	numbers	drawn	
consecutively	from	left	to	right,	each	such	ticket	shall	be	awarded	a	sum	of	five	hundred	
rupees (rs.500/-);
(o)	 where	the	first	two	numbers	in	one	or	more	tickets	agree	with	the	first	two	numbers	drawn	
consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred and 
twenty rupees (rs.120/-);
(p)	 where	the	first	number	in	one	or	more	tickets	agrees	with	the	first	number	drawn,	each	such	
ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs.40/-);
(q) where the english letter in one or more tickets agrees with the english letter drawn, each 
such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (40/-);
(r) where the six numbers in one or more tickets agree with the six numbers drawn, (in any 
order)	each	such	ticket		shall	be	awarded	a	sum	of	five	hundred	rupees	(Rs.500/-);
(s) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows – 
Prize structure
From right to left 
Prize english letter Winning numbers amount
super Prize english letter X X X X X X rs. 20,000,000/- 
1   prize X X X X X X rs.2,500,000/-   each
2   prize X X X X X rs.   250,000/-   each
3   prize X X X X rs.     20,000/-   each
4   prize X X X rs.       2,000/-   each
5   prize X X rs.          200/-   each
6   prize X rs.            40/-   each
From left to right 
7   prize X X X X X rs.   100,000/-   each
8   prize X X X X rs.       4,000/-   each
9   prize X X X rs.          500/-   each
10 prize X X rs.          120/-   each
11 prize X rs.            40/-   each
12 prize english letter rs.            40/-   each
13 prize Matching the 6 winning numbers in any order rs.          500/-   each

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
11 a
(t) the value of the super prize of the lucky 7 VIP lottery will start at twenty million rupees 
(rs.20,000,000/-);
(u) if the existing super prize is won a new super prize will start at twenty million rupees 
(rs.20,000,000/-) utilizing the lucky 7 VIP Prize reserve account;
(v)	 in	the	event	of	any	money	remaining	after	the	award	of	prizes	out	of	the	fifty	seven	percent	
(57%)	of	ticket	sales	proceeds	allocated	for	the	award	of	prizes,	ten	percent	(10%)	of	
the said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next super prize and the 
balance	ninety	percent	(90%)	shall	be	credited	to	the	Lucky	7	VIP	Prize	Reserve	Account	
in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1a) of section 17 of the Finance act;
(w) where in any lucky 7 VIP lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes are 
insufficient	to	award	the	total	number	of	prizes	won,	the	money	in	the	Lucky	7	VIP	Prize	
reserve account or any other Prize reserve account shall be utilised to meet the shortfall;
(x) the NlB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the lucky 7 VIP Prize reserve account 
for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NlB if it is 
deemed necessary; and
(y) the effective date of the above prize structure is 22
nd  November 2023 and the draw number 
is 132. 
7. the NlB shall conduct the NLB Handahana national lottery referred to in rule 2(e) above (which was previously 
conducted under the name “supiri Vasana”) subject to the conditions set out hereunder :-
(1) there shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.
(2) every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (rs. 40/-).
(3) each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize. 
(4) In every ticket a zodiac sign from twelve (12) zodiac signs and four numbers within the range of one 
to sixty two (1 to 62) shall be printed. every printed ticket shall also contain a serial number in three 
formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code 
format.
(5) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, four numbers from a barrel which contains the 
numbers from one to sixty two (1 to 62) and a zodiac sign from a barrel which contains twelve (12) 
zodiac signs shall be drawn. Modern technology may be used for the lottery draw.
(a)	 fifty	three	percent	(53%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	the	
award of prizes;
(b)	 twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	Agency	
Commission	(Commission	for	a	Dealer	1.25%	and	Commission	for	an	Agent	18.75%);
(c)	 ten	percent	(10%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	relevant	
fund through the Consolidated Fund;
(d)	 seventeen	percent	(17%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	
NlB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
12a
(e) Where the zodiac sign and the four numbers in a ticket agree with the zodiac sign and the four 
numbers drawn, the super prize of a minimum sum of three million rupees (rs.3,000,000/-) 
shall be awarded to that ticket;
(f) Where the four numbers in a ticket agree with the four numbers drawn, a sum of one million 
rupees (rs.1,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket;
(g) where the zodiac sign and any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with zodiac 
sign	and	any	three	numbers	drawn,	each	such	ticket	shall	be	awarded	a	sum	of	twenty	five	
thousand  rupees (rs. 25,000/-);
(h) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each 
such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand rupees (rs. 2,000/-);
(i) where the zodiac sign and any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the zodiac sign 
and	any	two	numbers	drawn,	each	such	ticket	shall	be	awarded	a	sum	of	five	hundred	rupees	
(rs. 500/-);
(j) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (rs. 200/-);
(k) where the zodiac sign and any number in one or more tickets agree with the zodiac sign 
and any number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred and twenty 
rupees (rs. 120/-);
(l) where any number in one or more tickets agrees with any number drawn, each such ticket 
shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-);
(m) where the zodiac sign in one or more tickets agrees with the zodiac sign drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-);
(n) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows – 
 
Prize structure
super Prize Zodiac sign and 4 numbers correct rs.    3,000,000./-  
1 Prize 4 numbers  correct rs.    1,000,000/-   each
2 Prize 3 numbers and the Zodiac sign correct rs.        25,000/-    each
3 Prize 3 numbers correct rs.         2,000/-     each
4 Prize 2  numbers and the Zodiac sign correct rs.            500/-     each
5 Prize 2 numbers correct rs.            200/-     each
6 Prize 1  number and the Zodiac sign correct rs.           120/-      each
7 Prize 1 number correct rs.            40/-       each
8 Prize Zodiac sign correct rs.            40/-       each
(o) the value of the super prize of the NlB handahana lottery will start at three million rupees 
(rs.3,000,000/-);
(p) if the existing super prize is won a new super prize will start at three million rupees 
(rs.3,000,000/-) utilising the NlB handahana Prize reserve account;
(q)	 in	the	event	of	any	money	remaining	after	the	award	of	prizes	out	of	the	fifty	three	percent	
(53%)	of	ticket	sales	proceeds	allocated	for	the	award	of	prizes,	ten	percent	(10%)	of	the	

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
13a
said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next super prize and the balance 
ninety	percent	(90%)	shall	be	credited	to	the	NLB	Handahana	Prize	Reserve	Account	in	
accordance with the provisions of subsection (1a) of section 17 of the Finance act;
(r) where in any handahana lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes are 
insufficient	to	award	the	total	number	of	prizes	won,	the	money	in	the	NLB	Handahana	Prize	
reserve account or any other prize reserve account shall be utilised to meet the shortfall.
(s) the NlB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the NlB handahana Prize reserve account 
for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NlB if it is deemed 
necessary; and 
(t) the effective date of the above prize structure is 3rd september 2023 and the draw number 
is 535. 
8. the NlB shall conduct the Dhana Nidhanaya national lottery referred to in rule 2(f) above subject to the conditions 
set out hereunder :-
(1) there shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.
(2) every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (rs. 40/-).
(3) each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize. Provided however if an additional letter drawn 
matches with the additional letter in any winning ticket such winning ticket shall in addition be 
awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-)
(4) In every ticket four numbers within the range of one to eighty two (1 to 82) shall be printed together 
with a letter from ‘a ’ to ‘Z’ of the english alphabet. every printed ticket shall also contain a serial 
number in three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick 
response code format.
(5) For the purpose of determining the winning ticket, four numbers from a barrel which contains numbers 
from one to eighty two (1 to 82) and a letter from a barrel which contains letters from ‘a ’ to ‘Z’ of the 
english alphabet shall be drawn. Modern technology may be used for the lottery draw.
(6)  Prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-
(a)	 forty	nine	percent	(49%)of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	the	
award of prizes;
(b)	 twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	Agency	
Commission	(Commission	for	a	Dealer	1.25%	and	Commission	for	an	Agent	18.75%);
(c)	 ten	percent	(10%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	Consolidated	
Fund;
(d)	 twenty	one	percent	(21%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	
NlB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;
(e) where the english letter and the four numbers in a ticket agree with the english letter and 
the four numbers drawn, such ticket shall be awarded the super prize of not less than eighty 
million rupees (rs. 80,000,000/-);
(f) where the four numbers in a ticket agree with the four numbers drawn, two million rupees 
(rs. 2,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket;

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
14a
(g) where the english letter and any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the english 
letter and any three numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred 
thousand rupees (rs. 200,000/-);
(h) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each 
such ticket shall be awarded a sum of six thousand rupees (rs.6,000/-);
(i) where the english letter and any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the english 
letter and any two numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand 
rupees (rs. 2,000/-);
(j) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (rs. 200/-);
(k) where the english letter and any number in one or more tickets agree with the english letter 
and any number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred and twenty 
rupees (rs. 120/-);
(l) where any number in one or more tickets agree with any number drawn, each such ticket 
shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-);
(m) where the english letter in one or more tickets agree with the english letter drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-);
(n) where the additional letter in one or more tickets agree with the letter drawn, each such 
ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (rs. 40/-);
(o) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows – 
Prize structure
super Prize english letter and 4 numbers correct rs. 80,000,000/-                   
1 Prize 4 numbers correct rs.   2,000,000/-    each
2 Prize english letter and 3 numbers correct rs.      200,000/-    each
3 Prize 3 numbers correct rs.         6,000/-     each
4 Prize english letter and 2 numbers correct rs.         2 ,000/-    each
5 Prize 2 numbers correct rs.            200/-     each
6 Prize english letter and 1 number correct rs.            120/-     each
7 Prize 1 numbers correct rs.              40/-     each
8 Prize english letter correct rs.              40/-     each
9 Prize additional letter rs.              40/-     each
(p) the value of the super prize of the dhana Nidhanaya lottery will start at eighty million 
rupees (rs. 80,000,000/-);
(q) if the existing super prize is won a new super prize will start at eighty million rupees  
(rs. 80,000,000/-) utilising the dhana Nidhanaya Prize reserve account;
(r) in the event of any money remaining after the award of prizes, out of the forty nine percent 
(49%)of	ticket	sales	proceeds	allocated	for	the	award	of	prizes,	twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	
said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next super prize and the balance 
eighty	percent	(80%)	shall	be	credited	to	the	Dhana	Nidhanaya	Prize	Reserve	Account	in	
accordance with the provisions of subsection (1a) of section 17 of the Finance act;

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
15a
(s) where in any dhana Nidhanaya lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes 
are	insufficient	to	award	the	total	number	of	prizes	won,	the	money	in	the	Dhana	Nidhanaya	
Prize reserve account or any other prize reserve account shall be utilised to meet the 
shortfall;
(t) the NlB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the dhana Nidhanaya Prize reserve account 
for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NlB if it is deemed 
necessary; and
(u) the effective date of the above prize structure is 6th july 2023 and the draw number is 1197. 
9.  the NlB shall conduct the NLB Mega Millions  national lottery referred to in rule 2(g) above subject to the 
conditions set out hereunder:-
(1) there shall be conducted draws decided by the NlB.
(2) every ticket shall be sold at the price of one thousand rupees (rs. 1,000/-).
(3) each ticket shall be eligible to win one or more prizes.
(4) three hundred thousand (300,000) tickets shall be presented 
(5)	 In	 every	ticket	Five	batch	numbers	shall	insert	and	those	five	batch	numbers	are	drawn	separately	for	
prizes;
(a) super Prize Winning Number
(b) One Million Winning Number 
(c) One lakh Winning Number 
(d) One thousand Winning Number
(e) Foreign t our Winning Number
(i) super prize winning number consists of six digits batch number.  First digit of the super prize 
winning number shall be presented within the range of number zero to number two (0 to 2). 
Out	of	other	five	digits	each	number	shall	be	presented	within	the	range	from	number	zero	to	
number nine (0-9).  (every presented ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats 
namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code 
format.)
(ii) One Million winning number consists of four digits batch number. First digit of the One 
Million winning number shall be presented within the range of number zero to number two  
(0 to 2). Out of other three digits each number shall be presented within the range from 
number zero to number nine (0 to 9).
(iii) One lakh winning number consists of four digits batch number. First digit of the One lakh 
winning number shall be presented within the range of number zero to number two (0 to 2). 
Out of other three digits each number shall be presented within the range from number zero 
to number nine (0 to 9).
(iv)  One thousand winning number consists of two digits batch number. First digit of the One 
thousand winning number shall be presented within the range of number zero to number two 
(0 to 2). Other digit shall be presented within the range from number zero to number nine (0 
to 9).
(v)  Foreign	 tour	winning	number	consists	of	five	digits	batch	number.	First	digit	of	the	Foreign	
tour winning number shall be presented within the range of number zero to number two (0 to 
2). Out of other four digits each number shall be presented within the range from number zero 
to number nine (0 to 9).

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
16a
(6) the prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-
a)	 fifty	eight	percent	(58%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	the	
award of prizes;
b)	 twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	Agency	
Commission	(Commission	for	a	Dealer	1.25%	and	Commission	for	an	Agent	18.75%);	
c)	 ten	percent	(10%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	relevant	
fund through Consolidated Fund;
d)	 twelve	 percent	(12%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	
NlB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;
e) where the six digits batch number in the super prize winning number in a ticket agree with 
the	six	digits	batch	number	drawn,	such	ticket	shall	be	awarded	the	Super	prize	of	fifty	
million rupees (rs. 50,000,000/-);
f) where consecutive four digits batch number in the One Million winning number in one or 
more tickets agree with consecutively four digits batch number drawn, each such ticket 
shall be awarded a sum of one million rupees (rs. 1,000,000/-);
g) where consecutive four digits batch number in the One hundred thousand winning number 
in one or more tickets agree with four digits batch number drawn, each such ticket shall be 
awarded a sum of  one hundred thousand rupees (rs. 100,000/-);
h) where consecutive two digits batch number in the One thousand winning number in one or 
more tickets agree with two digits batch number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a 
sum of  one thousand rupees (rs. 1,000/-);
i)	 where	 consecutive	five	digits	batch	number	in	the	Foreign	tour	winning	number	in	one	or	
more	tickets	agree	with	five	digits	batch	number	drawn,	each	such	ticket	shall	be	offered	a	
foreign tour;
j) every presented ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely the 
standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format
k) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows – 
Prize structure
super Prize 6 digits batch number correct in 
super prize winning number
rs.         50,000,000/-
Millionaire 
prize
4 digits batch  correct in 
Millionaire winning number
rs.           1,000,000/- each
One lakh 
prize 
4 digits batch  correct in One 
hundred thousand winning 
number
rs.              100,000/- each
One lakh 
prize
4 digits batch correct in One 
thousand winning number
rs.                  1,000/- each
Foreign 
tour prize
5 digits batch correct in Foreign 
tour winning number
Foreign t our
(this will be decided by National 
lotteries Board within the 
maximum limit of rs. 400,000/-)

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
17a
l)	 if	the	existing	Super	prize	is	won	a	new	Super	prize	will	be	offered	fifty	million	rupees	(Rs.	
50,000,000/-) utilising the NlB Mega Millions Prize reserve account or any other Prize 
reserve account;
m)	 in	the	event	of	actual	award	of	prizes	is	less	than	the	prize	allocation	of	fifty	eight	percent	
(58%)	of	gross	revenue,	one	hundred	percent	(100%)	of	the	surplus/remainder	shall	be	
added to the NlB Mega Millions Prize reserve account in accordance with the provisions 
of subsection (1a) of section 17 of the Finance act;
n) where in any NlB Mega Millions lottery draw, the money allocated for the payment of 
prizes	are	insufficient	to	award	the	total	number	of	prizes	won,	the	money	in	the	“NLB	
Mega Millions” Prize reserve account or any other Prize reserve account shall be utilised 
to meet the shortfall;
o) the NlB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the NlB Mega Millions Prize reserve 
account for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NlB if it 
is deemed necessary; and
p) the effective date of the above prize structure is 30th december  2023 and the draw number 
is 01. 
10. the NlB shall conduct the Sevana scratch national lottery referred to in rule 2(h) above, subject to the conditions set 
out hereunder:-
(1) the internationally recognized scratch and match technology shall be adopted to identify the prizes 
won. Promotional prizes determined by the NlB may be awarded through a special draw held in that 
behalf.
(2) there shall be two categories of tickets which shall be sold at the prices of forty rupees (rs. 40/-) 
and	fifty	rupees	(Rs.	50/-)	each.	The	NLB	shall	present	such	number	of	tickets	in	each	category	as	
determined by the NlB for sale.
(3) the number of printed tickets which are contained in a pack of tickets shall be determined by the 
NlB.
(4)	 Forty	 nine	percent	(49%)	to	fifty	three	percent	(53%)	out	of	the	proceeds	fromthe	sale	of	tickets	shall	
be allocated for the award of prizes. the prizes shall be determined by the NlB within the range of 
forty	nine	percent	(49%)	to	fifty	three	percent	(53%)	of	the	proceeds	of	the	individual	game.
(5)	 twenty	 percent	(20%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	Agency	Commission	
(Commission	for	a	Dealer	1.25%	and	Commission	for	an	Agent	18.75%);	
(6)	 ten	 percent	(10%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	relevant	fund	through	
the Consolidated Fund;
(7)	 seventeen	 percent	(17%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	NLB’s	
‘Board’s Fund’;
(8)	 The	 ticket	shall	be	printed	in	such	manner	that	the	instant	prize	cannot	be	identified	by	the	holder	of	
the ticket until the coat covering the scratching panel on the ticket has been removed.
(9) every ticket shall clearly state the manner of determining whether a holder of a ticket has won a prize 
and the procedure for claiming such prizes.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
18a
11.  the NlB shall conduct the Samurdhi scratch national lottery referred to in rule 2(i) subject to the conditions set 
out hereunder:-
(1) the internationally recognized scratch and match technology shall be adopted to identify the prizes won. 
Promotional prizes determined by the NlB may be awarded through a special draw held in that behalf.
(2)	 There	shall	be	two	categories	of	tickets	which	shall	be	sold	at	the	prices	of	forty	rupees	(Rs.	40/-)	and	fifty	
rupees (rs. 50/-) each. the NlB shall present such number of tickets in each category as determined by 
the NlB. all tickets printed shall be offered for sale.
(3) the number of printed tickets which are contained in a pack of tickets shall be determined by the NlB.
(4)	 Forty	nine	percent	(49%)	to	fifty	three	percent	(53%)	out	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	
allocated for the award of prizes. the prizes shall be determined by the NlB within the range of forty 
nine	percent	(49%)	to	fifty	three	percent	(53%)	of	the	proceeds	of	the	individual game.
(5)	 twenty	percent	(20%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	for	Agency	Commission	
(Commission	for	a	Dealer	1.25%	and	Commission	for	an	Agent	18.75%);	
(6)	 ten	percent	(10%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	Consolidated	Fund;
(7)	 seventeen	percent	(17%)	of	the	proceeds	from	the	sale	of	tickets	shall	be	allocated	to	the	NLB’s	‘Board’s	
Fund’;
(8)	 Every	ticket	shall	be	printed	in	such	manner	that	the	instant	prize	cannot	be	identified	by	the	holder	of	a	
ticket until the latex coat covering the panel or panels of each ticket has been removed. every ticket shall 
clearly state the manner of determining whether a holder of a ticket has won a prize and the procedure for 
claiming such prizes.
12.  Notwithstanding the preceding rules, the following provisions shall apply in general in respect of any national 
lottery:-
(1)	 Where	a	specific	method	for	determining	the	winning	tickets	has	not	been	introduced	by	these	rules,	the	
draw of any national lottery shall be conducted by utilising one or more barrels or a draw machine or 
using modern technological methods.
(2) (a) the following particulars shall be stated in every ticket of any national lottery which does not offer 
instant prizes:-
i) the name of the lottery;
ii) the price of each ticket;
iii) the number of the draw
iv) the date of the draw;
v) the manner of identifying the prize won and the value of the prize; 
vi) the Qr Code; and
vii) that the lottery is conducted by the NlB subject to the provisions of the Finance act No. 
11 of 1963 as amended.
(b) the lottery draw shall be conducted in a studio or at a venue decided by the NlB.
(c) if the NlB is unable to conduct the particular lottery draw on the date mentioned in the lottery 
ticket due to exceptional or unavoidable circumstances the NlB shall inform the public the new 
date of the particular lottery draw.
(3)  the following particulars shall be stated in every ticket of a national lottery which offers instant prizes:-
i) the name of the lottery;
ii)  the price of each ticket;

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
19a
iii)  the manner of determining whether the ticket has won a prize and the manner of applying 
for the prize; 
iv) the Qr Code; and
v) that the lottery is conducted by the NlB subject to the provisions of the Finance act No. 
11 of 1963 as amended. 
(4) The	NLB	shall	publish	Passive	lottery	results	in	Sinhala,	Tamil	and	English	languages	in	the	official	
website of the NlB and other media comprising the winning number or numbers of the national 
lotteries, the value of the prizes thereof and such other information as the NlB deems necessary. the 
NlB reserves the right to publish the names and addresses of the winners. 
(5)	 Tickets	 that	are	torn	or	disfigured	shall	not	qualify	to	be	presented	to	obtain	a	prize	in	a	lottery.	However	
a holder of such a ticket can, by paying the relevant expenses to the NlB, cause such ticket to be 
certified	as	genuine	by	an	examiner	of	questioned	documents	or	any	other	competent	person	and	then	
present the same for the award of the prize.
(6) all tickets printed and all tickets offered for the digital sale in respect of each lottery shall be presented 
for sale. the tickets shall be sold only at the prices stated in the ticket. Prior to each draw, all tickets 
printed, all tickets used for digital sale and tickets not sold at that particular draw shall be documented 
and	certified	by	the	auditors	for	cancellation.	
(7) If there is a printing error found in a lottery ticket the customer who has purchased the said ticket is 
entitled for a fresh ticket to the value mentioned in the said ticket.
(8) the NlB may from time to time award additional prizes as customer promotion prizes for the serial 
number or any other number or english letter or symbols appearing on the tickets of any national 
lottery by a normal or special draw conducted in that behalf with a view of increasing the sale of tickets 
of such national lottery.
(9) the draw shall be conducted in the presence of a supervisory Board comprising a representative from 
the	National	Audit	Office,	a	member	from	the	Board	of	Directors	of	the	NLB	or	an	official	of	the	
Middle	Manager	category	or	Higher	Manager	category	of	the	NLB	and	a	Police	Officer	holding	a	post	
not	below	the	rank	of	a	Senior	Superintendent	of	Police.	A	senior	executive	officer	from	a	Ministry	or	
department or state Owned enterprises presents on the decision of the NlB (hereinafter referred to as 
“the supervisory Board”).
(10) the Chairman of the NlB or the member of the supervisory Board who represents the NlB shall 
determine the time at which the winning number or letter or symbol should be drawn according to the 
operation of the equipment used in the draw. When such determination is made, the winning number 
or letter or symbol selected shall be deemed to be the legally drawn number or letter or symbol.
(11) the computer system used to conduct lottery draws using digital technology shall be examined by the 
member	of	the	Supervisory	Board	represented	by	the	National	Audit	Office.	
 
(12) the items on which numbers or letters  or symbol are marked for the purpose of the draw shall be 
placed in a secure box after the draw and the said box shall be locked and sealed with a security sticker 
in	the	presence	of	the	member	of	the	Supervisory	Board	represented	by	the	National	Audit	Office	and	
executive	officer	of	NLB.		The	said	box	containing	the	said	items	shall	be	opened	in	the	presence	of	
the	member	of	the	Supervisory	Board	represented	by	the	National	Audit	Office	and	executive	officer	
of	NLB.	The	keys	to	the	said	box	shall	be	kept	in	the	custody	of	a	Senior	Executive	officer	of	the	NLB	
nominated by the Chairman of the NlB.
(13)   there shall be an arrangement for the safe custody of the recording of the draw, until the same is 
transmitted over the television or any other digital media. the Chairman of the NlB shall decide on 
the practical arrangements to be adopted for the lottery draw programmes. the payments to be made to 
the relevant persons who perform duties in the lottery draw programmes shall be decided by the NlB. 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
20a
(14)    all draw balls with numbers, letters and symbols used for a national lottery draw shall be duly examined 
by a recognised standards institution in order to ascertain whether all such material possesses the 
uniformity reasonably necessary for their durability.
(15) Persons below the age of eighteen years shall not be eligible to purchase national lotteries and the NlB 
shall not make any payment or prizes as winning prizes if a claim from any such person is received .
(16)   Any	person	having	a	winning	ticket	duly	filled	the	particulars	requested	by	the	NLB	on	the	reverse	of	
the ticket, shall be entitled to receive a prize according to the relevant prize structure. Prizes shall be 
valid for a period of six (6) months from the date of the draw. unclaimed prizes after the said validity 
period shall be forfeited.
 (i)  after the expiration of a period of six months reckoned from the date of conclusion of the 
prescribed lottery draw, any winning cash prizes of a national lottery which has not been granted 
to the person entitled thereto by reason of the fact that such person is not to be found shall be 
forfeited, and paid to the Consolidated Fund.
(ii) after the expiration of a period of six months reckoned from the date of conclusion of the 
prescribed lottery draw, any winning non cash prize of a National lottery which has not been 
granted to the person entitled thereto by reason of the fact that such person is not to be found shall 
be forfeited and added to the NlB’s stock of non cash prizes.
 (iii) after the expiration of a period of six months reckoned from the date of conclusion of the 
prescribed lottery draw, any winning customer promotional cash / non cash prize of a national 
lottery which has not been granted to the person entitled thereto by reason of the fact that such 
person is not to be found shall be forfeited and paid back to the Prize reserve account / stock of 
non cash prizes of the Board.
(17)   (i) the NlB may have the sole right to discontinue an existing lottery. If the super prize of the 
existing lottery has not been won, it shall be transferred back to the Prize reserve account of the 
Board.
(ii)   the NlB may have the sole right to relaunch an existing lottery. If the super prize of the existing 
lottery has not been won, the new super prize of the relaunched lottery may start with the same 
super prize or the super prize may be topped up using Prize reserve account or existing super 
prize may be transferred back to Prize reserve account and offer a new super prize using Prize 
reserve account.
13.  the following rules shall apply for the sale of national lottery tickets :-
(1) the NlB may also use the short Message service (sMs) and Interactive voice recognition (IVr), 
mobile applications, web, and electronic devices (hereinafter referred to as the “digital means”) for 
the purpose of selling national lottery tickets, in addition to the sales generated using printed lottery 
tickets.
(2) the NlB may select digital dealers who offer digital platforms to sell lottery tickets and the said 
digital dealers shall enter into agreements with the NlB. 
(3) the NlB shall pay a commission to the said digital dealers for the service so obtained as determined 
by	the	NLB	and	specified	in	the	agreement	entered	under	rule	13(2).
(4) the digital dealer mentioned under rule 13(2) shall coordinate with the NlB, the mobile service 
providers, the mobile users and digital service providers. the digital dealer shall ensure an error free 
operation and shall be responsible for errors and omissions if any, in operation.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024
21a
(5) Prizes for the winners shall be awarded in accordance with the prevailing prize structures of the 
national lotteries.
(6) For the purpose of the sales of computerised draw lottery tickets through digital means a data range / 
data base as determined by the NlB shall be allocated to the digital dealer from each national lottery 
draw from the master data base of such lottery.
(7) the digital dealer shall pay to the NlB the proceeds of the tickets sold in the number range allocated 
to such digital dealer deducting the commissions entitled by such digital dealer and the digital 
dealer in accordance with the agreements.
(8) the digital dealers may award as approved by the NlB from time to time as a sales and marketing 
promotional strategy with the approval of NlB.
(9) Where there is a prize for a national lottery purchased through a digital platforms which the actual 
owner and the end user are two different persons, the prizes shall be paid to the person whose name 
and National Identity Card Number are registered with the digital dealer.
(10) Where there is a prize for a lottery purchased through a digital platform, the digital dealer transfers the 
same to the wallet or any other digital means of the registered customer. the minimum amount of the 
prizes transfers to the wallet or any other digital means of the registered customer shall be decided by 
the NlB. the digital dealer shall transfer the winning prizes to the Wallet of the registered customer 
based on the list of prizes and serial numbers in the date base of prizes submitted to the digital dealer 
by the NlB. 
(11) It is the responsibility of the digital dealer with whom the NlB has agreed to run this operation to 
coordinate with the digital platforms with regard to the payment of money to prize winners of lottery 
tickets generated through digital payment methods.
(12) the winners shall be liable to Government taxes imposed from time to time.
(13) Where there is an unforeseen operational problem such as failure in downloading, unexpected power 
failure or any other of such nature with regard to the number range allocated for the sales through 
digital means, the NlB reserves the right to cancel the said number range allocated for the sale through 
digital means for any particular lottery draw to enable the NlB to conduct the lottery draws scheduled 
for that day. however, all the purchasers who were affected by the said cancellation shall be allowed 
to purchase new tickets free of charge up to the total value of the purchases cancelled.
(14) the purchasers of national lotteries shall be subject to all the rules and conditions of the NlB and the 
digital dealer and the mobile operator.
14.  the National lotteries Board (No.2) rule, 2011, published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1795/37 of january 31, 
2013, is hereby rescinded without prejudice to anything duly done thereunder.
15. In these rules unless the context otherwise requires –
   “Finance act” means the Finance act, No. 11 of 1963 as amended;
“National lotteries Board” means the National lotteries Board established under the Finance act No.11of 
1963;
“National lottery” means a lottery conducted by the NlB under section 14(1) of the Finance act.    
`
eOG 06-0044
prInTed aT The deparTmenT OF GOVernmenT prInTInG,  SrI LanKa.