

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 785
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 782
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"963 – 2016 wfm%a,a ui 12 jeks w`.yrejdod – 2016'04'12
No. 1,963 –  TUESDAY ,  APRIL  12, 2016
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th May, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd  April, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
779
Note.– Sethsada Yoga Nikethanaye Karya Baraya (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 2016. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2016
780
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are rele ased for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2016
781
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should perso nally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2016
782
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths 
 
TRINCOMALEE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. 
Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
29th March, 2016.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Trincomalee Morawewa Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of District Secretary/Additional
   Morawewa North Division and Marriages  Registrar General, District  
    (Kandyan and General) of Kattukulam   Secretariat, Trincomalee. 
   Pattu West Division
04–636
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF PRIMARY GRADE 
MEDICAL OFFICER IN SRI LANKA AYURVEDA MEDICAL 
SERVICE - 2015
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified candidates for the 
post of primary Grade Medical Officer satisfying qualifications 
mentioned in this notification by 01.05.2015 vacancies 
existing in the said post under Medical Officer Category in 
the Department of Ayurveda by order of the Public Service 
Commission. Applications prepared as per the specimen given 
at the end of this notificati on should be sent, by registered post, 
to the Commissioner of Ayurveda, Department of Ayurveda, 
Old Kottawa Road, Nawinna, Maharagama on or before the date 
under mentioned. "Recruitment to the Post of Primary Grade 
Medical Officer of Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service" should be 
noted clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Further, 
the name of recruitment should be included also in English as well 
as in Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in English as well as in 
Tamil in Tamil applications. 
(a) Closing date for inviting applications is 13.05.2016. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2016
783
Note.– No complaint to the effect of loss or delay in delivery of 
any application related may be entertained. The applicants 
must themselves bear the losses caused by delaying 
submission of their applications up to the closing date. 
01. Methodology of recruitment.– Recruitments will be made 
based on existing vacancies to be filled by interviewing candidates 
who have satisfied all qualifications mentioned in paragraph 
5 in this notification by 01.05.2015 and have not received 
appointments in Public Service so far after the last recruitment. 
Those who belong to the batches in subsequent years, in order of 
the years in which they have got through their final examination 
of graduation and in merit order based on marks scored at such 
examination. 
02. Conditions of employment :
 (i) This is a permanent post. Y ou have to be subject to 
the policy decision to be taken by the government in 
future on the scheme of pension you are entitled to. 
 (ii) Officers appointed to this post will be subject to 
a probation period of three (03) years and once 
recruited to Primary Grade posts, promotions will be 
made in conformity with terms and conditions of the 
Minutes of the Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service. 
 (iii) As per the provisions of Public Administration 
Circular No. 01/2014 of 21.01.2014 and circulars 
incidental thereto, gaining official language 
proficiency should be proved in accordance with 
government policies prior to the passage of five years 
of the date of accepting this appointment. Further, 
if qualifications were fulfilled for this appointment 
in English langauge, proficiency of one out of the 
two languages of Sinhala and Tamil as the official 
language at his discretion should be received in 03 
years of t he date of appointment, i. e. , during the 
probation period and the proficiency of the other 
official language should be received in 5 years of the 
date of appointment. 
 (iv) He/she should be remain in service at the service 
station he/she assumed d uties under the first 
appointment up to the end of the probation period 
of three years and no transfers should be expected 
during this period. 
 (v) This appointment is subject to procedural rules of the 
Public Service Commission,  Establishments Code 
of the Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka, 
terms and conditions in the Minutes of the Sri Lanka 
Ayurveda Medical Service published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 924/2 of 20th May 1996 of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and other 
departmental regulations. 
03. Salary Scale.– This post is entitled to a monthly salary scale 
of Rs. 52,955 -3x1,335 -7x1,345 - 2x1,630 - 16x2,170 - Rs. 104,355 
(SL-2-2016). (Salaries will be paid based on the provisions in the 
Schedule II of Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 of 
25.02.2016).
04. Age limit. – Should not be above 45 years of age by 
01.05.2015.
05. Qualifications :
Educational/Professional Qualifications. – Should be a 
registered medical practitioner of the Ayurveda Medical Council 
following a degree received by completion of a period of one year 
internship training preceded by a five year course of study of 
Ayurveda/Siddha/Yunani in a recognized university. 
5.1  Physical Qualifications.– Every applicant should –
 (i) Be willing to serve in any area in Sri Lanka ; and 
 (ii) Possess physical and mental fitness sufficient to 
perform duties in the post. 
5.2  Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) Applicants should possess an excellent character,
 (iii) Should have fulfilled in every way the qualifications 
required for recruitment to the post by 01.05.2015.
06. Interview : 
General Interview.– Educational and other qualifications will 
be checked by a board of interview to be approved by the Public 
Service Commission. 
07. Identity of applicants.– Only applicants who have submitted 
applications perfectly completed will be called for the interview. 
Originals of all certificates and duly certified copies should be 
submitted at the interview. 
Applicants should be ready to forward at the interview one 
or all of the following documents on request of the Board of 
Interview :
 (i) Certificate of Birth,
 (ii) Degree Certificate, 
 (iii) Certificate of registration of the Ayurveda Medical 
Council,
 (iv) Grama Niladhari Certificate countersigned by the 
Divisional Secretary, 
 (v) National Identity Card. 
08. A specimen application is given at the end of this 
notfication. The application should be prepared in 22-29cm size 
A4 papers containing heads 01 to 09 on the first page and heads 
10 to 11 on the second page where the relevant particulars have to 
be inserted clearly in your own handwriting. Applications that do 
not conform to the specimen application and are incomplete will 
be rejected without any notice. It will be beneficial to keep a copy 
of the relevant application with you. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2016
784
09. Furnishing false information.– In case it is revealed before 
recruitment to the post that any of the particulars furnished in the 
application sent by you is false or inaccurate, your candidacy will 
be invalidated. 
If any such information is revealed false after recruitment, 
action will be taken to dismiss him/her from service subject to 
procedures pertaining to it. 
10. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to or not 
to fill the vacancies. 
By order of the Public Service Commission, 
 Anura Jayawickrema, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
 Indigenous Medicine.
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Mawatha, 
Colombo 10.
 For office use only
Post of Primary Grade Medical Officer of the Category 
of Medical Officer of the Department of Ayurveda of 
Sri Lanka Ayurveda Service
01. I(a) Last name with initials (in capital block letters) :––––––.
 ( b) Last name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
 II(a) Names denoted by initials (in capital block letters) :              
–––––––––––.
 ( b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––.
02. (i) Permanent address (in capital block letters) :–––––––––.
  (Letters will be sent to this address)
 (ii) Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
03. (i) Date of Birth :
   Year Month Date
 (ii) Age as at 01.05.2015 :
   Years Months Days
04. Gender :
   Female Male
   (Mark X in the relevant box)
05. Civil status : 
   Married Single
   (Mark X in the relevant box)
06. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
07. Nationality :–––––––––––.
08.  (i) Provincial Council :–––––––––––.
  (ii) District :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Divisional Secretariat Division of the permanent address 
:–––––––––––.
09. NIC No. : 
10. Educational Qualifications :
   Particulars of the Degree 
   (BAMS) (BUMS) (BSMS)
   (Mark X in the relevant box)
  1. University/Institution :–––––––––––.
  2. Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––.
  3. Class :–––––––––––.
  4. Medium in which the degree was completed :––––––––.
  5. Year of practical training :–––––––––––.
11. Particulars of registration in Ayurveda Medical Council : 
  1. Number :–––––––––––.
  2. Year :–––––––––––.
I hereby certify that particulars furnished in this application 
are true and correct. I am aware that I will be disqualified to 
this post and be subject to be dimissed from service without 
any compensation if any of the particulars herein was revealed 
to the Appointing Authority to be false or inaccurate after my 
recruitment to the post of Ayurveda Medical Officer. 
    ––––––––––––,
    Signature of the applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of applicant's signature :
I, certify that ........................ (full name) who is forwarding 
this application is personally known to me and he/she placed his 
signature before me on ............................
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature and official stamp of the officer
  certifying signature. 
Date :–––––––––––.
If the appicant is a public servant, the report of the Head of the 
Department :
I, certify that the above mnetioned particulars are true and 
his/her work and conduct are ............................ he/she can be 
released from this present post. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature and official stamp of the Head 
  of the Department. 
Date :–––––––––––.
 
04–772

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2016
785
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Plantation Industries
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
(DEPARTMENTAL) OF EXECUTIVE GRADE OF THE MINISTRY OF PLANTATION INDUSTRIES – 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited, on the direction of the Public Service Commission, from the officers with following qualifications to fill 
02 vacancies in the post of Assistant Director (Departmental) Grade III of the Executive Service Category of the Ministry. Applications 
prepared according to the format given at the end of this notice should be sent under the registered cover to the “Secretary Ministry 
of Plantation Industries, 11th Floor, Sethsiripaya Stage II, Battaramulla” on or before the date given below. The top left hand corner 
of the envelope should clearly carry the words  “Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the post of Assistant Director 
(Departmental) of Executive Grade of the Ministry of Plantation Industries – 2016” should be indicated  clearly on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope. Further, the name of the examination should be written in Sinhala applications in addition to Sinhala in English, 
and in Tamil applications in addition to Tamil in English. 
(a) The closing date of applications: - 13.05.2016.
Note.– No complaints shall be considered to the effect that an application or documents connected therewith were lost or delayed 
in the post. Any loss that may result by delaying the application to the last date will have to be borne by the applicant.
 
1. Method of Recruitment.– A written examination for the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications laid down in the notification 
will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations. Certificates of the applicants who scored higher marks at the written 
examination will be examined and the qualified applicants will be recruited by the Public Service Commission. 
2. Terms of appointment :
 ( i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
 (ii) The appointment is subject to a probation period of one (01) year and the appointees should pass the first Efficiency Bar 
Examination within three years (03) from the date of appointment.
 (iii) The official language proficiency should be obtained in terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014.
 (iv) The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, the conditions of the Service Minute, provisions of the 
Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Laws, Rules and Regulations imposed by the government from time to time, 
Scheme of Recruitment for the post of Assistant Director (Departmental) of Executive Grade of the Ministry of Plantation 
Industries and amendments made to the same are applicable to this post.
3. Salary Scale.– This post is entitled to the salary scale SL-1- 2006, Rs.22,935-10X645-8X790-17X1,050- Rs. 53,555 per month 
in terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006. 
4. Educational Qualifications. – A degree with a class in Agriculture, Plantation Management, Science, Management from a 
university or a degree awarding institute recognized by the University Grants Commission. 
5. Experience.– An officer with the knowledge in the field of plantation industry who have confirmed in the post  and completed  
continuous  and satisfactory service period of not less than   05 years  in the Associated Service Category or in the Development Officer 
Service.
6. Age limit.– Not applicable.
7. Physical Fitness.– All applicants must be physically and mentally fit to serve and perform the duties attached to the post in any 
part of the island.
8. Other Qualification:
 (i) Should have been confirmed in the post.
 (ii) Should have completed 05 years satisfactory service immediately preceding.
 (iii) Should have fulfilled in every respect the qualifications required to be recruited at the closing date of applications as given 
in this Gazette Notification. 
9.    9:1 Written Examination :
  09:1:1 This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations.  
 Subject No.  Subjects Duration Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
 01 National importance of plantation industry of Sri Lanka 03 hours 100 50 or above
 02 Management of Plantation Companies 03 hours 100 50 or above

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2016
786
  09.1.2 Syllabus : 
01. National importance of Plantation Industries  1.1   Role of the Plantation Sector in the National Economy
 of Sri Lanka
  1.2 Plantation Industry and impact on the Environment
  1.3 Impact on the forest reserve due to Plantation Industry
  1.4 Enhancement of Productivity in the Plantation Sector
  1.5 Issues encountered by Tea, Rubber and Coconut Small Holders
  1.6 Value addition process to fetch a higher price from plantation 
crops and related products
  1.7 Diversification of Plantation Crops
  1.8 Agricultural and management changes to be made to enhance the 
Productivity of the large scale states
  1.9 Importance of Plantation Management for Soil Conservation at 
National Level
  1.10 National importance of implementing environmental friendly 
Commercial Extractions
  1.11 Impact on the National Economy by utilizing plantation lands for 
other purposes.
02. Management of Plantation Companies 2.1 Legal background and Composition of the Land Reform 
    Commission 
  2.2 Role of Sri Lanka State Plantation Corporation and Janatha 
Estates Development Board
  2.3 Leasing out the lands of the Lands Reform Commission  to 
Plantation Companies
  2.4 Issues on lands vested with Land Reform Commission 
  2.5 Issues arisen in the formation of Plantation Companies
  2.6 Golden Shares and its powers
  2.7 Lease Indentures entered into with the Plantation Companies
  2.8 Administrative issues of Plantation Companies
  2.9 Allocation of lands to construct houses for Plantation workers  
  2.10 Cadastral Survey  in  plantation lands
  2.11 Eviction of encroachers in plantation lands / official quarters and 
releasing lands for public purposes
  2.12 Sub Lease of large scale plantation lands
  2.13 Main factors to be considered in monitoring Plantation 
Companies.
9.2  Interview :
 9.2.1 General interview : ( Marks will not be allocated).
 9.2.2 Objectives to be achieved : 
  Scrutinizing whether the required qualifications have 
been fulfilled as mentioned in the Public Notification 
in line with the Service Minute.
10. Terms of Examination :
 (i) The examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, 
Tamil and English medium. A candidate can appear 
for the examination in only one language of her/his 
choice. All question papers have to be answered in 
the same medium. Candidates will not be permitted 
to change the medium of examination in her/his 
application later.
 (ii) The examination fee, which is Rs.1,000 could be 
paid at any post office in the Island to the credit of 
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. A margin of the original 
receipt obtained in the candidate’s own name 
should be firmly pasted to the place specified in the 
application form. It would be advisable to retain a 
photocopy of this receipt. 
 (iii) The examination fees shall not be refunded or 
transferred to another examination for any reason 
and money order or stamps will not be accepted.
 (iv) This Examination will be held in the month of July 
2016 in Colombo. The date of the examination will 
be notified later. 
 (v) Incomplete applications will be rejected without 
notice.
Note:  On the assumption that only those who 
fulfilled necessary qualifications as per this 
Gazette Notification have applied for the 
examination, the applicants, shall receive an 
admission card from the Commissioner General 
of Examinations. 
Entering to the examination hall will not be 
permitted without an admission card. Only 
an admission card with the attested signature 
of the candidate should be presented to the 
supervisor of the examination hall on the first 
day examination.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2016
787
Issuing an admission card to a candidate for 
the examination should not be taken as an 
acknowledgement that the candidate has 
satisfied the qualifications required to sit for the 
examination.
 (vi) The application should be prepared on either side 
of A4 paper of the size 22-29 cm. Headings 01 
to 07 should be entered on the first page and the 
rest on the other page. The relevant particulars 
should be entered very clearly in candidate’s own 
handwriting. Applications, which do not conform 
to the specimen application given at the end of this 
Gazette Notification and incomplete applications 
will be rejected without any notice. It would be 
advisable to retain a copy of the application. Further, 
the candidate should satisfy herself / himself that 
the completed application conforms to the specimen 
application before submitting. All applicants should 
thoroughly learn that the applications do not conform 
to the given specimen will be rejected. 
 (vii) Notification will not be made about the receipt of 
the application and once the admission card issued 
for the examination to the candidates, a notification 
will be made on newspapers. If admission card 
is not received after 2 or 3 days from publishing 
notification, as per the instruction given in the 
Notification, should be informed in this regards to the 
Department of Examination of Sri Lanka. It would be 
most useful to fax a request letter to the Department 
of Examinations mentioning the detail on photo copy 
of the application, receipt of the registered post of the 
application, receipt sheet of payment made for the 
examination with your custody and a fax number for 
sending the admission card  if the candidates from 
outside Colombo. 
 (viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations has 
the power, with the approval of the Public Service 
Commission, to either postpone or cancel the 
examination. 
 (ix) Candidates would be subject to the rules and 
regulations enacted by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations in respect to the conduct of the 
examinations. If these rules are violated, candidates 
are bound to undergo any punishment imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
 (x) The identification of the candidate.–  All candidates 
should prove their identity to the satisfaction of 
the Head of the examination hall. Only one of 
the following documents will be accepted for this 
purpose :–
 (i) The National Identity Card issued by the 
Department for the   Registration of Persons ; 
 (ii) A valid Passport.
N.B.: - 
 ( a) No document or a copy thereof should be 
annexed to the application. 
 ( b)  The applications of candidates who fail to 
produce documents when requested to do so 
will not be considered.
 ( c)  All the candidates sh ould send their 
applications through their Head of the 
Departments. It is compulsory to attest all 
the candidates their signatures before the 
examination. 
 (xi) Examination Result.– Result sheets of the candidates 
who have obtained higher marks in the written test 
will be sent to the Secretary to the Public Service 
Commission. Sending result sheets to the candidates 
personally or publishing over www.results.exams.
gov.lk will be done by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations. 
11. Furnishing False Particulars.–  If any of the particulars 
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before the 
recruitment your candidature will be cancelled. In case such 
falsehood or error is detected after recruitment, action will be 
taken to discontinue your service.
12. The final decision on  any matter that does not include in 
this notice rests with the Public Service Commission. Further, 
Public Service Commission reserves the right to take final 
decision on either filling the vacancies or not filling the vacancies 
or filling part of the vacancies. 
13. In case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases of 
this notice, which is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
languages, the Sinhala notice will be considered as the correct 
one.
On the order of the Public Service Commission.
 Upali Marasinghe,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Plantation Industries.
15th of April, 2016. 
speciMen application
(For official use only)
liMited coMpetitive exaMination for recrUitMent to the post of 
assistant director (departMental) of execUtive grade of the 
Ministry of plantation indUstries - 2016
Medium of examination:
Sinhala - 2 Tamil- 3 English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 Name :
 1.1  Full Name (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
  ( Example : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN 
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 1.2  Name with last name at the beginning and initials of 
other names at the end :–––––––––––.
  (In  English  Block  Capitals) (Example : GUNAWARDHANA  
H.M.S.K.)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2016
788
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
 1.3  Name in Full :–––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0  Address to which the admissions should be sent :––––––––.
 (In English Block Capitals )
 2.1  Official Address: (In English Block Capitals) :––––––.
 2.2  Permanent address : (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
3.0 National Identity Card No.:
4.0  Sex (Male/Female) :
 Male - 0  Female - 1 
 (Write the relevant Number in the cage)
5.0  Marital Status (Married/Unmarried) :
 Married  - 1 
 Unmarried - 2  
 (Write the relevant Number in the cage)
6.0  6.1 Date of Birth :
 Year : Month : Date :
 
6.2 Age as at 13.05.2016 :
 Years : Months : Days :
7.0 Present Post : 
  7.1  The service to which the post belongs :––––––––––. 
(Eg.: Associated  Service Category, Development 
Officer Service)
  7.2  Date of first appointment :––––––––––. 
  7.3  Entire Service period in the post:––––––––––.
8.0  Have you earned salary increments for 05 years immediately 
preceding ? :––––––––––.
9.0  Present place of work :––––––––––.
10.0 Disciplines of the degree :  
  10.1  Class obtained :––––––––––.
  10.2  Year of the Graduation :––––––––––.
  10.3  University or the Institution conferred the degree  : 
––––––––––.
11. Details of the Receipt paid the examination fees:
  11.1  Post office where the payments have been made :            
––––––––––.
  11.2  Receipt No. and the Date :––––––––––.
  11.3  Amount paid :––––––––––.
Paste an edge of the receipt properly
I, do hereby certify that the particulars provided by me in this 
application form are true and correct. Further, I am fully aware 
that if any information provided herein is found to be false or 
incorrect prior to my selection for the post, I am liable to be 
disqualified and if it is found after the selection, I am liable to 
be dismissed from the service without paying any compensation. 
I also state th at I am liable to the rules and regulations imposed 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations pertaining to 
conducting the examination and the decisions made in respect of 
the issuance of the results and signed on ………………… before 
the head of the department.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
certification of head of departMent
I, do hereby certify that the information furnished by the 
applicant, Mr./ Mrs./Miss ……………………………………….. 
is true and correct, has paid the relevant examination fees, fixed 
the receipt alone with this application and signed before me and 
his signature is true.
I, recommend/not recommend the application of Mr./Mrs./
Miss………………………… as she/he has obtained/not obtained 
qualifications to sit for the examination. He/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service, if selected for this post.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––.
04–727