

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of May 25, 2018
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 25.05.2018)
APARTMENT OWNERSHIP (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
BILL
to facilitate the registration and disposition of certain Condominium
Properties owned by the State or by a State agency; and to make provision
 for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto
Ordered to be published by the Minister of Housing and Construction
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 12.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2d
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
A

<!-- page 2 -->

Apartment Ownership (Special Provisions) 1
5
10
15
20
L.D.—O. 50/2013
AN ACT TO FACILITATE THE REGISTRATION AND DISPOSITION OF CERTAIN
CONDOMINIUM PROPERTIES OWNED BY THE STATE OR BY A STATE AGENCY;
AND TO MAKE PROVISION FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Apartment Ownership
(Special Provisions) Act, No.     of 2018.
2. The provisions of this Act shall be in operation for a
period of five years from the date of commencement of this
Act.
3. (1) The Registrar shall register under section 6 of the
Apartment Ownership Law, No 11 of 1973, the plans of all
such Condominium Properties as are owned by-
(a) the Commissioner for National Housing;
(b) the National Housing Development Authority;
(c) the Urban Development Authority;
(d) the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development
Corporation; or
(e) the State or any other agency by which a
Condominium Property has been constructed on
State owned land under the Tsunami Resettlement
Programme of the Government,
and which were constructed prior to December 31, 2009 and
the possession of which has been handed over to any person
or persons by way of sale, lease, rent or rent purchase,
notwithstanding-
(i) the non-availability of the building plans approved
by the local authority;
Short  title.
Duration of
the Act.
Registration
of certain
Condominium
Properties.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Apartment Ownership (Special Provisions)
5
10
15
20
(ii) the non-availability of the Certificate of
Conformity issued by the local authority;
(iii) not having an assessment number or other symbol
for each condominium parcel;
(iv) such Condominium Properties not being in
conformity with building plans approved by the
local authority;
(v) the Condominium Property has not been
constructed according to prevailing laws; or
(vi) that a certificate has not been issued by the General
Manager of the Condominium Management
Authority.
(2) Any registration made under subsection (1) shall be
deemed for all purposes to have been registered under the
provisions of this Act.
(3) The owner of a Condominium Property referred to
in subsection (1) shall submit to the Registrar at the time of
registration, a written declaration obtained from the Director-
General of the Department of Buildings certifying the safety
of occupation of the Condominium Property.
(4) A certificate issued under the hand of the
Commissioner for National Housing, General Manager of
the National Housing Development Authority, Chairman of
the Urban Development Authority, Chairman of the Sri
Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation or
the Minister assigned the subject of Lands and Land
Development or the head of such other State agency
responsible for constructing such Condominium Property
on State land under the Tsunami Resettlement Programme
of the Government, to the effect that a particular
Condominium Property is owned by the institutions
25
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Apartment Ownership (Special Provisions) 3
5
10
15
20
specified in pragraphs (a) to (e) (both inclusive) of subsection
(1), as the case may be, and was constructed prior to December
31, 2009, and that the possession of such Property has been
handed over to any person by way of sale, lease, rent or rent
purchase shall be prima facie  proof of the facts contained
therein.
4. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Commissioner for National Housing” means the
Commissioner of National Housing
appointed under the National Housing Act
(Chapter 401);
“Condominium Management Authority” or
“Authority” means the Condominium
Management Authority established under the
Condominium Management Authority Law,
No. 10 of 1973;
“Condominium Property” means the Condominium
Property within the meaning of the Apartment
Ownership Law, No. 11 of 1973;
“Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject of
Housing under Article 43 of the Constitution;
“National Housing Development Authority” means
the National Housing Development
Authority established under the National
Housing Development Authority Act, No. 17
of 1979;
“Registrar” means the Registrar of Lands appointed
under the Registration of Documents
Ordinance (Chapter 117) having jurisdiction
over the registration district in which the
Condominium Property to be registered is
situated;
25
Interpretation.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Apartment Ownership (Special Provisions)
“Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development
Corporation” means the Sri Lanka Land
Reclamation and Development  Corporation
established under the Land Reclamation and
Development  Corporation Act, No. 15 of
1968;
“Urban Development Authority” means the Urban
Development Authority established under the
Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41
of 1978.
5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
5
10
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

Apartment Ownership (Special Provisions) 5
Department of Government Printing