

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1819$30 - 2013 cQ,s ui 18 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'07'18
No. 1819/30  - THURSDAY ,  JULY 18,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT,  No.  14  OF  2008
Notification under Section 3(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section  3 (2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act No. 14 of 2008 as
amended, I, Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, Minister of Investment Promotion,do by this Notification -
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the Project for the development,
construction equipping, commissioning, owning, managing, operating, selling, leasing and renting a luxury multi/mixed use
"ICONIC" Integrated Resort consisting of multiple business including a luxury hotel, convention centre, entertainment and
gaming facilities, international standards shopping mall, luxury condominiums, serviced apartments and office space ("the
Integrated Resort") in two phases with an envisaged minimum investment of United States Dollars Six Hundred and Fifty
Million (US$ 650 Mn.) in Phase 1 and anticipated employment generation of Three Thousand (3,000), at capacity, on the
leasehold and freehold land situated at Glennie Street and Justice Akbar Mawatha, Colombo 02. This project is of national
interest as it will bring significant economic and social benefits to the country through substantial employment generation,
the signficant foreign exchange in flows skill upgrading through technology transfer and the strategic importance of the
development of Colombo City and it will also change the landscape of the country. The Project Company is Waterfront
Properties (Private) Limited ("Project Company") ;
(2) Declare that the date of commencement of the Project will be as stated in the Project Agreement between the
Board of Investment and the Project Company ('Project Agreement'). The implementation and commencement of Commercial
Operations of the Phase 1 of the Integrated Resort shall be within Sixty (60)  months from the date stated in the said  Project
Agreement ;
The implementation and commencement of Commercial operations of the Phase II of the Integrated Resort, if
undertaken, shall be within a further Thirty Six (36) months as stated in the said Project Agreement, with an additional United
States Dollars Hundred Million (US$ 100 Mn.) investment ;
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act No. 14
of 2008 as amended, the exemptions set out in the Schedule to this Notification shall apply to the  Integrated Resort being
developed by the Project Company.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2013
2A
SCHEDULE
1.  The Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006
(i) Corporate Income Tax
The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax on the
Project Company on the profit and income generated from the non-gaming activities from the Integrated
Resort shall not apply for a period of Ten (10) years ("Tax Exemption Period").
The said Tax Exemption Period to commence from the  first year in which the Project Company makes taxable
profit or Three (03) years after commencement of commercial operations, whichever falls first.
After the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period referred to above, the profits and income of the
Project Company shall be charged at the rate of the lower of six per centum (6%) or fifty per centum (50%) of
the prevailing tax rate for the hotel industry, for a period of Fifiteen  (15) years immediately succeeding the
last date of the Tax Exemption Period. ("Tax Concessionary Period").
Provided that after the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period and Tax Concessionary Period
referred to above, income tax in respect of the profits and income of the Project Company shall be payable in
terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.
For the above purpose rental received by the Project Company as landlord whether fixed and/or variable
(where applicable based on the activity level of the business of the tenant) of all tenants including and not
limited to the rents received from the operators of the gaming activities shall be considered as nongaming
activity.
In the event the Project Company engages in the business of gaming, the profits from this activity shall be
liable for corporate tax at the applicable rate.
(ii) Tax on Dividends
Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit shall be exempted from the income tax
during the said  Tax Exemption Period and One year thereafter.
(iii) Withholding Tax
The Project Company shall be exempted from the deduction and payment of Withholding Tax on interest
paid on foreign loans  and debt obtained for capital expenditure and on technical fees.
The Project Company shall  be exempted from the deduction and payment of Withholding Tax on management
fees, royalty payments and marketing fees provided the fees with repsect to each such category the following
thresholds shall apply : (1) basic management fees/royalties are no more than three per centum (3%) of gross
operating revenues (2) marketing fees are no more than one point five per centum (1.5%) of gross operating
revenue and (3) incentive managment fees are no more than ten per centum (10%) of gross operating profits.
(iv) PAYE Tax
The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall  be exempted from the charge and payment of Pay As You
Earn Tax (PAYE) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number of
Twenty (20)  employees. This concession shall be applicable for a period of Five (05) years from the date of
commencement of  commercial operations. The Project Company shall be required to gradually replace
expatriate staff with local employees on  best-effort basis.
2.  Value Added Tax (V AT) Act No. 14 of 2002
The importation of project related goods and services and the local purchases of project related goods and
services as approved by the Project Company during the Project Implementation Period of Sixty (60) months shall
be exempted from charge and payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) under Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 as

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2013
3A
SCHEDULE (Contd.)
amended. The V AT exemption shall be applicable not only for direct supplies to the Project Company/Integrated
Resort but also for supplies made to a contractor or by a sub-contractor to a contractor.
The same concessions shall be applicable during the Implementation Period of a further Thirty Six (36) months for
Phase 2.
The Project Company shall be liable for the payment of V AT on value of supply as defined in the V AT Act No. 14
of 2002 on the commencement of commercial operations notwithstanding the fact that during the Project
Implementation Period and the implementation period of Phase 2, the Project Company/Integrated Resort will
continue to enjoy the consessions available for the project related goods and services.
3. Port and Airport Development Levy (PAL) Act, No. 18 of 2011
The  payment and charge of Port and Aviation Levy (PAL) shall be fully exempted on all items imported for
implementing the Integrated Resort (whether directly imported by the Project Company or sourced through
contractors or subcontractors) during the Project Implementation Period.
The Project Comany, its contractors and subcontractors shall also be entitled to the same concessions during the
implementation period of a further Thrity Six (36) months for Phase 2.
4. The Finance Act, No. 05 of 2005
Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005 as amended shall be exempted for the payment of Construction Industry Guarantee
Fund Levy to the contractor/s and subcontractors of the Project Company.
Contractors and subcontractors of the Project Company shll also be entitled to the same concessions during the
implementation period of a further Thrity Six (36) months for Phase 2.
6. Customs Duty on Importation of Project Related Items [Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)]
All imports of project related items in capital nature and any other proejct related items required for the Integrated
Resort, in the name of the Project Company or by the contractors and the sub-contractors approved by the Project
Company other thaan the items mentioned in the negative list shall be exempted from the customs duty as
approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka solely for the purpose of the Integrated Resort during the
Project Implementation Period. However items in the Negative List shall be considred if quantity and quality of
such good are not available in the local market or are unavailable in sufficient quality, quantity and timelines for the
completion of the Integrated Resort. Provided that this exemption shall not apply to any personal effects imported
by the Project Company,  for the private and personal use of any person in the Project Company, and provided that
the Board reserves to itself the right to cause or permit to be caused the examination of any imports for purposes
connected with this Agreement.
The same concessions shall be applicable during the implementation period of a further Thirty Six (36) months for
Phase 2.
L
AKSHMAN YAPA ABEYWARDENA, MP
Minister of Investment Promotions.
Colombo.
15th July, 2013.
08 - 151
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.