

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1984$6 - 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 13 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2016'09'13
No.1984/6 -  TUESDAY  SEPTEMBER  13,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A
This Statute shall be inconsistent as applicable with the Animal Act, No. 29 of 1958 as amended
by the Act, No. 10 of 1968, the Act, No. 46 of 1988 and the Act, No. 10 of 2009; the Animal Feed Act,
No. 10 of 1986; the Butchers Ordinance No. 9 of 1893; the Animal Diseases Act, No 59 of 1992; the
Epidemic Act, No. 33 of 1952; Anti Rabies Act, No. 23 of 1956; Veterinary Surgeons and Practitioners
Act, No. 16 of 1998; Butches Act, of 1968; and the Meat Inspection Act, of 2004.
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of North Western Province of the Democratic Social-
ist Republic of  Sri Lanka as follows :
01. This Statute may be cited as the Livestock Statute No.  ……. of  2016 of the Provincial
Council of the North Western Province.
02. This Statute shall come into operation on such date as may be appointed by the Governor of
the North Western Province.
03. Objectives of the Statute:
(1) To provide for the planning, formulation, implementation, operation and regulation of
policies relating to livestock in compliance with the national policies and needs of the
province;
(2) To provide for the preservation, regulation, caring, improving of livestock and production
and use of animal feed and medicines and prevention of animal diseases;
(3) To establish the North Western Provincial Department of Animal Productions and Health;
(4) To establish the North Western Provincial Livestock Development Committee;
Livestock  Statute  No. …………….. 0f  2016 of  the  Provincial  Council  of  the North
Western  Province
A statute to provide for the implementation of Provincial Livestock Policies towards a Sustainable
Development in the North Western Province; for the realization of objectives; for the formulation,
implementation and operation of plans with regard to the preservation, taking care and development of
livestock and for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto and to provide for the repeal of
North Western Provincial Animal Husbandry Statute No.04 of 1998.
Short title
Date of operation
Objectives of the
Statute
NORTH   WESTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Long  title

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
2A
(5) To empower famers engaged in the livestock sector in the North Western Province;
(6) To establish Zonal and Regional Livestock Development Committees and Rural Livestock
Development Societies of those engaged in the livestock sector in the North Western
Province;
(7) To ensure the maintenance of environment friendly farms of prescribed standard and
healthy and qualitative animal production in the province;
(8) To establish and maintain the North Western Provincial Diary Promotion Fund.
PART  I
Policy Planning, Management and Regulation
04. The Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject shall be vested with the policy planning on
animal production and development in the North Western Province in compliance with the
national policy and needs of the province for which purpose, proposals from the Rural, Regional,
Zonal and Provincial Livestock Committees established within the province may be sought.
05. The Provincial Director shall prepare a five year Provincial Livestock Development Plan
giving due consideration to the proposals referred to at Section 04 above and submit same for
the approval of the Provincial Livestock Development Committee once in every five years.
06. The Provincial Ministry and the Department in charge of the subject shall provide livestock
and health, breeding, extension, training, marketing, promotion and provincial research services
needed by those engaged in livestock sector within the province.
07. The Animal Development Advisory Divisions, Regional Veterinary Medical Officer’s Divisions
and Zones shall be demarcated on the basis of the National policy and extension of the
population, extent of land, animal population, climatic conditions and administrative boundaries
in the province.
08. Research Institutions may be established and maintained for the needs of the province.
09. Human resources development Divisions or Units may be established for the purpose of
empowering stakeholders with a view to promoting livestock development.
PART  II
Establishment, composition, powers and functions of the Provincial Department of Animal
Production and Health
10. There shall be established a Department which shall be called “North Western Provincial
Department of Animal Production and Health” (herein after referred to as the “Department”)
to implement the provisions and to achieve objectives of this Statute.
Policy Planning on
Animal Production
and Health
Provincial
Livestock
Development Plan
Provision of
services
Demarcation of
Animal
Development
Advisory
Divisions,
Regional
Veterinary
Medical Officer’s
Divisions and
Zones
Research
Institutions to be
established and
maintained
Human resources
development
Units to be
established
Establishment of
the Department

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
11. The North Western Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health shall, by the
name assigned to it be a body corporate and shall have a perpetual succession and a common
seal and may carry out all functions related to the livestock sector and sue and be sued in such
name.
12. The Governor of the North Western Province shall with the concurrence of the Provincial
Minister in-charge of the subject, appoint a Class I Veterinary Medical Officer of the Animal
Production and Health Service to the post of North Western Provincial Director of Animal
Production and Health (hereinafter referred to as the “Director”) to exercise the powers vested
in the Department.
13. For the purpose of execution of the duties and functions of the Department there may be
appointed Additional Provincial Directors, Subject Specialists, Deputy Directors, Veterinary
Medical officers, Animal Husbandry Officers, Animal Development Instructors, and other
ancillary staff.
14. All officers and employees who are in service of the North Western Provincial Department
of Animal Production and Health on the day of coming into operation of this Statute shall be
deemed to have appointed under this Statute.
15. (1) Powers to execute the directions and orders made for the purpose of provisions of this
Statue and matters incidental thereto shall be vested in the Director subject to the general
administration of the Secretary.
(2) The Director may exercise the powers vested in him by delegating such powers to other
officers of the Department as the case may be.
(3) The Director shall account to the Secretary for the management of all physical, financial
and human resources including moveable and immoveable assets of the Department.
16. (1) The Provincial Director or any other officer duly authorized by the Director shall have
the powers to enter and inspect any farm or manufacturing plant or sales centre or cold
storage at any time for the purpose of execution of provisions of this Statute.
(2) No person shall obstruct any authorized officer exercising his powers under this Statute
or regulations made there under.
(3) The owner or the person in charge of or every person present at the site subjected to
inspection shall be bound to provide the officer carrying out the inspection under
subsection (1) above with samples or other information as required by the officer in
carrying out his duties.
(4) No person shall provide false or misleading samples or information to any officer engaged
in obtaining samples or information in a formal manner.
17. The Department shall execute following functions for the development, preservation, extension
and regularization of livestock in the province:
(1) to formulate and implement the annual plan in compliance with five year Plan;
(2) to ensure healthcare of animal by control, prevention of and treatment to animal disease;
Department to be
a body corporate
Appointment of
the Provincial
Director
Constitution of
the Department
Appointment of
the staff
Powers and
responsibilities of
the Director
Power to inspect
farm or
processing plans
Duties and
responsibilities of
the Department

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
4A
(3) to carry out breeding for the maintenance of an environmental friendly animal population
of high genetic quality which suits the needs of the province;
(4)  to implement extension and training programmes;
(5) to implement production and sales promotional programmes;
(6) to conduct provincial researches and surveys and publicize their results;
(7) to introduce new technology and farm mechanizations which suit the province;
(8) to liaise with research institutes of national, provincial and regional level, universities
and other institutes related to animal husbandry;
(9) to introduce and sale high quality breeding and plant materials necessary for the
development of animal farming;
(10) to register, issue licenses to, supervise and regulate rural, regional, zonal livestock
development committees, animal farms, animal caretakers, distributors, mobile sellers,
producers and distributors of veterinary medicines, equipment and feed and all voluntary
organizations and individuals involved in the livestock sector;
(11) to maintain and update all data bases related to livestock sector;
(12) to ensure hygiene and quality of animal productions and standardization of farms;
(13) to maintain laboratories to commensurate with the needs of the province;
(14) to prevent and control animal diseases in the province;
(15) to provide for and regulate the environmental friendly animal farms, processing plants,
cold storages, sales outlets, in accordance with accepted standards;
(16) to prevent and control diseases transmitted from animals to humans;
(17) to ensure animal welfare;
(18) to grant permission to transport animal within North Western Province;
(19) to organize provincial exhibitions and competitions in relation to the livestock sector
in order to appreciate those who are engaged in the sector;
(20) to inspect accounts of and give necessary advice to rural, regional and zonal livestock
development committees;
(21) to regulate manufacture, sale, and use of animal feed, animal breeding matters, veterinary
medicines, and chemicals.
18. (1) The Annual Development Plan for the ensuing year pertaining to the   development of
the Livestock Institutions and Promotion of Animal Husbandry based on the Provincial
Livestock Development Plan prepared in keeping with the provisions of the Section 05
of this Statue should be submitted by the Director to the Secretary for approval prior to
31st of October.
The Annual Plan
and Performance
Report

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
(2) The Annual Performance Report should be prepared by the Director prior to 15 thof
March of the following year and submitted to the Secretary.
PART  III
Registration of Institutions and individuals
19. Every farm, manufacturing plant, sales outlets, cold storage, rural, regional or zonal livestock
development committee related to livestock sector in the North Western Province, every
animal caretaker, distributor, mobile salesman, producer or distributor of veterinary medicines,
equipment or animal feed, every institute, voluntary organization or individual that purchase
livestock produced in the North Western Province shall obtain and annually renew the
Certificate of Registration issued by the Director.
20. For the purpose of registration, the applicant shall:
(1) make the application on the specimen prescribed by the Director;
(2) pay a registration fee as prescribed by the Minister;
(3) comply with the criteria and standards specified by regulations made under Section 84
(1) of this Statute;
(4) fulfill all other legal requirements as required.
21. No person shall transfer or alienate the certificate of registration or alter any information
contained therein without the approval of the Director.
22. The Director shall not entertain any application for registration made under Section 19 unless
it meets the requirements specified in Section 20 and shall inform thereof to the applicant in
writing.
23. (1) When the Director determines that any institution, individual or volunteer organization
that has been registered under Section 19 of this Statute, acts in contravention of the
objectives of the Statute or does not comply with the standards specified by regulations,
the registration of such institution, individual or volunteer organization may be
temporarily suspended.
(2) In the event of temporarily suspension of registration, the Director shall inform in writing
the reasons lead to such suspension to the holder of the Certificate of Registration.
(3) When the registration is temporarily suspended, if the institution, individual or volunteer
organization whose registration is so suspended takes actions to make good the reasons
lead to such suspension and to meet the stipulated requirements within a reasonable
time as determined by the Director, the registration of such institution, individual or
volunteer organization shall be reinstated.
24. If the institution, individual or volunteer organization whose registration has been suspended
fails to meet the requirements within the stipulated reasonable time as per Section 23 (3) of
this Statute, the Director shall cancel the registration and inform thereof to the institution,
individual or volunteer organization concerned.
Institutions and
individuals to
register
Requirements for
the registration
Certificate of
registration not to
alienate
Rejection of
registration
Temporary
suspension of
registration
Cancellation of
registration

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
6A
25. The party which is in receipt of a notice to the effect that the application for the registration
was rejected under Section 22 of this Statute or that the registration was cancelled under
Section 24,  may make an appeal there from to the Minister in charge of the subject within 45
days from the receipt of such notice.
26. (1) When an appeal is received under Section 25 of this Statute the Minister shall direct the
Secretary to conduct an inquiry and determine thereon.
(2) The Secretary after conducting an inquiry shall make recommendations to the Minister
to confirm or revise or reject the determination of the Director.
(3) The Secretary shall submit his recommendations within 45 days from the receipt of the
appeal and the decision of the Minister thereon shall be final and conclusive.
27. (1) When a person who has been convicted of the offence of maintaining a farm, cold storage,
manufacturing plant or sales outlet without a license issued under this Statute or
regulations made thereunder, continues to maintain the farm, cold storage, manufacturing
plant or sales outlet, an order may be issued on a request made in that regard by the
Director or any other person authorized by him, directing such person to close down
such farm, cold storage, manufacturing plant or sales outlet until such time the person
concerned obtains a license again.
(2) In any proceeding under subsection (1) above, the certificate issued by the Director or
any other officer duly authorized by him shall be prima facie evidence of the content
therein to the effect that the person whose name appears on the certificate continues to
maintain the farm, cold storage, manufacturing plant or the sales outlet without a license.
(3) Provided however that, in the event of submission of an appeal under Section 25 of this
Statute, the closure shall be deferred pending the determination of the appellate inquiry.
(4) When the decision of the Director is confirmed at the appellate inquiry and under Section
23 (2) of this Statute, action shall be taken to close down within 30 days from the date
of the appellate determination.
28. When the Director identifies any premises as a threat to the maintenance of animal welfare of
the province, he shall obtain a temporary closing order in that regard from a Magistrate court.
29. (1) When any person fails to comply with the closing order issued under Section 27(1) of
this Statute, the Magistrate shall issue an order requiring and authorizing the fiscal of
the court to close down the farm, cold storage, manufacturing plant or sales outlet
mentioned in the said order and the fiscal shall execute such order on a date prior to not
later than seven full days or sooner than three full days from the date of the order. The
order shall be sufficient authority for the fiscal or any other police officer authorized
by him for the purpose to enter the farm, cold storage, manufacturing plant or sales
outlet together with the assistants deemed necessary for the purpose of closing down
such farm, cold storage, manufacturing plant or sales outlet.
Appeals from
rejection or
cancellation of
registration.
Powers to
determine
appeals.
Order to close
down on rejection
or cancellation of
registration.
Closing order
under special
circumstances.
Closure.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
PART  IV
Provincial Livestock Development Committee
30. There shall be established a Provincial Livestock Development Committee to facilitate the
implementation of the Livestock Statute of the Province. The Provincial Minister in charge
of the subject of Livestock shall be the Chairman of the Committee and the Secretary to the
Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject of Livestock shall be the Secretary to the
Committee.  This Committee may function in collaboration with the Provincial Agriculture
Committee and Provincial Irrigation Committee.
31. (1) The constitution of the Committee shall be as follows:
I. five Council Members nominated by the Advisory Committee to the Provincial Ministry
in charge of the subject of Livestock to represent each Veterinary Medical Officer’s
Division;
II. District Secretaries of the Districts of Kurunegala and Puttlam or their representatives;
III. North Western Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health;
IV . North Western Provincial Director of Agriculture;
V . North Western Provincial Director of Irrigation;
VI. Deputy and Assistant Commissioners of Agrarian Services of the Districts of Kurunegala
and Putlam;
VII. North Western Provincial Commissioners of Land:
VIII. North Western Provincial Director of Health;
IX. North Western Provincial Commissioners of Co-operative Development;
X. Director of North Western Provincial Environment Authority;
XI. a representative nominated by the Director General of the Department of Animal
Production and Health;
XII. District Managers of the Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance Board;
XIII. Deputy Directors in charge of zones of the Provincial Department of Animal Production
and Health;
XIV . Representatives of State banks as determined;
XV . Chairpersons of Zonal Livestock Development Committees;
XVI. A Provincial Representative of the Livestock Development Board;
XVII. Three Heads of Institutes involved in livestock Development;
XVIII. Three representatives of Dairy Purchasing Institutions on order of purchase.
Provincial
Livestock
Development
Committee
The Constitution
of the Committee

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
8A
(2) The Committee may co-opt the representatives or individuals of organizations and
institutions for the deliberations of the Committee as may be determined by the Minister.
32. The members mentioned under I to XIII in subsection 31 (1) of this Statute shall be ex-officio
members of the Committee and those other members mentioned under XIV to XVI may be
appointed by the Minister at his discretion.
33. The term of office of the members appointed by the Minister shall be two years.
34. Where a member appointed by the Minister vacates office by expiry of term of office,
resignation, removal by the Minister at his discretion, absence from three consecutive meetings
or death or insanity, the Minister shall fill the vacancy so created.
35. The Provincial Committee shall meet at least once in every two months and if found necessary
the Secretary may convene supplementary meetings of the Committee on the direction of the
Chairman.
36. (1). The quorum of the Committee shall be ¼ of the membership.
(2). The existence of vacancies in the Committee shall not hinder the conduct of meetings
of the Committee or the making of decisions at such meetings.
37. The functions of the Provincial Livestock Development Committee shall be:-
(1) to submit recommendations and proposals for the formulation of policies pertaining to
matters stipulated in this Statute in compliance with the National Policy and needs of
the province;
(2) to provide necessary advice for the operation and implementation of matters stipulated
in the Statute;
(3) to approve the five year Livestock Development Plan and other long term and medium
term development plans forwarded to the Committee;
(4) to take follow up actions and to review the formulation and implementation of the
Provincial Livestock Development Policy while providing  necessary resources,
guidance and assistance for the same;
(5) to grant prior approval for any programme or project for the extension and promotion
of and education on livestock, provision of services and for researches on livestock to
be implemented within the province by any governmental or non-governmental
organization, institution, foundation, society, project, programme or similar institution,
individual or group of persons and to take appropriate action when relevant conditions
are violated.
38. (1) The Committee may make procedures for the conduct of business of the meetings of
the Committee.
(2) The members of the Committee participating in the meetings thereof may be remunerated
at such rates as may be determined by the Minister and be approved by the Governor.
Appointment of
members to the
Provincial
Livestock
Development
Committee.
Term of office of
appointed
members.
Vacation of
membership and
filling up of
vacancies.
Meetings of the
Committee.
Quorum of the
Committee.
Powers and
functions of the
Committee.
Procedures and
remuneration for
participation.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
PART  V
Rural Livestock Development Societies
39. The farmers engaged in livestock activities in a Grama Niladhari Division or any part thereof
or several divisions may get together and set up Rural Livestock Development Societies for
each field of Animal Husbandry or amalgamating two or more such fields and every such
society shall be registered with the Department.
40. Rural Livestock Development Society shall, by the name assigned to it be a body corporate
and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may carry out all functions related
to the livestock sector and may sue and be sued in such name.
41. The object of setting up of these societies shall be to develop the livestock sector by mobilizing
those who are engaged in the livestock sector at rural level and thereby empowering them.
The object of setting up of societies
42. Qualifications to be eligible for membership:
(1) to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(2) to be not less than 18 years of age;
(3) the farm to be located within the area of authority of the Livestock Development Society;
(4) the farm to have registered with the Department of Animal Productions.
43. Every Rural Livestock Development Society shall appoint an executive committee comprising
of Chairman, Secretary, Treasure, Vice-chairman, Co-Secretary, and six members and the term
of office of such office bearers shall be one year from the appointment.
44. (1)  The Director shall prepare the constitution for the Rural Livestock Development
Societies which shall be approved by the Minister.
(2) Every Rural Livestock Development Society shall comply with the constitution.
45. The powers and functions of Rural Livestock Development Societies:
(1) to formulate and implement livestock development plan for the area of authority of the
society in compliance with the provincial plan and coordinate and regulate the
implementation of the said plan;
(2) to facilitate and liaise with relevant institutions for the development of farms of members;
(3) to resolve issues relating to livestock sector arising within the area of authority of the
society;
(4) to maintain an updated data base relevant to the sector and disseminate such data to
relevant parties when the need arises;
(5) to implement loan schemes for members of the society;
(6) to implement programmes to enhance the funds of the society;
Setting up and
registration of
societies.
Rural Livestock
Development
Society to be a
body corporate.
The object of
setting up of
societies.
Constitution and
term of office.
Constitution of
societies.
Powers and
functions.
Membership

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
10A
(7) to work for the welfare of members of the society;
(8) to nominate a member to represent the Regional Livestock Development Committee;
(9) to assist in the implementation of insurance scheme; (10) to organize programmes to
create new farmers.
46. (1)  The Secretary shall convene meetings of the Society once in every month or two months
and may convene supplementary meetings of the Society at the request of the majority
of members.
(2) The quorum of the meetings shall be more than 1/3 of the membership.
47. (1) When a member vacates office by reason of :
I. resignation;
II. absence from three consecutive meetings;
III. death or insanity;
IV . removal at the will of the majority members on grounds of any breach of the
Statute or distancing from the livestock  sector; such member shall cease to be a
member.
(2) When a member ceases to be a member or resigns or is removed at the will of the
majority members, the office of such member shall cease.
48. There shall be paid into the Rural Livestock Development Fund:
 I. the membership subscription;
II. donations by the State, Provincial, Non-governmental organizations;
III. donations by individuals;
IV . interest and dividends of the fund;
V . All money received from other sources.
49. The Account of the Fund.
(1) The account of the Fund shall be maintained in a State Bank and the accounts of fund shall be
maintained as provided by the constitution of the society.
(2) The Director or any other officer authorized by him shall examine the accounts of the Fund
annually or as appropriate.
50. (1) The supervision of the affairs of, examination of books of and providing guidance and
advice to Rural Livestock Development Societies established within his area of authority
shall be vested in the Animal Development Advisor.
(2) Any officer duly authorized by the director for the purpose may supervise and examine
the books of Rural Livestock Development Societies.
Meetings of the
Society and the
quorum of such
meetings
Vacation of
membership or
office
Accounts of the
Fund of the
Society
The Fund of the
Society
Supervision of
Societies

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
51. (1). The Director shall appoint a staff grade public officer as the liquidator to cancel the
registration and to liquidate any registered Rural Livestock Development Society on
any one or more of the following grounds:
(i) the membership declines to less than eleven;
(ii) being defunct for a period exceeding one year;
(iii) has acted contrary to its objects;
(iv)  number of members not less than two thirds (2/3) of the membership making a
request to the Director citing that the society has failed to act for the achievement
of its objectives.
(2). The liquidator appointed under Subsection 51(1) above shall have the following powers
subject to the prior approval of the Secretary to the provincial Ministry in charge of the
subject:
(i)  to determine the priority among the creditors of the society;
(ii) to sale properties of the society;
(iii) to settle any claims by or against the society;
(iv) to distribute assets of the society as required.
(3). The Liquidation Notice of the liquidator shall be published in newspapers published in
all three languages viz Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(4). When a society is liquidated, the fund of the society shall be used for the settlement of
liquidation expenses in the first instance and thereafter for the settlement of its liabilities.
The surplus of funds on liquidation shall be credited to the Dairy  Promotion Fund.
PART  VI
Regional Livestock Development Committee
52. There shall be established a Regional Livestock Development Committee for each Regional
Veterinary Medical Officer’s Division and be registered with the Department.
53. (1) The Director shall prepare the Constitution of the Regional Livestock Development
Committees which shall be approved by the Minister.
(2) Every Regional Livestock Development Committee shall act in compliance to the said
constitution.
54. (1).   The Committee shall constitute of the followings;
(i) Veterinary Medical Officer;
(ii) Animal Development Instructors;
Cancellation of
registration and
liquidation.
Establishment of
Regional
Livestock
Development
Committees
Constitution of
the Committees
The constitution
of the Committee

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
12A
(iii) Ten members elected by the majority vote of the representatives nominated by
Rural Livestock Development Societies;
(iv) An Agro Development Officer;
(v) A Public Health Inspector;
(vi) An Agriculture Instructor nominated by the Provincial Director of Agriculture;
(vii) A Coconut Development Officer;
(viii) An officer involved in the sector nominated by the Divisional Secretary ;
(ix) An Environmental Officer of a Local Authority;
(x) Regional Agents of Dairy Purchasing Companies within the North Western Province.
(2). Where a nominated member vacates office, the Deputy Director in charge of the Zones
shall on the recommendation of the Veterinary Medical Officer, nominate another
member to represent the relevant field of the member who vacates office.
55. The representatives of governmental, non-governmental and private organizations engaged in
the livestock sector may obtain the associated membership of the Committee with the approval
of the Committee and they shall not be entitled to voting at the meetings or to hold any office
of the Committee.
56. The Chairperson of the Regional Livestock Development Committee shall be elected from
among the members of Rural Livestock Development Societies and the Veterinary Medical
Officer of the Division shall be the ex-officio Secretary to the Committee.
57. The term of office of the non ex-officio members shall terminate when they cease to be
members of the society they represent.
58. Meetings of the Committee shall be convened once in every three months and the quorum of
such meeting shall be over 1/3 of the membership.
59. Functions of the Committee shall be as follows:
(1) to formulate the Regional  Livestock Development Plan based on the Provincial
Livestock Development Plan;
(2) to formulate special project proposals in accordance with the regional potentialities
and to seek financial provisions for the same while coordinating among other relevant
institutions;
(3)  to provide necessary assistance and guidance to formulate the Rural Livestock
Development Plan;
(4) to take action on matters referred to the Committee by the Rural Livestock Development
Societies;
(5) to ensure the efficient and effective utilization of funds received for the livestock sector;
(6) To nominate representatives to the Zonal Livestock Development Committee;
Associated
membership
The Chairperson
and the Secretary
of the Committee
The term of office
of members
Meetings and
quorum of the
Committee
Functions of the
Committee

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
(7) to liaise between Rural Livestock Development Societies and Zonal Livestock
Development Committee;
(8) to allocate financial provisions received for the livestock sector within the area of
authority of the Regional Committee to the beneficiaries;
(9) to take action to ensure that the beneficiaries have easy access to the inputs of the
livestock sector.
PART VII
Zonal Livestock Development Committee
60. There shall be established a Zonal Livestock Development Committee for each zone as
demarcated under Section 7 of this Statute and shall be registered with the Department.
61. The Director shall prepare the constitution of the Zonal Livestock Development Committees
which shall be approved by the Minister and every Zonal Livestock Development Committee
shall act in compliance to the said constitution.
62. The constitution of the Committee shall be as follows:
(1) Deputy Director in-charge of the Zone;
(2) Chairpersons of Regional Livestock Development Committees;
 (3) four Veterinary Medical Officers appointed by the Director;
(4) four senior Animal Development Instructors appointed by the Director;
(5) a Livestock Investigation Officer;
(6) an Assistant Director Nominated by the Director;
(7) representatives of the Livestock Development Board and dairy  purchasing companies;
(8) a representative of the Agrarian Insurance Board ;
(9) a representative of the District Secretary;
(10) a representative of the  Central Environment Authority;
(11) District Health Services Director or his representative.
63. The representatives of governmental, non-governmental and private organizations engaged in
the livestock sector may obtain the associated membership of the Committee with the approval
of the Committee and they shall not be entitled to voting at the meetings or to hold any office
of the Committee.
64. The Chairperson of the Zonal Livestock Development Committee shall be elected from among
the Chairpersons of Regional Livestock Development Committees and the Deputy Director
in charge of the Zone shall be the ex-officio Secretary to the Committee.
Zonal Livestock
Development
Committees
The constitution
of Committees
The constitution
of the Committee
Associated
membership
The Chairperson
and the Secretary
of the Committee

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
14A
65. The term of office of a non ex-officio member shall terminate when he ceases to be a member
of the Regional Livestock Development Committee.
66. Meetings of the Committee shall be convened once in every four months and the quorum of
such meeting shall be over  1/3 of the membership.  The Secretary may convene supplementary
meetings of the Committee under special circumstances on notice thereof to the Chairperson.
67. Functions of the Committee shall be as follows:
(1) to actively participate in the formulation and implementation of the Zonal Livestock
Development Plan;
(2) to liaise with the Provincial Livestock Development Committee:
(3) to take action on matters referred to the Committee by the Regional Livestock
Development Committees;
(4) To submit proposals for the formulation of Provincial Livestock Development Plan;
(5) to coordinate among Regional Livestock Development Committees;
(6) To nominate three representatives of the dairy sector to the Management Board of the
Dairy Development fund.
PART VIII
Diary Development Fund
68. There shall be established a Fund hereinafter referred to as the Dairy Development Fund.
69. The Fund by the name assigned to it be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession
and a common seal and may carry out all functions related to the livestock sector and may sue
and be sued in such name.
70. The Director of the North Western Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health
shall be responsible for the administration of the Fund.
71. There shall be appointed a Board of Management for the administration, management and
control of the Dairy Development Fund.
72. (1) The Board of Management of the Dairy  Development Fund hereinafter referred to as
the “Fund” shall constitute of the following:
(I) Secretary to the Provincial Ministry in-charge of the subject;
(II) the Regional manager of the MILCO Ltd. and two agents of two dairy purchasing
private companies;
(III) a specialist  in the field of dairy farming;
(IV) three representatives engaged in the dairy sector and nominated by the Zonal
Livestock Development Committees.
Meetings and
quorum of the
Committee
Functions of the
Committee
Dairy
Development
Fund
Constitution of
the Board of
Management
Fund to be a body
corporate
Director to be
responsible for
the administration
of the Fund
Board of
Management of
the Fund
The term of office

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
(2) The members other than the Secretary to the Provincial Ministry in-charge of the subject
shall be appointed by the Minister.
73. (1) The Secretary to the Provincial Ministry in-charge of the subject shall be the ex-officio
chairperson of the Board of Management
(2) The Director of the Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health shall be
the Secretary to the Board of Management.
74. (1) The term of office of a member appointed by the Minister shall be three years from the
date of appointment and the office of such member shall terminate on the cessation of
membership of the Rural, Regional or Zonal Livestock Development Committees.
(2) The Minister shall have the power to remove any member appointed by him at any time
when the Minister is satisfied that such member does not duly execute the duties and
responsibilities of the office and his holding the office is harmful to the Board.
(3) The membership of an ex-officio member shall terminate when he ceases to hold the
office on which he was appointed to the Board.
(4) Any member other than ex-officio members of the Board may resign from office by a
written request addressed to the Minister.
(5) The membership of a member shall terminate by reason of his death or insanity.
(6) The term of office of any member appointed to fill a vacancy created by reason of
resignation or removal of any member shall be limited to the remaining period of his
predecessor.
75. The members and the Secretary of the Board participating in the meetings of the Board may
be remunerated at such rates as may be determined by the Minister with the approval of the
Governor.
76. The quorum of the meetings of the Board shall at least be 05 members including the chairperson.
77. (1) The Director of the Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health shall
maintain a current account in a State bank in favour of the Fund.
(2) All monies paid into the Fund shall be deposited to the credit of the account.
(3) When excessive monies are collected such monies may be deposited in a fixed deposit
in a State bank.
78. There shall be paid into Fund:
(1) such sums of money out of the Provincial Council Fund as may be allocated in accordance
with the Livestock Development Plan prepared annually for the purpose of livestock
development;
(2) all sums of money received from public institutions or Local Authorities;
(3) the contributions received from companies engaged in purchasing of over 1000 liters
on a daily basis within the province at a rate of rupees one per every liter of milk so
purchased;
Chairperson and
Secretary of the
Board of
Management.
Appointment,
term of office and
cessation of
membership of
members of the
Board
Remuneration for
participation.
The quorum of
the Board
Bank account of
the Fund
Payments into the
Fund

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
16A
(4) all monies received as donations and gifts from local, foreign, government, non-
government and private organizations which contribute for the animal development in
the province;
(5) the interest of the fixed deposit;
(6) the insurance premium;
(7) the surplus remaining after liquidation of Rural Livestock Development Societies;
(8) all monies collected as fines by the court on conviction of offences committed in
contravention  of provisions of this Statute;
(9) all monies received as loan installments and interests;
(10) such sums of money received as fees for registration of institutions and farms; and
(11) all monies received from other sources.
79. The Director of the Department of Animal Production and Health may pay out of the Fund for
the following purposes subject to the approval of the Board of Management and in compliance
with the provisions of North Western Provincial Financial Regulations and the Financial
Regulation of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka:
(1) for dairy promotional programmes:
(2) for providing loans to beneficiaries;
(3) for the payment of insurance claims:
(4) for establishments and administration expenses.
80. The functions of the Fund shall be as follows:
(1) to implement dairy promotional programmes;
(2) to implement relief programmes;
(3) to implement insurance programmes;
(4) to implement farmer empowering programmes;
(5) to carry out provincial research activities;
(6) to develop human resource.
81. The accounts of the Fund shall be audited annually by the Auditor-General.
82. The Minister may make regulation as may be required for the purpose of the Statute.
Payment out of
the Fund
Regulations
Audit of accounts
of the Fund
Functions of the
Fund

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
83. (1) The functions of the Fund shall be attended to by the staffs of the Provincial Ministry
in-charge of the subject and the Department of Animal Production and Health.
(2) Where the staff should be paid an additional remuneration, the staff may be remunerated
at such rates as may be determined by the Minister subject to the approval of the
Governor.
PART  IX
General
84. (1) The Minister shall issue necessary instructions, guidance and orders for the
implementation of provisions of the Statute.
(2) The Minister shall demarcate the divisions referred to in Section 7 of this Statute and
such demarcations shall be published in the Gazette.
(3) The Minister shall have the power to impose restrictions as appropriate in transporting
animals within and out of the province.
(4) The Minister shall have the power to make regulations in respect of prevention and
control of animal diseases within the province.
85. (1) Every regulation made by the Minister under Section 84 (1) of this Statute shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication
or on such date as may be specified in such regulation.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon as it is convenient after its publication
in the Gazette, be brought before the Provincial Council for approval. Any regulation
which is not so approved by the Provincial Council shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of disapproval but without prejudices to anything previously made
thereunder and a notification of the date on which any such regulation is deemed rescinded
shall be published in the Gazette.
86. (1) Any person aggrieved by any regulation made under this Statute or by any order or decision
made by any officer, may prefer an appeal to the Minister.
(2) The Minister may affirm, vary or amend the order or decision against which the appeal
has been preferred on the recommendation made by an officer or a Board of Inquiry
appointed by the Secretary by order of the Minister, after an inquiry into the matter.
87. Every party registered under Section 19 shall provide accurate information relating to the
livestock sector on demand to the Director.
88. Every institute which is registered under Section 19 and engaged in purchasing milk, meat and
eggs produced in the province, shall submit to the Director a monthly report indicating the
amounts it purchased during the month in the format as may be specified by the Director
before the 15
th day of the following month.
89. Every institute which is registered under Section 19 of this Statute and purchases more than
1000 liters of milk a day shall make a contribution of Rupees one for every liter of milk it
purchases to the Dairy Development Fund.
The staff of the
fund and
remuneration to
the staff
Powers of the
Minister
Regulations
Appeals
Right to
information
Monthly report
Contribution

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
18A
90. Every Government or non-government institution, organization, foundation, forum, project,
programme or similar institution, person or group of persons shall obtain the approval of the
Provincial Livestock Development Committee prior to commencing any project or programme
for the extension and promotion of livestock, provision of education, services and for the
conduct of researches on livestock within the province.
PART  X
Offences and Penalties
91. Every person who contravenes any provisions of this Statute or any regulation made thereunder
shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute.
92 Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of Sections 16, 19, 21,
87, 88, 89 and 90 of this Statute or any regulation made thereunder shall on conviction after
summary trial by a Magistrate be punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or to a fine not exceeding rupees hundred thousand or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
93. Where an offence under this Statute is committed, the Provincial Director or any other officer
authorized by him shall have the power to institute action.
PART  XI
Interpretation
94. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires:-
“Province” means the North Western Province ;
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Governor” means the Governor of Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Minister” means the Minister in-Charge of the subject of Livestock of the Provincial Council
of the North Western Province ;
“Provincial Ministry” means the Ministry in-Charge of the subject of Livestockof the
Provincial Council of the North Western Province;
“Secretary” means the Secretary to the Ministry in-Charge of the subject of Livestock of
the Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Department” means the North Western Provincial Department of Animal Production and
Health;
“Director” means the Director of North Western Provincial Department of Animal Production
and Health;
“Provincial Livestock Research”  means experiments carried out at the provincial level (other
than those to form basic theories) to resolve technical and related issues that may
Approval for
projects and
programmes to be
obtained
Offences
Penalty for
contravention of
this Statute
Power to institute
action.
Interpretation

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.09.2016
arise in the process of livestock development at provincial level; to obtain
recommendations on innovations; and to  establish the relevance of recommendations
made and technologies introduced;
“Farm” means the units where stock such as cattle, buffalos, goats, sheep, swine, hare, poultry,
quills, ducks and turkey  are raised and maintained;
“Manufacturing plant” means a place where food, materials, utensils, medicine related to
the livestock sector and animal feed are manufactured or value added;
“Livestock” means the stock such as cattle, buffaloes, goats, sheep, swine, hare, poultry,
quills, ducks and turkey;
“State Bank” means the Bank of Ceylon, People’s Bank and National Savings Bank;
“Reasonable time” means a period of time as may be determined as the case may be by the
Director in relation to any matter depending on its nature.
95. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute,
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
09-977
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.