

<!-- page 1 -->

225
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023. 10'13
Part II – Gazette of the democrat Ic Soc Ial IS t r epubl Ic of Sr I l anka - 13.10.2023
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
P ART  II  — Le GAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Im P o RTA n T   n o TI ce  Re GARDI n G   Acce PTA nce  of  n o TI ce S  
f o R   Pub LI c ATI on  I n  T he  Week L y   “G A ze TT e”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd November 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th   October 2023
e lectronic Transactions Act, n o. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January
, 2023.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
225-B 82504- 353 (10/2023)
Page Page
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 226
wxl 2"354 - 2023  Tlaf;dan¾ ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2023 .10'13
no. 2,354  FRIDAy,  OCTOBER 13, 2023
N. B.–   Part IV (A) of the Gazette No. 2353  of 06.10..2023 was not published. 
n ote.-  Finance Bill is Published as a supplement to be Part II of the Gazette of he Democratic socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
of September 27, 2023 
Note.- Appropriation Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka of September 27, 2023

<!-- page 2 -->

226
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.10'13
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 13.10.2023
Miscellaneous Notices
An Act to Incorporate the Jeewithaya foundation
I Wimalaweera Dissanayake do hereby give noice under Standing Order No. 53 of the Standing order of the Parliament of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to introduce in Parliament a Bill entiled" An Act to Incorporate 
the Jeewithaya Foundation"
 The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Foundation which has the following objects :-
(a) To protect all rights of women and chlildren
(b) To support students fo their education , sports and Art Activities,
(c) To assist and supports humanitrarian activities.
etc.
 W imala Weera  D issanayake ,
 Member of Parliament.
10-147
An Act to Incorporate the udunuwara Development Trust (Incorporation)
I Velukumar do hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 53 of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to Introduce in Parliament a Bill enitled " An Act to Incorporate the "Udunuwara 
Development Trust"
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said trust which has the following General Objects:-
(a) To support the students of schools to be able to perform at optimum level in curricular,Co-curricular and extra-
curricular activities.
(b) to support for the wealth and health of the public by educating, training and implementing necessary projects.
(c) To work towards the unity by ensuring the benefit and involvement of all communities at all activities of 
Udunuwara Development Trust.
Etc.
 V elukumar ,
 Member of Parliament.
10-148
An Act to incorporate the Thulkal Trust fund (Incorporation)
 I Kulasingham Dhileeban do hereby give notice under Standing Order No. 53 of the Standing Order of the Parliament of 
the Democratic Socialsit Republic of Sri Lanka that I propose to inroduce in Parliament a Bill entitled" An Act incorporate 
the "Thulikal Trust Fund".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Trust which has the following General Objects :-
(a) To participate in social, cultural and economic development of the country;
(d)   To take measures to protect the discipline and cultural values of the people :
 ( c)   to give assistance to develop worships places :-
Etc.
 k ulasingham  D hileeban ,
 Member of Parliament.
10-149

<!-- page 3 -->

227
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.10'13
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 13.10.2023
PRINTED  AT  ThE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
notice of Winding up
In the high court of the Western Province holden in colombo (exercising civil jurisdiction)
  IN ther matter of an application for winding up by   
  Court under Part XII of  the Companies Act No.07 of 2007.
  Zoom International (Private) Limited [Formerly of harrods  
  International (Private) Limited] bearing Registration No. PV  
  64201 and having its Registered Office at No. 1- 1/1,  
  Katukurunduwatte  Road, Attidiya Ratmalana.
  Charles Rohan Ravindra De Alwis,
  No. 148/5, 5th  Lane,
  Anderson Road,
  Dehiwala.
..............................Petitioner
Notice is hereby [given that a petition dated 25th  of August 2023 for the winding up of the above named Zoom International 
(Private) Limited (Formerly of harrods International Private) Limited] bearing Registration No. PV 64201 and having its 
Registered Office at No. 1-1/1, Katukurunduwatte Road, Attidiya, Ratmalana, by the high Court of the Western Province 
(holden in Colombo) in the exercise of its Civil jurisdiction was presented to the said Court by the petitioner and the said 
Petition is directed to be heard before the court on 14 th  December 2023 and any creditor or contributory of the said company 
desirous to support or oppose the making of an order on the said petition may appear at the time of hearing in person or by 
his Attorney-at-law for the purpose, and copy of the petition will be furnished to any creditor of contributory of the said 
company requiring the same by the undersigned on the payment of the prescribed charge for the same.
Signed :- Diani C. Millavithanachchi,
Attorney-at-Law,
No. 492/D/S, Lake Road, Averihena, hokandara.
Note- Any person who intends to appear on the hearing of the said Petition must serve on or send by registered post to the 
above named, Diani C. Millavithanachchi, notice in writing of his intension so to do. The notice must state the name and 
address of the person, or if a firm, the name and address, of the firm, and must be signed by the person or firm, or his or their 
Attorney-at –Law (if any) and must be served or if posted, must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the above address 
not later than 4,00 O'clock in the afternoon of the 13
th  December 2023.
 attorney-at laW for the Petitioner.
10-167
Case No. .-  ChC66/2023/CO.
Nature  :-  Company
Procedure  :-  Summary