

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2294
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2290
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"132 – 2019 cQ,s ui 12 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'07'12
No. 2,132  –  fRiday ,  July 12, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd august, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th July, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81541- 5,403 (07/2019)
Note.– (i) Holidays (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of June 28, 2019.
 (ii) chartered institute of transport of Sri lanka (incorporation) (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii 
of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 28, 2019.
N. B.–    (i) Part iV (a) of the Gazette No. 2,131 of 05.07.2019 was not published.
 
2287

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2288
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2289
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2290
Posts – vacant
PARLIAmENT  Of  SRI  LANkA
Post of Driver
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for the post of “driver” on the Staff of the Secretary-General 
of Parliament. 
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri 
lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte" on or before august 03, 
2019. the “Post of driver” should be indicated on the top 
left-hand corner of the envelope. (this information is also 
available on the website: www.parliament.lk)
1. Salary Scale. – according to the Schedule i of the 
Management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
monthly salary scale specified for this post is Rs. 30,350 – 11 
x 330 / 10 x 380 – Rs. 37,780/- . the selected candidates will 
be placed initially at the monthly salary step of Rs. 27,214  
according to the Schedule ii of the circular mentioned 
above. (the minimum initial gross monthly remuneration 
together with all the allowances will be approximately                                 
Rs. 57,000.00)
2. Age Limit.– Should be not less than 25 years and not 
more than 40 years of age by the closing date for applications. 
(the upper age limit shall not apply to those who are already 
in Public/ Provincial Public Service)
3. Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed 
G.c.E o/l  examination in 6 subjects including Sinhala/
tamil in not more than two sittings.
 
4. Professional Qualifications.– applicants should have 
a license to drive all classes of vehicles including heavy 
vehicles. the applicants must be able to handle minor repair 
work of vehicles that may arise when performing their duties 
(Preference will be given to applicants who have knowledge 
in motor mechanism).
5.  experience .– applicants should have a minimum of 
05 years working experience in a government institution or 
a recognized private establishment. 
  
6.  Method of Recruitment.– through a written test, trade 
test and an interview.
7.  Terms and Conditions of Service :
 i. this post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined 
according to policy decisions taken by the 
Government in future.  appointment will be made 
subject to a three-year (3) probation period. if a 
person who has been confirmed in a permanent, 
pensionable post in the Public/ Provincial Public 
service is selected, he / she will be appointed 
subject to an acting period of one year.
 ii. Selected candidates will be subject to the financial 
and departmental Regulations applicable to the 
staff of the Secretary - General of Parliament.
 iii.  Selected candidates should contribute to 
the Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and    
orphans’ Pension fund from his/her salary with 
a percentage specified by the Government.
 iv. Selected candidates will be subject to a medical 
examination.
 v. a  Security clearance Report with respect to the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.
      8. applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certificates (not originals) to their applications. Originals of 
the certificates should be produced, when called upon to do 
so.
(a) Birth Certificate,
(b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications,
(c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications,
(d)	Certificates	of	Experience,
(e)		Driving	License.
 9. applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public 
Service or on the staff of the Secretary – General of the 
Parliament should send their applications through relevant 
Heads of departments / institutions.
10. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
11. any information in the application found to be 
incorrect disclosed before selection will render the applicant 
liable for disqualification, and to dismissal, if discovered 
after appointment.
12. applications received after the closing date or 
sent without copies of the relevant certificates or not sent 
through Heads of departments / institutions will be rejected. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2291
applications sent through Heads of departments /institutions 
but received after the closing date, and applications not 
prepared in accordance with the specimen will also be 
rejected. 
 
W. M. N. P. IddaWala,
             Acting Secretary,
 General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri lanka,
Sri Jayewardenepura, Kotte,
12th July, 2019.
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM 
ParlIaMeNt of SrI laNka
PoSt of  drIver
01.  (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
 (b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :––––––.
  (c) full Name (in block capitals) :- (Mr/Mrs /Miss) : 
–––––––––––.
02.  N. i. c :-   
03.  (a) Private address  :–––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-  
  (b) Official Address :–––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-  
  (c) Please indicate the address the admission to be posted :
  Private      Official 
04. (a) date of Birth:-  ……………… 
  (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached) 
  (b) age as at the closing date of applications:-  
  y ears :–––––––.  Months :––––––––.  days :––––––.
05.  civil Status :-  (Married/ unmarried) :–––––––––––.
06.  Gender :-  (Male/ female) :–––––––––––.
07.  State whether a citizen of Sri lanka :–––––––––––.
        (yes/No)
08. Education Qualifications :- 
 (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
examination Subject
Pass 
Obtained Year
G.c.E
o/l
Sinhala/tamil
 
09. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
 (Copies of the certificates should be attached) 
10. Experience :–––––––––––.
 (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
11.  details of the Present Employment :
 (a) Name and address of the institution  :–––––––––.
 (b) Date of first Appointment  :–––––––––––.
 (c) Present Post  :–––––––––––.
 (d) Monthly basic salary  :–––––––––––.
 (e) allowances :–––––––––––.
 (f) Gross Salary  :–––––––––––.
12.  Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of law? (yes/No)  :–––––––––––.
 if yes, give details  :–––––––––––.
13. Have you served under the Government before? 
 (y es/No)
 if yes, give details  :–––––––––––.
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2292
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(only for applicants serving in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs /
Miss ............................... holding the post of .......................
................................ in this institution. i certify that He/she 
has been confirmed in the post, his/her work and conduct 
are satisfactory and he/she has not been subject to any 
disciplinary action and there is no intention to make such 
inquiry. He/She can be released/cannot be released from the 
service if selected for this post.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of department/institution.
 (Official Stamp) 
date  :–––––––––––.
07–615/1
–––––––––––––––––
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA
Post of Cook
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for the post of “cook” on the Staff of the Secretary-General 
of Parliament. 
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri 
lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte" on or before august 03, 
2019. the “Post of cook” should be indicated on the top 
left-hand corner of the envelope. (this information is also 
available on the website: www.parliament.lk)
1. Salary Scale. – according to the Schedule i of the 
Management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
monthly salary scale specified for this post is Rs. 30,350 – 
11 x 330 / 10 x 380 – 37780/- the selected candidates will 
be placed initially at the monthly salary step of Rs. 27,214  
according to the schedule ii of the circular mentioned 
above. (the minimum initial gross monthly remuneration 
together with all the allowances will be approximately                                   
Rs. 57,000.00)
2. Age Limit.– Should be not less than 25 years and not 
more than 40 years of age by the closing date for applications. 
3. Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) 
Examination in six subjects including credit pass for Sinhala 
or tamil language and passes for Mathematics and English 
at not less than two sittings.
 
4. Professional Qualifications .– A Certificate in basic 
level cookery obtained from Sri lanka institute of tourism 
and Hotel Management (SlitHM)/ V ocational training 
institute (Vta)/ any other institute recognized by the 
Government
5. experience.– Not less than 5 years of working 
experience as a cook in a star class hotel/ Government 
recognized institution. 
Note: Skills in butchery and experience in western 
cuisine in addition to Sri lankan cuisine will be 
an advantage. 
6.  Method of Recruitment.– through a trade test and an 
interview
7.  Terms and Conditions of Service :
 i. this post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined according 
to policy decisions taken by the Government in 
future.  appointment will be made subject to a 
three-year (3) probation period. if a person who 
has been confirmed in a permanent, pensionable 
post in the Public/ Provincial Public service is 
selected, he / she will be appointed subject to an 
acting period of one year.
 ii. Selected candidates will be subject to the financial 
and departmental Regulations applicable to the 
staff of the Secretary - General of Parliament.
 iii.  Selected candidates should contribute to the 
Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and orphans’ 
Pension fund from his/her salary with a percentage 
specified by the Government.
 iv. Selected candidates will be subject to a medical 
examination.
 v. a Security clearance Report with respect to the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.
      8. applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certificates (not originals) to their applications. Originals of 
the certificates should be produced, when called upon to do 
so.
(a) Birth Certificate
(b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2293
(c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications
(d) Certificates of Experience
9. applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public 
Service should send their applications through relevant 
Heads of departments / institutions.
10. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
11. any information in the application found to be 
incorrect disclosed before selection will render the applicant 
liable for disqualification, and to dismissal, if discovered 
after appointment.
12. applications received after the closing date or 
sent without copies of the relevant certificates or not 
sent through Heads of departments / institutions will be 
rejected. applications sent through Heads of departments 
/institutions but received after the closing date, and 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
will also be rejected. 
 
W. M. N. P. IddaWala,
             Acting Secretary,
 General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri lanka,
Sri Jayewardenepura, Kotte,
12th July, 2019.
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM 
ParlIaMeNt of SrI laNka
PoSt of  Cook
01.  (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 (b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––.
  (c) full Name (in block capitals) :- (Mr/Mrs /Miss) : 
–––––––––––.
02.  N. i. c :-   
03.  (a) Private address  :–––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-  
  (b) Official Address :–––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-  
  (c) Please indicate the address the admission to be posted :
  Private :      Official :
04. (a) date of Birth:-  ……………… 
  (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached) 
  (b) age as at the closing date of applications:-  
  y ear :–––––––.  Month :––––––––.  date :––––––––.
05.  civil Status :-  (Married/ unmarried) :–––––––––––.
06.  Gender :-  (Male/ female) :–––––––––––.
07.  State whether a citizen of Sri lanka :–––––––––––.
        (yes/No)
08. Educational Qualifications :- 
 (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
examination Subject Pass Year
G.c.E
(o/l)
Sinhala/tamil
English
Mathematics
 
09. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
 (Copies of the certificates should be attached) 
10. Experience :–––––––––––.
 (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
11. Specialized field (Please P in the relevant field) :
 Sri lankan cuisine (  )
 Western cuisine (  )
 Butchery (  )
12.  details of the Present Employment :
 (a) Name and address of the institution  :–––––––––.
 (b) Date of first Appointment  :–––––––––––.
 (c) Present Post  :–––––––––––.
 (d) Monthly basic salary  :–––––––––––.
 (e) allowances :–––––––––––.
 (f) Gross Salary  :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2294
13.  Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of law? (yes/No)  :–––––––––––.
 if yes, give details  :–––––––––––.
14. Have you served under the Government before? 
 (y es/No)
 if yes, give details  :–––––––––––.
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(only for applicants serving in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs /
Miss ............................... holding the post of .......................
................................ in this institution. i certify that He/she 
has been confirmed in the post, his/her work and conduct 
are satisfactory and he/she has not been subject to any 
disciplinary action and there is no intention to make such 
inquiry. He/she can be released/cannot be released from the 
service if selected for this post.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of department/institution.
 (Official Stamp) 
date  :–––––––––––.
07–615/2
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of fOREIGN AffAIRS
1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination and Second 
Language Test for the Officers of the Sri Lanka 
foreign Service – 2018 (2019)
IT is hereby notified that the 1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination and the Second Language Test for the Officers 
in the Sri lanka foreign Service will be held in colombo 
and in Sri lanka Missions abroad in october 2019.  the oral 
test will be held only in colombo.
02. the time table would be prepared enabling the 
candidates to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations at the 
same time.
03. Syllabus.– Syllabus and the other Provisions by 
which the First and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations are 
Governed are indicated in the respective Service Minute.
the syllabus and the other provisions for the Second 
language test are indicated in appendix “a” while the 
syllabus and the other provisions and for the first and 
Second Efficiency Bar Examinations and for the foreign 
languages are indicated in appendix “B”.
The officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the 
Efficiency Bar Examination at one or more sittings.  Action 
will be taken to conduct Oral Tests for the officers who sit 
for the Second language test at the same venue at the same 
time.
04. The subjects for which the officers should appear in 
the Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows:
1St EfficiENcy BaR ExaMiNatioN
PaRt i
Subject   
No.
Subject Duration
hours
01.  finance  03
02.  History and Geography of Sri lanka  03
PaRt ii
03.  Elementary constitutional law and  
international law   
03
04.  diplomatic Practice 03
05.  international affairs 03
06.          the Sri lanka foreign Service 
Minute, foreign Ministry  
Regulations and compute literacy 
03
2Nd EfficiENcy BaR ExaMiNatioN
PaRt i
Subject   
No.
Subject Duration
hours
21. Economic & Social development in 
Sri lanka
 03
22.  administration 03
(a) Office systems & Organizational Methods
(b) Establishments code (V olume i & V olume ii)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2295
PaRt ii
Subject   
No.
Subject Duration
hours
23. Elementary constitutional law and 
international law
03
24.   diplomatic Practice                     03
25.   international affairs 03
foREiGN laNGuaGES
Subject   
No.
Subject Duration
hours
07. arabic 02         
08. french 02         
09. Russian 02         
10. Spanish           02         
11 Hindi     02         
12 chinese 02         
13 German 02         
14 Japanese      02         
15 italian 02         
16 Korean 02         
   SEcoNd laNGuaGES
Subject   
No.
Subject Duration
hours
30 Sinhala (Written) 02
31 tamil (Written) 02
32 English (Written) 02
33 Sinhala (oral)
34 tamil (oral)
35 English (oral)
05. the attention of the Officers sitting for these 
Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to the Paragraph 5 of 
the treasury circular No. 701 dated 04 th September 1966 
which is reproduced below:
“departmental examinations (including Promotional 
and Efficiency Bar Examinations) - The medium 
for Promotional Examinations as well as Efficiency 
Bar Examinations should be the language in which 
the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to 
enter the Public Service or the Official Language.  In 
case where initial recruitment has been taken place 
without a competitive examination, the medium for 
Promotional/Efficiency Bar Examination should be 
the language in which the officer was qualified for 
entry into the Public Service or the Official Language.”
05.1  Issuance of Results:
 
 candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or 
above for each subject for a pass. two separate 
result sheets, containing results of individual 
candidates, pertaining to both first & Second 
Efficiency Bar Examination will be sent to 
Secretary foreign affairs by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
06. arrangements will be made by the commissioner-
General of Examinations for the candidates to answer the 
question papers in Sinhala, tamil or English, except for the 
question papers on foreign languages.  Medium applied to 
sit for the exam cannot be changed.
07. if a candidate is later found to have sat in a medium 
in which he is not entitled to sit, his candidature will be 
cancelled.
08. application forms should be prepared in an a-4 size 
paper as per the specimen appended to this notification, 
containing items 1-8 on the first page and the rest on the 
second page. Both sides of the paper should be used.  
Applications should be filled clearly in applicant's own 
handwriting.  applications prepared in Sinhala and tamil 
medium should also bear the name of the examination in 
English.  candidates appearing for both Examination should 
submit separate applications in respect of each Examination. 
 
Since the applications which are not in conformity with 
the specimen and not provided with the required details will 
be rejected without notification. The applicants are advised 
to keep a photocopy of the application. Before sending 
the application, the applicant should verify whether the 
completed application is in conformity with the specimen 
form given in the notification regarding the examination and 
all the details have been included in it and the receipt has 
been affixed to it.
08.1. Penalty for furnishing false information:-y ou 
should be careful to provide correct information 
in perfecting the application. according to the 
laws and regulations, if an applicant is found to 
be ineligible at any time before, during or after 
the examination his/her candidature is liable to 
be cancelled.
09. the examinations will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and the candidates 
will be bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by 
the commissioner General for conducting the examination. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2296
candidates are subject to the laws and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of the Examinations in relation 
to examination procedure and issuance of the results. in case 
of any violations of such laws and regulations, the candidate 
will be subject to a penalty imposed by the commissioner 
General of the Examinations.
10. all applicants should send their applications to the 
Human Resources and Mission Management division of 
the Ministry of foreign affairs for forwarding them to the 
commissioner General of the Examinations, on or before 
09th august 2019.  those who are serving in Sri lanka 
Missions abroad should send their applications through the 
relevant Heads of Mission.  any application received after 
the closing date will be rejected.
11. admission cards will be issued by the commissioner 
General of Examination to all the applicants who had 
submitted duly perfected applications on or before the 
closing date of applications and receipts for the payment 
of the required examination fees as per the notification 
attached, on the presumption that only those who possess 
the qualifications have applied. A notice will be published 
in newspapers and official website to that effect by the 
department of Examinations as soon as admission cards are 
issued. in case the admission card of any candidate is not 
received within 02 or 03 days after the appearance of the 
notification, it would be more effective to send a letter by 
fax to the Sri lanka department of Examinations along with 
the photocopies of the application forms and the receipt (if 
the payment of an examination fee is relevant) mentioning 
a fax number enabling the same department to fax a copy of 
the admission card to the candidate.
11.1  issuing an admission card to a candidate should 
not be considered as that he/she has fulfilled the 
required qualifications to sit for the examination 
or for the post.
11.2  the applicant should get his/her signature placed 
in the application and the admission card attested 
by the head of institution or an officer to whom 
the power is delegated by him.
12. Subsequent appeals by the candidates who fail to 
comply with the requirements as stipulated in paragraph 
11 above will not be entertained. candidates should sit for 
the examinatio n at the examination hall assigned to him/
her.  Every candidate who appears for the examination 
should produce to the Supervisor of the examination hall, 
candidates who have failed to produce his/her admission 
card will not be allowed to sit for the examination.
13. the following are the documents of identity 
acceptable at the examination centre:
 (i) National identity card,
 (ii) Valid Passport,
 (iii) Valid driving licence.
14. the candidates who sit for the examination for the 
first time are exempted from the examination fees, while in 
the case of the subsequent sittings fees will be levied on the 
following basis;
 (a) first sitting (whole examination or part thereof): 
free of charge
 (b) Each subsequent sitting :  
 Rs.  cts.
  complete examination 1,200 00
  one Subject 600 00
  oral test  300 00
the receipt obtained for the payment of fees at any post 
office/sub post office in the island or at a Foreign Mission/
Post to the credit of to Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the 
Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed 
firmly to the application in the place provided.
you are kindly informed that no fees other than the 
examination fees will be charged. Money orders or stamps 
will not be accepted for the payment of examination fees. 
under no circumstances will the examination fees be 
rejected or transferred in respect of another examination. it 
will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
15. the decision of the Public Service commission will 
be final with regard to any matter that has not been mentioned 
in this notification.  The decision of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations will be the final with regard to the 
examinations.
16. in case of any divergence or inconsistency among 
different texts of this notification published in Sinhala, 
tamil and English languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 
ra vINatha aryaSINha,
 Secretary,
 foreign affairs.
Ministry of foreign affairs,
Republic Building,
colombo 01.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2297
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM
MINIStry of foreIgN affaIrS
                                                              For office use only   
1St aNd 2Nd EfficiENcy BaR ExaMiNatioNS aNd 
SEcoNd laNGuaGE tESt foR tHE officERS of 
tHE SRi laNKa foREiGN SERVicE – 2018 (2019)
the medium in which the candidate is appearing for the 
examination :
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
 Sinhala -     2
 t amil -     3                     
 English -     4
01.  the examination applied for 
       (Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
examination Relevant No.
Efficiency Bar 1 1
Efficiency Bar 2 2
Second language 3
foreign language 4
02.  (i) Name in full (in English  block capitals) :––––––––. 
 (eg; HERatH MudiyaNSElaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa) 
  (ii)  last name with initials :–––––––––.
   (in English block capitals. Put the initials after the 
last name Eg. GuNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.)
 (iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––.
03.  address (for the dispatch of the admission card) :–––––.
 (in English block capitals)
04.  date of Birth:
 date:                Month:              y ear:
05. National identity card No.
06. Mobile telephone No. : 
07. Sex:
 (Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
 Male     – 0
 female – 1
08. date of appointment to the Sri lanka foreign Service
 date: Month:  y ear:
09. Present post :––––––––––.
10. Subjects offered should be clearly stated with the subject 
numbers given in paragraph 04 of the notification.  
(applicants will be allowed to sit only for subjects 
indicated in the application.)
Subject Subject No.
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v. 
vi.
11. State whether the applicant has appeared for the whole 
examination or part thereof previously. if so, state the 
index number, subjects, year and month :––––––––––.
i, declare that the information furnished above is accurate 
and that, i am eligible to sit for this examination in the 
language medium indicated above.  further, i abide by 
the rules and regulations laid down by the commissioner 
General of Examinations with regard to the conduct of the 
examination.
the receipt No. …………………….. for payment of 
examination fee is annexed.
fee paid :Rs. ……………………….
   
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Examination fees :
 (i) Post office/sub post office/Foreign Diplomatic 
Mission where the examination fee was paid.               
––––––––––.
 (ii) amount paid :––––––––––.
 (iii) date :––––––––––.
 (iv) Receipt number : ––––––––––.
 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2298
commissioner General of Examinations,
i, do hereby certify that the information furnished above 
is accurate and that Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………..
is eligible to appear for this examination in the language 
medium indicated by him/her. i also attest the applicant’s 
signature and the examination fees have been paid and the 
receipt is attached herewith. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and designation of the 
                                                  Head of department.
date :–––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
Appendix “A”
SiNHala
the written paper will be of a 02 hours duration and 
candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or above for a 
pass in this paper. 
 it will contain questions on:
 (i) Grammar
 (ii) t ranslation of the petitions or Grama Niladhari’s 
reports written in Sinhala into English.
 (iii) Translation of an official letter or a document in 
English into Sinhala
 the oral test will consist of the following:
 (i) Interpret an official material written in English to 
Sinhala, so that it could be understood and taken 
down in writing by a Sinhala speaking person.
 (ii) Reading a petition in Sinhala.
 (iii) conversation and interpretation
  the purpose of the test will be to assess the 
candidates’ability of understand the Sinhala 
language as it is spoken by different native 
speakers and of making him/herself understood 
both in common conversation and in the course 
of usual official business.
taMil
the test in tamil will consist of a written part and an 
oral part.
the written paper will be of a 02 hour duration and 
candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or above in 
this paper for a pass.  it will contain questions on:
 (i) Grammar
 (ii) translation of petitions or Grama Niladhari’s 
reports written in tamil into English.
 (iii) Translation of an official letter or a document in 
English into tamil.
the oral test will consist of the following:
 (i) Interpret to Tamil an official material written in 
English to tamil, so that could be understood and 
taken down in writing by a tamil speaking person.
 (ii) Reading a petition written in tamil.
 (iii) conversation and interpretation.
  the purpose of the test will be to assess the 
candidates’ ability to understand the tamil 
language as it is spoken by different native 
speakers and of making him/herself understood 
both in common conversation and in the course of 
usual official business.
ENGliSH
the English paper will be of a 02 hour duration and the 
candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or above in this 
paper for a pass.  it will contain questions on:
 (i) Grammer
 (ii) comprehension
 (iii) Precis writing
 (iv) Report and letter writing
 (v) V ocabulary
  a  prototype of the question paper is given 
below for the information of the candidates.
PaRt a
(a) fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb 
given within brackets:-

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2299
during the last war our country ………. 1 (be) 
a British colony ………….2 (take) a full part in 
the war effort.  consequently our tea, rubber and 
coconut ……………………… 3 (ship) to Britain 
at very favourable prices and the foreign exchange 
we ………………. 4 (earn) ……………………… 
5 (accumulate) as assets.  again during the 
Korean war in the early fifties our products 
…………………. 6 (fetch) good prices and we 
……………………….. 7 (not have) any exchange 
problem. …………….. However, political 
independence …………………….. 8 (not given 
rise) to any effort to …………………… 9 (build up) 
our economy we …………………………. 10 (be) 
a nation of consumers and we …………………… 
11 (Squander) our foreign exchange on consumer 
goods which ………………………… 12 (can 
produce) locally and incidentally diversified our 
economy.  over the last decade we ………………. 
13 (begin) to feel the pinch whenour primary 
products …………………. 14 (fail) to command 
good prices in the world market while our 
requirements of food both rice and subsidiary food 
stuffs ……………………….. 15 (rise) in price.
(b) fill in the blanks with the correct preposition 
(where necessary):
as assistant Secretary ……………. 16 
charge ……………....... 17 subjects. it was 
my duty to convene groups of officers dealing 
…………………………. 18 different aspects 
of development work in the Ministry …………. 
19 time to time.  they discussed ……………… 
20 various problems that they confronted and 
which they could not cope ……………………… 
21 on their own.  We were thus able to share our 
experience ………………………… 22 each other 
and make concrete proposals ……………….. 
23 the Secretary every month.  He in turn put 
……………………….. 24 his own plans for 
discussion ………………. 25 these meetings.
(c) underline the correct letters given within brackets 
that would complete the spelling of the following 
words:
 26 Har……………ment (rass/as/ass).
 27 Ember…………….(rass/as/ass).
 28 t ol………………….(arreance/erance/erence)
 29 Par………………..arian(liament/limen/liment)
 30 Bal…………………..ing (let/lat/lot)
 31 itin……………………. (erary/array/erarie)
 32 Pers…………(everance/everence/ewerence)
 33 Bour……………… (geoise/joursie/juwarsy)
 34 Prolet ……………………….. (ariet/ariat/eriyat)
 35 com………………ate (memorr/emor/memor)
(a) in each of the following statements underline the 
correct word within brackets:-
36 the inventory was checked by the Board of 
(Survellance/Survey/Surveyors).
37 At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the 
accused officer had (contradicted/ contravened/
contaminated) the regulations.
38 Every receipt should have a (counterfoil/ 
counterfeit/ counterpane) for the purpose of 
audit.
39 there was a possibility that the prosecution 
had (fabricated/fumigated/promulgate) the 
evidence.
40 (discrete/discretionary/discriminatory) power 
was given to the Head of the department under 
the relevant act.
41 the Police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush 
until the bribe taker arrived.
42 The entire staff turned upon (facilitate/ infiltrate/
felicitate) the watcher on his retirement.
43 in times of national crises we must avoid                                                        
(luxuriant/ luxurious) habits.
44 Martial music was played over the radio during 
height of the battle to keep up the (moral/
morale/morals) of the people.
45 candidates are advised to use (Stationary / 
Stationery) sparingly owning to the acute paper 
shortage.
(e)  underline the correct phrase in the brackets that 
means the same as the word or phrase underlined in 
each sentence.
46 in good management the boss should, support 
his staff in their work (back out/ back up/ back 
away)
47 the sales and replacement of stock amounted to 
over Rs. 5,000 (turn out/ turn up/ turn away).

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2300
48 We were warned at the start not to let out work 
get into arrears (set out/outset)
49 They younger son wasted his father’s wealth in 
a few years. (ran over/ran through)
50 I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred 
me from going (put away/put off).
Part B
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the 
questions set out below:
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, 
liberty, constitutional government, and respect for the law or 
at least the definitions of them began with the reflection of 
Greek thinkers upon the institutions of city State.  But in the 
long history of political thought the meaning of such terms 
has been variously modified and always the meaning has to 
be understood in the light of the institutions by which the 
indicates were to be realized and of the society in which 
those institutions did their work.  the Greek city States was 
so different from the political communities in which modern 
men live that it requires no small effort of the imagination to 
picture its social and political life.  the Greek Philosophers 
were thinking of political practices far different from any 
that have prevailed commonly in modern world, and the 
whole climate of opinion in which the work was done was 
different.  their problems though not without their analogies 
in the preset, were never identical with modern problems, and 
the ethical apparatus by which political life was evaluated 
and criticized varied widely from and that now prevails.  
in order to understand at all accurately what their theories 
meant is necessary first to realize at least roughly what 
kind of institutions they had in view and what citizenship 
connected, as an effect and as an ideal to the public for whom 
they wrote.  for this purpose the Government of athens-is 
especially important, partly because it is the best known, but 
chiefly because it was an object of special concern to the 
greatest of Greek Philosophers.
as compared with modern states the ancient city-State 
was exceedingly small both in area and in population.  the 
numbers were exceedingly uncertain but a figure somewhat 
in excess of three hundred thousand would be approximately 
correct.  Such an arrangement of a small territory dominated 
by a single city was typical off the city State.
in each of the following cases, choose the alternative 
which in your opinion supports the views expressed in the 
above passage.  Place a tick (right mark) against the correct 
answer –
51 Athens in significant for the students of Greek political 
thought mainly because –
(a) it was the most powerful of the Greek city States
(b) it’s ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks 
themselves
(c) it had the most ideal form of Government
(d) it is the best known of the Greek city-States
52 Greek political thought was concerned with problems
 (a) entirely unrelated to
 (b) identical withy
 (c) different from analogous but to 
53 the moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is 
(a) very similar to modern moral and religious ideas
(b) unknown
(c) very different from modern moral and religious 
ideas
54 it is
 (a) easy
 (b) not at all easy
 (c) impossible
55 in comparison with the ancient Greek city States are 
 (a) very large
 (b) very small
 (c) about the same size
56 the population of an ancient Greek city States was
 (a) much less than 300,000
 (b) over 3 million
 (c) just over 300,000
57 the city-State of athens comparisons
 (a) a small territory governed by a singly city
 (b) a large territory governed by a number of cities
 (c) a small territory with village councils
 (d)  a large territory with a  decentralized   
  administration
58 at different times in the history of the world people 
 (a) have thought in basically the same way
 (b) have thought in different ways
 (c) have contradicted the views of people of the  
 previous generation
59 details of political theory are derived from Greek 
Political thought
 (a) because the Greek city States was very similar  
 to modern states
 (b)  in spite of Greek city State being very different  
 from modern States
 (c) because modern political theorists are students  
 of Greek Philosophy

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2301
60 the meaning of political ideal at a particular moment 
in European History since the time of the Greeks can 
be defined only be
 (a)  Relating it to its context
 (b) t racing it back to its original meaning among 
the Greeks
 (c) investigating the meaning of the Greek word 
for it
 (d) t aking into account only those features in it 
which have persisted throughout its history.
61 Write sentences using each of the following words so 
as to bring out its meaning clearly:-
 arbitration, emoluments, etiquette, consolidates, 
hypothetical, retrospective, exigencies, evaluate, 
review, empower.
EitHER
62 Write a letter to the Head of an Educational institute in 
an English speaking country, setting out the following 
information in an orderly manner:
 (i)  The equivalence of our examination certificate 
to the certificate specified in this letter cannot be 
determined as the examining authorities in Sri 
lanka have not been consulted by the institution 
concerned in that country
 (ii)  the G.c.E. (ordinary level) credit Pass has 
been officially equated with an Ordinary Pass in 
london G.c.E. (ordinary level)
 (iii)  the receipt of the letter sent to the commissioner 
of Examinations is acknowledged
 (iv)  any further information in this matter may be 
obtained from the Embassy of the Republic of 
Sri lanka in that country
63 Write a memorandum to the Secretary, Bureau of 
Standards making out a case for the adoption of the 24 
hours clock in this country stating the advantages of 
such a measure.
Appendix “B”
1. 1S t  EfficiENcy  BaR  ExaMiNatioN
1.1 The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination will 
consist of two parts and the officers may take 
both parts at one sitting or separately.
1.2 an examinati on will be conducted in the 
following subjects :
PaRt i
(i) finance – this paper is based on the following:
(a) financial Regulations of the Government 
of Sri lanka, Part i (Except chapter x)
(b) the estimates for the current year
eg. their arrangement, the heads 
of revenue, financial mothods and 
appropriation acts.
(c) Ordinance relating to specific accounts 
maintained by the Kachcheries.
(ii)   History and Geography of Sri lanka.
PaRt ii – SPEcial PaPERS
 (i) Elementary constitutional law and 
international law
 (ii) diplomatic Practice
 (iii) international affairs
 (iv) the Sri lanka foreign Service Minute, 
foreign Ministry Regulations and computer 
literacy.
1.3. Each of the above papers will be of a three hour 
duration and the candidates are required to obtain 
40% marks or above in each paper for a pass.
1.4 An officer will be permitted to sit each paper 
separately on any number of occasions and will be 
deemed to have passed the respective paper when 
he/she has obtained the qualifying marks.
 2. 2Nd  EfficiENcy  BaR  ExaMiNatioN
     2.1 The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination will consist 
of two parts and officers may take both parts at one 
sitting or separately.
     2.2 the examination will be conducted in the following 
subjects.
PaRt i
(i) Economic and Social development in Sri 
lanka 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'07'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.07.2019
2302
(ii) administration – this paper is based on the 
following:
(a) Office systems and organizational 
methods
(b) Establishments code – V olume i and 
V olume ii.
PaRt ii – SPEcial PaPERS
 (i) Elementary constitutional law and international 
law
 (ii) diplomatic practice 
 (iii) international affairs
2.3 Each of the above papers will be of a three hour 
duration and the candidates are required to obtain 
40% marks or above in each paper for a pass.
2.4 An officer will be permitted to sit each paper 
separately on any number of occasions and will be 
deemed to have passed the respective paper when 
he/she has obtained the qualifying marks.
 Note:
(i) Questions on Constitutional Law 
will be mainly on the evolution of the 
parliamentary System of government of 
Sri lanka, with special reference to the 
constitution of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka.   
(ii) Questions on the International Law 
will include inter – state relations, 
both bilateral and multilateral and the  
diplomatic law and the law of treaties.
(iii) An officer who is an Attorney-at-Law 
or who has obtained a degree in law 
from a recognized university will be 
exempted from the paper on Elementary 
constitutional law and international 
law provided that, he/she has secured 
a pass in those subjects at the relevant 
Examination.
3. foREiGN laNGuaGES
 3.1   foreign languages
    (i)  arabic 
 (ii)  french 
 (iii) Russian           
 (iv) Spanish 
 (v) Hindi
 (vi) chinese
 (vii) German
 (viii) Japanese
 (ix) italian
   (x)   Korean
 3.2  a foresaid each written question paper on 
foreign languages will be of two hour duration.  
candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or 
above in each paper for a pass.
07-687
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.