

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1397 
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1396
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"234 – 2021 cqks ui 25 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'06'25
No. 2,234 –  fRiday,  juNE  25, 2021
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE ”
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th july, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd july, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1393 - B 82243 - 5,403 (06/2021)      
N. B.–  Part i:iii, ii, iii, iV(a) and iV(B) of the Gazette No. 2,233 of 18.06.2021 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.06.2021
1394
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
january 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.06.2021
1395
RuLES  AND INSTRuCTIONS  fOR ExAmINATION  CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 II. Disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. In case the supervisor or the examination staff  
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. It is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.06.2021
1396
Posts – vacant
STATE mINISTR y Of CONTAINER  WAREhOuSE  fACILITIES , CONTAINER  yARDS, PORT 
SuPPLy fACILITIES  AND bOATS AND ShIPPING  INDuSTR y DEvELOPmENT  
APPLICATIONS are called by qualified and experienced citizens of Sri Lanka for the following posts which are to be 
appointed on a temporary basis for the media division of the State Ministry of Warehouse facilities, container yards, Port 
Supply facilities and boats and Shipping industry development. 
Post :  Still Photographer - No. of posts - 01
  Video cameraman - No. of posts - 01
Nature of Post : temporary. 
Salary : a monthly allowance of Rs. 29,840 and a cost of living allowance of Rs. 7,800.
Educational Qualifications.– Passed G. c. E. ordinary Level examination within two attempts with 06 passes and 
04 credits. 
Professional qualifications.– should have been awarded a certificate having followed a course not below NVQ 
level 05 in photography and camera techniques.
Post : cameraman assistant - No. of posts - 01
Nature of post : temporary.
Salary : a monthly allowance of Rs. 24,250 and a cost of living allowance of Rs. 7,800.
Educational Qualifications.– Passed G. c. E. ordnary level examination within two attempts with 06 passes and 
04 credits. 
Professional qualifications.– Professional qualifications obtained in the relevant field would be considered as an 
added qualification. 
Age.– Should be not less than 18 years and not above 45 years. 
Method of recruitment .– The person with the maximum qualification obtained in a qualification assessment 
interview would be recruited. 
Other qualifications : 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) applicants should have an excellent character,
 (iii) All qualifications necessary for the recruitment to the posts to be completed as at the date stated in the 
notice calling for applications, should have been completed in every aspect.
duly completed applications together with detailed curriculum vitae supported by couple of education and 
professional qualifications, experiences should be sent to reach the following address on or before 16.07.2021 in a sealed 
envelope stating the specific position on the top left of the envelope. Applications sent after closing date, unsigned and those 
without certificates will be rejected. 
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of Warehouse facilities, container yards, 
  Port Supply facilities and Boats and Shipping industry development. 
Leyden Bastian Road, 
colombo 01,
25th june, 2021. 
06–426

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.06.2021
1397
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
mINISTR y Of LAbOuR
The Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to the Post of Stenographer (Sinhala) 
Grade III in The Office of the Commissioner for 
Workmen's Compensation - 2021
aPPLicatioNS  are invited from suitably qualified Sri 
Lankans to fill 03 vacancies in the post of Stenographer 
(Sinhala) Grade iii in the Office of the Commissioner for 
Workmen's compensation.
2.0 Appointment.– Applicants who fulfill the qualifications 
based on a written test and a vocational test conducted by 
the National institute of Labour Studies upon a request by 
the Secretary of the Ministry of Labour will be recruited on 
the order of merit.
3.0 Salary Scale.– in terms of the Public administration 
circular 03/2016, the monthly salary scale applicable to this 
post is MN-1-2016-Rs. 27,140-10 x 300-11 x 350-10 x 495-
10 x 660 - Rs. 45,540.
4.0 Conditions of service :
4.1 this appointment is permanent and pensionable. 
Provided that, the officers are bound by 
any policy decision taken in future by the 
government as regards the pensions. they 
shall contribute to the Widows' and orphans/ 
Widowers' and orphans' Pension Scheme. 
Further, this post is subject to a probationary 
period of three (03) years.
4.2 All officers recruited to the post should obtain 
proficiency in the other Official Languages 
within three years from the date of appointment 
in terms of the Public administrative circular 
18/2020.
4.3 The place of work is Office of the Commissioner 
for Workmen's compensation located on 07th 
floor of the Labour Secretariat Building. 
colombo 05 and duties have to be performed 
as and when necessary in mobile labour courts 
located across the country. 
4.4 The first Efficiency Bar Should be passed 
before the expiry of three years from the date 
of recruitment.
4.5 Selected  applicants  shall  be  appointed  
to the  post  of  Stenographer  Grade  iii 
subject  to  general conditions  governing  the  
appointments  in Public Service,  procedural  
rules of the  Public Services commission,  
provisions  of the  Establishments  code  and  
financial  Regulations  and  amendments  
made thereto from time to time, other orders 
of the Ministry/institution  and the terms and 
conditions set out in the recruitment of scheme 
approved by the Public Services commission 
and amendments that  will be made thereto in 
due course.
5.0 Qualifications :
5.1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
5.2 Should be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years of age as at the closing date of 
applications .
5.3 Should be of excellent moral character.
5.4 Educational Qualifications :
 (i) Should have passed the General 
Certificate of Examinat ion (ordinary 
Level) Examination with six (06) 
subjects with credit passes to First 
Language (Sinhala/English/t amil) and 
Mathematics and two other subjects in 
one sitting;
  and
 (ii) Should have passed at least one (01) 
subject at the General Certificate 
of Examinat ion (advanced Level) 
Examination (other than the common 
General test and General English under 
the new syllabus.
5.5 Professional Qualifications :
 Should have successfully completed a six (06) 
month course in Stenography and computer 
typesetting in an institution approved by the 
tertiary and V ocational Education commission 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.06.2021
1398
and obtained a certificate or should have obtained a credit pass for the subject of Typing and Stenography at the 
General Certificate of Examination (ordinary Level) Examination.
Note:- the institutions approved for Stenography and computer typesetting by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission are given below.
• Technical Colleges and Colleges of Technology belonging to the Department of Technical 
Education training
• Training centres belonging to the National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
• Training centres belonging to the National Youth Council
• Training centres belonging to the V ocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka
5.6 Physical Qualifications :
 Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
5.7 Date on which qualifications should be fulfilled :
 Should have fulfilled all the qualifications set out in 5 above in every way as at 28.07.2021 which is the closing 
date of applications.
6.0  Method of Recruitment.– the recruitment to this post will be carried out totally under the open stream which consists 
of a written test and a vocational test.
6.1 Written test :
 the written test will be conducted by the National institute of Labour Studies. .
 6.1.1  Details ofthe test :
Question Paper Time Maximum marks Pass mark
i. General Knowledge and essay 1 hour 100 40
6.1.2 Syllabus :
  Testing general knowledge on current local and international affairs, writing an essay under a selected 
topic from amongst topics of timely importance (the candidate's ability of expression, language 
competence/ grammatical accuracy and spelling will be will be given priority)
6.2  Vocational test :
 the vocational test will be conducted by the National institute of Labour Studies.
Question Paper Time Maximum marks Pass mark
Stenography and computer typesetting (Practical) Sinhala - 100 40
6.2.2 Syllabus :
 taking down a passage dictated within 05 minutes  at a speed of 70 words per minute, and transcribing the 
notes at a speed of 07 words per minute. typing at a speed of 20 words per minute (a paragraph of 20 minutes)
07. How vacancies are filled.– applicants who receive the highest marks at the written test and the vocational test will be 
recruited according to the  number of vacancies  on the  order  of merit  after an  interview for  verification of qualifications. 
Since this examination is an open competitive examination,the applicants should obtain at least a minimum of forty percent 
of marks (40%) allocated for each test. No marks will be awarded at the interview to be conducted and it is only for the 
verification of qualifications .

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.06.2021
1399
08. examination fees.– the  examination  fee  is                                 
Rs. 500/=. the  examination  fee  should  be  paid to  
People's  Bank,  Narahenpita Branch to the  credit  of the  
credit  of the  Ministry  of  Labour  No: 119-1001-59025666  
and the  receipt obtained shall be affixed to the application 
so as not to be detached. the examination fee paid shall not 
be refunded under any circumstances . it may be·useful to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt.
09. Preparing applications :
9.1 the application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification and 
should be prepared on paper of size a-4 using 
both sides, and
(a) item number 01 to 03 should be in the first 
page and the remainder should be in the 
other pages and it should be clearly filled 
in candidate's own hand writing,
(b) applications which are not in conformity 
with the prescribe specimen form and those 
for which examinations fees have not been 
paid on due date will be rejected without 
any notice being given.the applicant 
should bear the loss for failing to duly 
complete the application. it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the application and it is 
the responsibility of the applicant to make 
sure that the application form prepared by 
him/her complies with the specimen given 
in the examination notice, as otherwise the 
application may be rejected.
9.2 the examination will only be held in colombo 
on 05th September 2021.
9.3 the director General of the National institute 
of Labour Studies will allow candidates whose 
applications have been received on or before 
the application closing date after paying the due 
examination fees to sit the examination on the 
assumption that only those who have satisfied 
the qualifications mentioned in the notification 
have applied for the examination . issuance 
of an admission card to an applicant does not 
necessarily mean that he/she has the required 
qualifications to sit for the examination . if it 
is revealed that the candidates have submitted 
false information or do not possess requisite 
qualifications on the occasion of verifying the 
qualifications after inviting candidates for an 
interview as per the gazette  notification, their 
candidature will be cancelled.
9.4 Submission of Applications :
 Applications duly filled should be sent by 
registered post to reach the address "director 
General, National institute of Labour Studies, 
Second floor, Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita, 
colombo 05 on or before 28.07.2021. the 
words "Open Competitive Examination for 
recruitment to the post of Stenographer 
(Sinhala) Grade Ill in the Office of the 
Commissioner for Workmen's Compensation 
-2021" should be clearly written on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope in which 
the application is enclosed . No complaints 
regarding applications lost or delayed in the 
post will be entertained.
9.5 applicant's  signature  in the  application  form  
should  have  been  attested  by  a  Principal  of  
a Government   School,  a   justice   of   Peace,  
a   commissioner   for   oaths,  a   Notary   
Public, Commissioned  Officer  in the  Armed  
Forces,  an  Officer  holding a  Gazetted  post  
in the  Police Service or an Officer ·holding 
a permanent post in Staff Grade in the Public 
Service.
9.6 Punishment for the provision of false 
information :
 When filling the application, the candidates 
should exercise caution and only accurate 
information  should  be  provided.  if  a  
candidate  is found  to  be  not  eligible  to  
sit  for this examination in accordance with 
regulations applicable to the examination, his /
her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any 
stage prior to, during or after the examination . 
if any information furnished by a candidate is 
found to be false after the post is received, he/
she may be dismissed from the Public Service.
10. admission to the Examination.– admission cards will 
be issued by the director General of the National  institute 
for Labour Studies to reach the applicants one week before 
the date of the examination, i.e. 05.09.2021. Permission will 
not be granted to sit the examination with an admission card. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.06.2021
1400
applicants should get the signature placed in the admission 
card relevant to the examination centre attested and present 
it to the head of the examination hall.
if the admission card is not received one week before 
05.09 .2021 which is the date of the examination, it should be 
brought to the notice of the director General of the National 
institute of Labour Studies by contacting telephone numbers 
011 2786541/ 011 2786542. it would be advisable submit 
a copy of the receipt relevant to payment of examination 
fee and the receipt of registration of the application to the 
National institute of Labour Studies together with your 
inquiry.
11. applicants should submit one of the following 
identification documents to the supervisor of the examination 
hall for the confirmation of their identity.
 i. National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons
 ii. Valid Passport
 ill. Valid driving license
12. applicants  shall  be  bound  by the  rules  and  regulations  
imposed  by  the  National  institute  of Labour  Studies  for  
the  purpose  of  conducting  the  examination.  if an applicant  
violates  these rules,he/she is liable for a punishment 
imposed by the director General of the National institute of 
Labour Studies. 
13. The final decision with regard to the conduct of the 
examination, granting appointments and all other matters 
shall lie with the Secretary of the Ministry of Labour.
Note: Please note that the Sinhala text shall prevail 
in the event of any inconsistency  or 
contradiction between the Sinhala ,tamil 
and English texts of this notification.
 M.P.d.u.K. Mapa Pathirana,
 Secretary.
on 06th day of june 2021
Ministry of Labour,
Narahenpita,
colombo 05.
SPEciMEN   aPPLicatioN  foRM
For office use only
The Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment To The Post Of Stenographer (Sinhala) Grade III in 
the Office Of the Commissioner For Workmen's Compensation - 2021
1.0  details of the applicant:
  1.1  Name with initials:  .............................................................................................................................................
   (in English block letters) (Eg: PERERa a.B.c.)
  1.2 Name in full: Mr/Mrs/ Miss: ...............................................................................................................................
   (in English block letters)
  1.3  Name in full : ......................................................................................................................................................
   (in Sinhala)  
  1.4  National identity card Number :
2.0  2.1 Gender :- Male -1 female-0                              (Write the relevant number in the cage)
  2.2 Permanent address : ............................................................................................................................................
   (in English block letters)
  2.3 Permanent address : ............................................................................................................................................
   (in Sinhala)
  2.4 the address to which the admission of the examination should be sent:
    i. (in  Sinhala):  ............................................................................................................................................
    ii. in English block  letters : ..........................................................................................................................

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'25
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.06.2021
1401
  2.5 t elephone  Number: ............................................................................................................................................
  2.6 Email : ..................................................................................................................................................................
3.0  3.1 Whether married or single:Single -1 Married-2                 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
  3.2 date of Birth : year :                                     Month :                      date :
  3.3 age as at the closing date of applications:  years :                                Months :                      days :
  3.4  Whether of Sri Lanka by descent or by  registration? : ........................................................................................
4.0 Educational qualifications :
  4.1 G.c.E.(ordinary Level) Examination :
  (i) y ear and month of the examination :year :................. Month : ...................
  (ii) index No. : .......................
  (iii) Results :
Subjects Passed Grade Subjects Passed Grade
(1) (6)
(2) (7)
(3) (8)
(4) (9)
(5) (10)
  4.2 G.c.E.(advanced Level) Examination :
  (i) y ear and month of the examination :year :................. Month : ...................
  (ii) index No. : .......................
  (iii) Results :
Subjects Passed Grade
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
5.0  Professional qualifications :
Name of the course Institution Duration Results
 6.0  Have you ever been convicted by a court of law for any offence? (Please mark in the relevant box)
  y es                                 No
 if so convicted, g ive details of the offence,the court by which you were convicted and.the nature of punishment .

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'06'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.06.2021
1402
7.0 d etails of the payment of examination fee:
(i) Name of the branch of Bank of ceylon to which
examination fee was paid: ...................................
(ii) Receipt number and date : Number: ............... 
date: ......................
(iii) amount paid : ................................
Paste one edge of the receipt securely in this cage
8.0  declaration of the applicant:
(a) i  do hereby declare that the information
furnished by me in this application is true
and accurate to the best of my knowledge . i
also agree to bear any loss caused by not duly
completing/falsely completing any part of this
application. further, i certify that all sections of
this application been filled accurately.
(b) i  agree to be bound by the rules and regulations
of the examination imposed by the director
General of the National institute of Labour
Studies and the decision taken to cancel my
candidacy of the examination before or after the
examination if it is disclosed that 
i am ineligible
in terms of the conditions herein.
(c) i  am also aware that if any particulars contained
herein are found to be false before appointment,
I am liable to be disqualified and if so found
after appointment 
i am liable to be dismissed.
...............................................,
Signature of the applicant.
date:.........................
9.0 attestation of the Signature of the applicant :
i, certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss. .................................
............ who submits this application is personally known 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  Go VERNMEN t  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
to me, that he/she placed his/her signature before me on 
...................... .
...........................................,
Signature and official seal of Attesting Officer.
date : .....................................
Name of the Attesting Officer : .............................
designation : .......................................
address :..........................................
06–347
–––––––––––––––––––
ThE DEPARTmENT COmmERCE Of ThE 
mINISTR y Of TRADE 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Assistant Director of Commerce 
Grade III Execetive Service 
tHE Public Service commission has approved the following 
amendment to the open competitive Examination for 
recruitment to the Post of assistant director of commerce 
Grade iii Executive Service published in the Gazette of 
the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 2227 of 
07.05.2021.
aMEN dMENt 
the closing date for applications for the above 
examination mentioned in Section 09(V ii) of the above 
notification is extended up to 15.07.2021.
Further, the maximum age limit specified in Section 
05 of the notification should be corrected as (Applicants 
should not be less than twenty one (21) years and not 
more than thirty five (35) years of age on the closing date 
of applications. (
accordingly, on the candidates who have 
the dates of birth on or after 04.06.1986 and on or before 
04.06.2000 are eligible to apply).
 j. M. B. Jayawardana,
Secretary,
 trade Ministry.
department of commerce, 
on 23rd june, 2021. 
06–427