

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1065
1065
wxl 1"565 - 2008 wf.daia;= 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2008'08'29
No. 1,565 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 29, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1068
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1073
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th September, 2008, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 22nd August, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II (A) of the Gazette No. 1,564 of 22.08.2008  was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1066
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1067
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1068
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th September, 20 08.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/3A, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th July, 2008.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called applications should be sent
1. Anuradhapura Thambuththegama Post of Marriage (Kandian/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
General) Registrar in General, District Secretariat,
Thambuththegama Division Anuradhapura.
and Births and Deaths in the
Mudungoda Division.
2. Anuradhapura Thambuththegama Post of Marriage (Kandian/ - Do. -
General) Registrar in
Thambuththegama Division
and Births and Deaths in the
Pahalagama Division.
3. Anuradhapura Palagala Post of Marriage (Kandian/ - Do. -
General) Registrar in
Kalagam Palatha Division
and Births and Deaths in the
Kiralawa Korale West Division
4. Anuradhapura Thirappane Post of Marriage (Kandian/ - Do. -
General) Registrar in
Hurulu Palatha Division
and Births and Deaths in the
Ulagalla Korale South Division
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1069
5. Anuradhapura Galenbindunuwewa Post of Marriage (Kandian/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
General) Registrar in General, District Secretariat,
Hurulu Palatha Division Anuradhapura.
and Births and Deaths in the
Seevalipura Division
08-812
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called applications should be sent
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
HAMBANTOTA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th September, 20 08.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/3A, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th July, 2008.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called applications should be sent
Hambanthota Suriyawewa Post of Marriage (General) District Secretary/ Additional
Registrar in Magam Pattuwa Registrar General
Division and Birth and Deaths District Secretariat,
in the Walakada North Division Hambanthota
08-813

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1070
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th September, 20 08.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/3A, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th July, 2008.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called applications should be sent
1. Puttalam Anamaduwa Post of Marriage (Kandian/ District Secretary/Additional
General) Registrar in Demala Registrar General
Hathpattuwa Division and District Secretariat, Puttalam.
Births and Deaths in the
Perawilipattuwa Division
2. Puttalam W ennappuwa Post of Marriage (General) -Do.-
Registrar in Pitigal Korale
South Division and Births
and Deaths in the Mudukatuwa Division
3. Puttalam W anathawilluwa Post of Marriage (General) - Do.-
Registrar in Kalpitiya Division and
Births and Deaths in the Pomparippu
West Division
4. Puttalam Mundalama Post of Marriage (General) - Do.-
Registrar in Hurulu Palatha Division and
Births and Deaths in the Kandathoduwawa
Sinnapadu South Division
5. Puttalam K alpitiya Post of Medical Registrar of Births - Do.
and Deaths in the Kalpitiya Division
08-814

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1071
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
KEGALLE DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th September, 20 08.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/3A, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th July, 2008.
Schedule
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kegalle Rambukkana Post of Medical Registrar of District Secretary/ Additional
Births and Deaths in Registrar General, District Secretariat
Rambukkana Town Division Kegalle.
08-815
————————————————
REGISTRAR  GENERAL ’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
MA TARA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1072
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 29th September, 20 08.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/3A, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
29th July, 2008.
Schedule
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called applications should be sent
Matara Welipitiya Post of Marriage (General) District Secretary/ Additional
Registrar in the Weligama Registrar General,
Korale and of Births and District Secretariat, Office,
Deaths in the Denipitiya Matara.
Division.
do. Mulatiyana Post of Registrar of Marriages -do.-
(General) in the Kandaboda
Pattuwa Division and Births and
Deaths in the Deiyandara
Division
do. Pasgoda Post of Registrar of Marriages -do.-
(General) in the Morawak Korale
Division and Births and
Deaths in the Beralapanatara
Division
do. Weligama Post of Registrar of Marriages -do.-
(General) in the Weligam
Korale  Division and of Births and
Deaths in the Mirissa
Division
08-816

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1073
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION FOR  RECRUITMETN  TO  CLASS  III  OF  SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE - 2007
IN this notification the term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration and Home affairs and the  term
“Service” means the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
01. Written Examination.- This examination will consist of following question papers.
(1) General Administration
(2) Financial Regulations
(3) Case Study
Date of Examination.- This examination will be held in Colombo (Number of the town - 01) and in Jaffna  (Number of the town
-02) on November 2008. The Secretary reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to instructions given by the Public
Services Commission. Accordingly candidates should indicate the town and number of the town in which they seek to sit the examination
in relevant cage of the application under no circumstance candidates are not allowed to change the town indicated in the applic ation.
Interview.- Secretary  will determine the date of the interview for candidates who have appeared for all the papers and secured
minimum of 40% marks in each paper and a sufficiently high agregate of marks as determined by the Public Service Commission.
02. Number of the persons to be appointed and the effective date of appointment will be determined on the order of the Public
Service Commission.
03. Conditions of Service.- A selected candidate will be appointed to Class III of the service on the General conditions governing
appointments in the Public Service and on the terms and conditions set out in the Minute of the Service dated 28.10.2005 published in the
Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005 and subject to any amendments
made or to be made to the Minute hereinafter.
3.1 Public Service Commission reserves the powers to cancel the appointment of any candidate who fails to assume
duties of the appointed post on due date and/or rejects or avoids serving in an area where he is appointed.
04. Structure and Monthly Salary Scale.-
Special Grade - Rs. 42,390-12x1310 - Rs. 58,110/-
Class I - Rs. 36,755 - 17x1050 -  Rs. 53,555/-
Class II - Rs. 30,175 - 8x790 -  Rs. 35,705/-
Class III - Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 -  Rs. 29,385/-
(Candidates are required to pass the 1st Efficiency and 2nd Efficiency Bar within 03 years  and 06 years from the date of
appointment respectively).
Recruitments will be made by this examination to Class III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
05. Eligibility.- Subject to the provisions in the note indicated at the end of this paragraph, a person will be eligible to sit the
Limited Competitive Examination if he/she either;
a. I. is a public officer confirmed in the following services/grades ; and
II. has not less than 10 years continuous permanent service in any one or more of such services/grades ; or
b. I. is a public officer confirmed in the following services/grades and has not less than 05 years continuous permanent
service in any one or more of such services/grades ; and
II. has obtained a degree from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Note.- (a) The effective date of the degree shall be a date on or before the closing date of the examination and candidates should
have satisfied qualifications indicated in 5 a (i) and (ii) or 5b(i) and (ii) above, on or before the above date.
(b) The candidate should be of an excellent moral character and physical fitness.
(c) No person who is ordained in any religious order shall sit the examination.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1074
Services and Grades  :
(i) An officer in any of the following Combined services under the control of the Director General of Combined Services.
Public Management Assistants’ Service, Translators, Librarian.
(ii) An officer in any of the following Clerical Services :
Postal, Railway, Parliamentary, Schools, Government Press, Health
(iii) An officer in any of the following Department Grade or who had been in such a Grade and subsequently absorbed to
a similar Grade in the Provincial Public Service.
Department/Ministry Grades
All Ministries Assistant Secretary (Non SLAS)
Public Relations Officer
Ministry of Youth Affairs Assistant Director (Sports)/District Sports
Ministry of Sports and Public Recreation Officer/Sports Officer
Ministry of Finance and Planning Department Projects Officer, Statistical Survey Officer,
of Policy Planning and Implementation Statistical Assistant, Plan & Implementation Officer
Department of Immigration & Emigration Senior Authorized Officer, Authorized Officer
Department of Registration of Persons Assistant Commissioner (Departmental)
Department of Census and Statistics Statistics Investigator
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine Hospital Secretary
Department of Ayurveda Investigations Officer
Ministry of Social Services & Social Welfare Assistant Director (Departmental)
Department of Social Services Superintendent of Welfare and Social Welfare,
Superintendent of State Homes for aged and infirmed, Social Services
Officer
Department of Probation and Childcare Head Master, Head Mistress, Probation Officer,
Hostel Warden, House Master, Home Mistress
Ministry of Lands & Land Development Lands officer/Disrict Lands Officer,
Land Commissioner’s Department (Departmental)/Land Utilization Planning
Officer/Kachcheri Surveyor/Colonization Officer
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs Grama Niladhari
Department of Official Languages Research Assistant, Translator
Ministry of Labour Relations and Manpower Assistant Commissioner (Departmental)
Ministry of Rural Industries and Self Industrial Assistant, General Manager, Manager
Employment Promotion Assistant, Economic Assistant, Technical Assistant
Department of Textile
Ministry of Healthcare & Nutrition Hospital Registrar, Planning & Program Officer,
Public Health Inspector, Registered and Assistant Medical
Practitioners.
Ministry of Local Government & Provincial Assistant Commissioner (Departmental), Local

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1075
Councils, Department of Provincial Councils Government Clerical Officers, Translator,
Shroff, Stenographer, Typist, Storekeeper
Ministry of Trade & Marketing Development Inspector of Weight and Measures, Price
and Consumer Affairs, Department of Control Inspector
Measurement Unit Standards and Services
Ministry of Agriculture Development and Agricultural Instructor, Divisional Officer,
Agrarian Services Assistant Commissioner (Departmental)
Department of Agriculture
Department of Agrarian Services
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms Translator, Publication Assistant, Stenographer
Department of Legal Draftsman
Supreme Court
Ministry of Transport Motor Traffic Inspector
Department of Motor Traffic
Ministry of Irrigation and Water Management Planning Assistant
Department of Irrigation
Ministry of Central Region Development Development Officer/Senior Supervisor of
Rural Development, Senior Rural Development
Assistant, Rural Development Officer, Rural Development Assistant
Ministry of Cultural Affairs Cultural Officers
National Museum
Department of Cultural Affairs
Ministry of Education Superintendent of Hostels
Ministry of Information & Media Press Officer, Proof Reader
Department of Government Information
Government Press
Ministry of Post and Telecommunication Postal Combined Services Officers in the salary
Department of Post scale T-3-5-1 and T-3-4, Postal Service Officers (B1) of Unified Postal
Service
Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Fisheries Assistant
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
Department of Cooperative Development District Officer, Cooperative Inspector
Department of Food Commissioner Food Control Inspector (former Food & Price Control Inspector)
(c) Provincial Public Service : An officer in any of the following services who have satisfied basic qualifications mentioned above.
Clerk, Stenographer, Typist, Shroff, Book Keeper, Translator, Store Keeper, Librarian.
(d) Provincial Public Service : An officer in any of the following services who have satisfied basic qualifications mentioned above.
Revenue Inspector, Labor & Welfare Officer, Inspector of Weighing and Measuring, Relief Officer at Department of Commissioner
of Charity Colombo Municipal Council, Staff Officer and Secretary, Management Service Officer, Local Government Officer.
Department/Ministry Grades

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1076
(e) It is illegal to make applications by the officers who are not belonging to the posts indicated in this Gazette notification (Except
officers who have been absorbed to new posts due to change of designation). Such officers will not be considered for appointments
even though they sit for the examination.
Note.- (I) Candidates who have not possessed satisfactory service reports within the 5 years immediately preceding 05.10.2007 will
not be considered for appointments even if they sit for the examination.
(II) A candidate is considered as having possessed a satisfactory period of service if he satisfies following conditions ;
(a) Candidate should have earned all due salary increments within the 5 years immediately preceding the date on which
the qualifications should have to be completed.
(b) Candidates should have not been subjected to any punishment for any offence committed within this period (Except
warning)
(III) An officer who has been interdicted by the closing date of applications is not eligible for appointment.
(IV) No person shall sit the Limited Competitive Examination and the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to Sri
Lanka Administrative Service for more than two occasions altogether.;
06. Examination Fees .- The fee for the examination will be Rs. 300.00. This should be paid before the closing date of
applications at any District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20-13. The receipt obtained thus from the
District/Divisional Secretariat should be affixed in the relevant cage of the application form. The fee is non-refundable. It w ould be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
07. Method of applications.-
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared on paper
of size 8 1/2 x 12 inches (A4 Paper) using both sides and should be filled by the candidate himself by his own
handwriting. It is to be specifically noted that the application should be prepared in such a way that cages 1.0 to 3.11
appear on the 1st page while cages 4.0 to 8.0 on the reverse. Applications that do not comply with the specimen or
that have not been completed properly will be rejected without notice. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
application with the candidate. It is required to indicate the name of the examination in English also in the applications
prepared both in Sinhala and Tamil mediums.
(b) The application should be prepared in the same language in which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) Applications perfected by candidates should be sent to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, (Organizations
& Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 2008.09.26 by
Registered Post. The top left corner of the envelope containing the application should clearly bear the words “Limited
Competitive Examination for recruitment to Sri Lanka Administration Service - 2007”. Application received after this
date will be rejected.
(d) Candidate’s signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed
Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in the Public
Service whose annual salary is more than Rs. 237,060.
(e) Applications that are not complete in every aspect will be rejected.
Complaints on applications getting lost or delayed in the post will not be entertained.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1077
(f) A notification will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are
issued to candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should
be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable
to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations. i. e.—  certified photocopies of
the application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
08. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examination will issue Admission Cards to all persons whose applications have been
received. A candidate presenting himself for the examination produce his admission card to the supervisor of the
examination center. Any candidate who fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination;
(b) Candidates must sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate should surrender to the
supervisor of the hall, the admission card relevant to that hall at the first day he presents himself for the Examination.
A set of rules to be observed by all candidates is published in this Gazette. Candidates should be bound by the rules
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the examination and they are
liable to a punishment imposed by him for breach of these rules.
Note.- Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
Admission cards are issued on the assumptions that candidates have fulfilled all the qualifications laid down in the notificati on.
09. Identity of Candidates.–  A Candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, only one of the following documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport.
10. Penalty for furnishing false information :
(a) If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any state, prior to, during or after the
examination ;
(b) If it is found that a candidate has purposely furnished false information or willfully suppressed any material fact, he
or she will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
11. Any matter not provided for in this notification shall be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions
of the Public Service Commission.
12. Scheme of Examination.— Language Medium of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the qualifying examination/interview for
entry into the Public Service or in an official language.
Note.- (I) A candidate should sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
(II) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1078
13. Method of Testing :
(a) A test consisting of written papers in the following subjects:
General Administration - 100 marks - duration 03 hrs.
Financial Regulations - 100 marks - duration 03 hrs.
Case Study - 100 marks - duration 03hrs.
(b) Oral Test - 100 marks
Selection of those to be summoned for the Oral Test will be made from among those who have sat all the papers in the written
examination. Only those candidates who obtain a minimum of 40% of marks in each paper and a sufficiently high aggregate of marks, as
determined by the PSC will be eligible to be called for the Oral Test. If there are an adequate number of such persons, twice t he number
of candidates as there is vacancies will be called for the oral test. (Marking scheme will be approved by the Public Services Commission
of the first stage by recruitment.).
Note.- Calling for the oral test shall not constitute fulfilling of qualifications for an appointment. The number of vacancies filled
will as determined by the Public Service Commission.
The number to be appointed at any time will be decided by the Public Service Commission.
14. Syllabus :
(a) General Administration .- Candidates will be given a paper to test the candidates’ knowledge in office practice and systems,
current circular instructions and the provisions of the Establishments  Code. Special Reference will be made to the following
chapters :
I, II, III, V, VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII,  XLVIII.
(b) Financial Regulation  :
(I) The Financial Regulations of the Government Part I
(Except Chapter X)
(II) The Extimates of the current year - their arrangements, the Revenue Heads, the Finance and appropriation.
(III) Ordinance related to specific accounts maintained in Kachcheries.
(c) Case Study .— A paper designed to test the candidate’s power of constructive thinking and problem solving ability. The
candidate will be presented with one or more situations posing problems to which solutions are required.
On the order of the Public Services Commission.
D. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
......... August 2008.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1079
(For office use only)
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III Of
Sri Lanka Administrative Service - 2007
APPLICATION FORM
1.0 Medium : 2.0 City :
Language Medium of Examination Indicate city in which the candidate
intends to sit for the Examination
(Sinhala - 2,  Tamil - 3, English - 4)
(Indicate the relevant Number in the Cage
Relevant City No. :
(As per Para. I of notification of Examination)
It will not be allowed to change the city subsequently.
3.0 Personal Information  :
3.1 Name, with initials at the end (In English block capitals)  : Example :  SILV A,
A. B.
3.2 Name in full (In English block capitals) :————.
3.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
3.4 Official address in English block capitals (Admission card will be sent to this address) :————.
3.5 Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
3.6 Private Address (In Sinhal/Tamil) :————.
3.7 Sex : (Male - 0 Female - 1) - Indicate relevant number in the cage
3.8 Marital Status (Single - 1, Married - 2) - Indicate relevant number in the cage
3.9 Race : (Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, IndianTamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other- 5) - Indicate relevant number in the cage
       3.10 National Identity Card No. :
3.11 Date of Birth :         Year    Month Date
4.0 Indicate the language medium in which you passed the qualifying examination/oral test for entry to the Service/Grade :
05.10.2007 :————.
5.0 (i) Your Service/Grade out of the Services, Departmetns, Grades mentioned in Para. 5 of the Gazette Notification [Class,
Grade or Segment (if any) should be indicated]. (If you have served in more than one eligible Service/Grade, those
should be indicated with dates) :————.
(a) Present Post:————.
Service to which the Post belongs (Public/Provincial Public):————.
Grade :————.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1080
Class/Segment :————.
Date of appointment to the post :————.
Date of confirmation in the post :————.
Effective date of Degree :————.
(c) Other services./grades (if any) through which you claim eligibility :
Name of Service/Grade Date of Appointment Date of Confirmation Period of Service
From ............. To .............
(1) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(2) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(3) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(4) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(5) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(ii) T otal period of permanent and continuous service as at ................ in the services/grades referred to in Para (5) of the  Gazette
Notification
6.0  (I) The years in which you have sat the Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service :
(I) ————.
(II) ————.
(III) ————.
(IV) ————.
(V) ————.
(VI) ————.
(II) The years in which you have sat the Open Competitive Examination for Recritment to the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service :
7.0 Paste the cash receipt properly :
Paste the cash receipt firmly. Keep a photocopy.
8.0 Certificate of the candidate :
I declare that during the five years preceding .................., I have earned all increments (Exclusive those conditional to passing
service or departmental examinations) and that I have not been subject to any form of disciplinary punishment (Excluding
warning) for any offence committed during those five years.
I declare that I am eligible to sit this Limited Competitive Examination and that to the best of my knowledge, the
information given in this is true and that I have affixed the receipt, No. .......... dated ............... being payment of th e
examination. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing examinations and any decision that may be taken to cancel my
candidature prior or during or after examination if it is found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination.
————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date : ————.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1081
9.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to the personal file) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. who is submitting this application has earned all salary incr ements
during the period of 5 years prior to ................. (except the increments which require passing of service or departmental tests),
had not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (Except warnings), the particulars furnished in the application have
been found correct according to available records, he/she eligible to sit for this examination as per regulations stipulated in this
Gazette Notification and that he/she signed this application before me.
—————,
Signature and official stamp of Head of
Department/Authorized Officer.
Name : —————
Designation : —————
Date : —————
(Place official frank)
08-936
—————————————————
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
COMPETITIVE  EXAMINA TION  FOR RECRUITMENT  OF  MOULA VI  TEACHERS
For vacancies existing in National and Provincial Schools - 2008/2009
APPLICATIONS are called for recruitment of Moulavi teachers for Grade 3-II of Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service under Teachers’ Service
Minute for the teachers’ vacancies existing in National and Provincial schools in the island.
(1) Eligibility :
1.1 General qualifications.–
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(ii) Should have a good character and physically in good health
(iii) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years on 30.09.2008
1.2 Educational qualifications required to sit the Competitive Examination
1.2.1 Should have passed G. C. E. (O.L) examination as on 30.09.2008 in terms of Teachers’ Service Minute in not
more than two sittings in 06 subjects with credit passes for 03 subjects and passes for Mother Tongue,
Mathematics and Arabic Language.
1.2.2 Should have passed G. C. E. (A.L.) examination in any 03 subjects
1.2.3.1 Should have passed Al Alim Final examination held by Department of Examinations;
or
1.2.3.2 Should have obtained a Moulavi Certificate from an Arabic school approved by the Department of
Muslim Religious Affairs after study of a 7 year Course.
Every person joining teaching profession should have fulfilled the above conditions.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1082
02. Scheme of Recruitment and Service Conditions :
2.1 Recruitment will be made by an interview held according to the priority of marks obtained in the competitive
Examination to be held in future by the Commissioner General of Examinations for recruitment of teachers for the
those who apply for the National and Provincial Schools in response to the notice published in the Government
Gazette out of the candidates who offer for the selection of eligible persons. However it is necessary to obtain a
minimum of 40% marks to consider the priority basis. No marks will be given at the interview.
2.2 Candidate who apply for Provincial Schools should have a permanent residence for a minimum period of 05 years
within the District they have applied.
2.3 Examination will be held only in Sinhala and Tamil languages.
2.4 Interview Board will be appointed by the Secretary Ministry of Education
2.5 A selected candidate will be appointed to Grade 3-II of Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service subject to the general conditions
governing Government appointments, conditions stipulated in Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service Minute, amendments
made thereto and to be made hereinafter. Salaries will be paid under the monthly salary scale of Rs. 13,120-10x145-
5x180-Rs.15,470 in Salary Group bearing No. T-S-1-2006 in Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 (iv)
2.6 These appointment are permanent and pension able
2.7 Promotions will be made under the provisions laid down in the Minute of Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service.
03.  Method of application :
3.1 Applications should be prepared as indicated in the specimen form appearing at the end of this notification by using
both sides of A4 size paper by including items 01 to 04 in the first page and items 05 to 08 in the second page and the
relevant information shuld be written clearly in candidate’s own handwriting. In preparing the application it is
necessary to insert the name of the examination as indicated in the heading, in English too in addition to Sinhala in the
Sinhala applications and also in English in addition to Tamil in the Tamil applications.
3.2 Permanent residential district at the time of filling application or district number should be written as indicated in the
following Tables. Applications prepared with additional information will be rejected.
No. District No. District No. District
01 Colombo 09 Hambantota 17 Trincomalee
02 Gampaha 10 Jaffna 18 Kurunegala
03 Kalutara 11 Mannar 19 Puttalam
04 Kandy 12 V avuniya 20 Anuradhapura
05 Matale 13 Mullativu 21 Polonnaruwa
06 Nuwara Eliya 14 Kilinochchi 22 Badulla
07 Galle 15 Batticloa 23 Moneragala
08 Matara 16 Amparai 24 Ratnapura
25 Kegalle
3.3 Applications which are not in conformity with the specimen form and those with incomplete information will be
rejected without any notification. It will be useful to keep a photo copy of the application with the candidate.
3.4 Duly completed applications should be sent under registered post  addressed to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to be received on or before 30.09.2008.
3.5 Any complaint relating to applications lost in the post or delayed will not be entertained.
3.6 Applications which are addressed to the Ministry of Education, Provincial Ministries of Education or Provincial/
Zonal Education Offices or personally addressed to officers will not be considered.
3.7 The words “Recruitment of Moulavi Teachers for Sri Lanka Teachers’, clearly written in the top left hand corner of
the application enclosing the applications.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1083
04. Examination Centers :
4.1 Written examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil mediums in the only in following cities Date and the place of
conducting the examination will be notified by the commissioner General of Examinations later.
City where the examination is held City No.
Colombo 1
Matara 2
Kalmunai 3
Kandy 4
4.2 Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the candidates a Notification to that effect will be published in the
newspapers by the Department of Examinations. If any candidate does not receive his/her admission card at least 2
or 3 days before the date of conducting examination the candidate should notify the Department of Examinations as
indicated in the notification. It willl be effective to notify the Department of Examinations along with certified a
photo copy of the application and payment receipt kept with the candidate, postal registration receipt, and the
request indicating the fax number to send the admission card when the address is outside Colombo.
05. Examination Notice.— Candidates should produce their attested Admission Card to the Supervisor and appear for the
examination. They will not be allowed to sit the examination without producing an Admission Card.
06. Examination Fees.— Examination fee is Rs. 300 receipt obtained for the payment of this fee at any District/divisional
Secretary’s Office in the name of Commissioner General of Examinations under Head No. 4000-20-03-20-13 should be affixed in the
column provided for in the application and the receipt number should be written there it will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate.
07. For the purpose of ensuring the identity of a candidate with the supervisor in the examinations conducted by the Department
of Examinations the documents accepted are only the National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons or  his
Passport.
08. The issue of an admission card to a candidate will not be treated as a recognition of the fulfilment of the qualifications
required to sit the examinations.
09. The candidates will be subject to the rules and regulations stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examinations relating
to the examinations held., In the event of any violation of such rules regulations the candidate will be liable to a punishment  imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Examination Procedure.— This examination will be consisting of two question papers. Both papers will carry multiple
questions and questions for which short answers are expected.
1. Aptitude Test : (1) Time 01 hour - 100 marks - A paper prepared to test the candidate’s language ability, logic ability and
arithmetical abilities.
2. General Knowledge (02) - Time 01 hour - 100 marks
A paper consisting of questions prepared to assess the candidate’s knowledge on events which locally and internally
significant in the economic, political educational, cultural, religious social, scientific and sports fields.
11. Method of selection.—
1. For Provincial Schools 410 candidates who obtained the highest marks in the Competitive Examination will be selected
under two stages out of the candidates residing in the districts who have applied for the vacancies available in the
respective district.
2. For National Schools 14 candidates who obtained the highest marks in the competitive examination will be selected under
two stages out of the canditates residing in the districts who have applied for the vacancies available in the respective
district.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1084
The number of Moulavi Teachers who will be recruited in two stages for the
National Schools and Provincial Schools is indicated below
Province District                  2008             2009 National School
Tamil Sinhala Tamil Sinhala 2008 2009
Medium Medium Medium Medium TM SM TM SM
Western Colombo 03 03 03 03 12 01 01
Gampaha 03 03 06
Kalutara 03 02 03 02 10
09 05 09 05 28
Southern Galle 03 02 03 08 01 01
Matara 04 04 01 09
Hambantota 03 03 01 07
10 02 10 02 24
Central Kandy 17 02 17 02 38 01
Matale 07 07 14 01
Nuwaraeliya 01 01 02
25 02 25 02 54
Eastern Ampara 30 30 60 01 01
Batticaloa 15 15 30 01
Trincomalee 20 20 40 01
65 65 130
North Western Kurunegala 24 01 24 01 50 01 01 01
Puttalam 13 13 26 01
37 01 37 01 76
North Central Anuradhapura 18 18 36
Polonnaruwa 04 04 08
22 22 44
Sabaragamuwa Kegalle 11 01 11 23
Ratnapura 03 03 01 07
14 01 14 01 30
Uva Badulla 04 04 08
Moneragala 02 02 04
06 06 12
Nothern V avuniya 03 04 07
Mannar 02 02 04
Jaffna 01 01
06 06 12
Total 194 11 194 11 410 05 02 05 02
Grand Total 424
12. Instruction for filling the application :
12.1 The cage provided for official use should be left blank for the requirement of the Department of Examinations.
12.2 The Districts applied for will not be changed for any reason whatsoever and appeals made to that effect will not be
considered. Likewise, a candidate can submit only one application.
13. The Secretary of the Line Ministry of Education reserves the right to decide any matter not covered by this Notification and
to make a final decision relating to filling any part of the vacancies or filling all vacancies or to refrain from filling the vacancies.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1085
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
For Office Use
Competitive Examination for recruitment of Moulavi  Teachers for vacancies existing in National and
Provincial Schools - 2008/2009
Language Medium appearing for the examination :
Sinhala - 02
Tamil - 03
City and city number appearing for examination City City N umber
(City to be written in English Capital letters)
(To be filled according to indicated in Para 4.1 in the Notification)
Residential District Number
(Please refer to 2.2 in the Notification)
(To be filled according to Table at 3.2 in Notification)
01. 1.1 Name with initials. at the end (To be written in English Capital letters) :————.
Example : NAZEER A. B.
1.2 Name denoted by initials :————. (In English Capital Letters)
02. 2.1 Present address :————. (In English Capital Letters)
(Admission Card will be posted to this address)
03. 3.1 Sex :————. Male-0 Female-1 (To be written in the cage)
3.2 Civil status Married - 1 Unmarried-2
(To be written in the cage)
3.3 National Identity Card No.
04. Category of schools applied :
(To be written in the cage)
1. National schools
2.  Provincial Schools
3.  Both National and Provincial Schools
05. 5.1 Date of birth : Y ear : Month :    Date :
5.2 Age as on 30.09.2008 : Years : Months :    Days :
06. 6.1 Examination fees paid Rupees (in words) :————.
6.2 Receipt No. :————.
6.3 Office issued :————.
6.4 Date :————.
Receipt to be affixed here firmly
A photo copy of receipt should be kept by candidate
(To be written in the cage)

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1086
07. Declaration by candidate :
I hereby declare that the information furnished by me as above are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I am aware that
I am liable to be dismissed from service if it is revealed that I am not eligible for the post after being selected to the post . I declare that I
will be subject to the rules and regulations to be imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations relating to the examinat ion.
————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.
08. (Only for those who are already in service)
(Recommendation of the Head of Department/Institute)
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss................................................ is serving in this Department/Institute and  he/she has not
been subjected to any punishment other than warning during the immediately preceding period of five years from.................ands also that
he/she can be released immediately if he/she is selected to the relevant post.
————,
Signature and designation of the
Head of Department/Institute.
Date :————.
08-1103
——————————————
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class 1, 2-1, 2-11 & 3 Sri Lanka Principals’ Service – 2008
IT is hereby notified  that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers Class 1, 2-1, 2-11 & 3 Sri Lanka Principals’ Service 2008 will be
held in Colombo in December, 2008.
02. The syllabus of this examination and other provisions relating to these Examinations have been published in the Gazette
Extraordinary Notification of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1086/26 dated 11 th March, 1999. This syllabus
and other provisions are indicated below for the convenience of the Candidates.
(As a provision which had been made by Para “d” in Section 27 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service Minute which enable the
officers 45 years of age to be exempted from the efficiency Bar has been abolished by Public Administration circular No. 20/200 1 dated
12.09.2001 all officers belonging to Principals’ Service should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination.)
(a) Examination Procedure.—  Subject of the Efficiency Bar Examination are indicated below :-
01. Provisions of Establishment Code :
First Paper - Multiple Questions 50 - Time 01 Hour - 50 Marks
Second Paper - Structured Questions - Time 01 Hour - 50 Marks
02. Financial Administration in Schools :
First Paper - Multiple Questions 50 - Time 01 Hour - 50 Marks
Second Paper - Structured Questions - Time 01 Hour - 50 Marks
03. Education Administration and Supervision :
First Paper - Multiple Questions 50 - Time 01 Hour - 50 Marks
Second Paper - Structured Questions - Time 02 Hours - 50 Marks
Policies of the Ministry of Education Organization and functions of the Ministry and in the Departments and Institutions
under the Ministry including Provincial Departments of Education, School Administration, Relationship between Schools and Community
School Supervision and Assessment of Teachers’ Performance and Educational Planning on National Provincial and School Level.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1087
03.  For obtaining passes Candidate should obtain a minimum of 40% marks or more Marks for each subject applied by him.
04. Language medium of the examination :- Sinhala/Tamil/English (Medium applied could not be changed later).
(i) A candidate can answer in the Official Language ;  or
(ii) A Candidate may answer in the language medium of the competitive examination for which he appeared for joining the
Public Service and in the case of those who joined Public Service without appearing for a Competitive Examination they
may answer the papers in the language medium of the examination in the language medium through which they were
qualified to join the Service.
05. If it is revealed that any candidate had appeared for the examination in a medium he/she is not entitled to answer his/her
candidature will be cancelled.
06. An applications prepared in a A4 size paper in accordance with the Form indicated below by including items 01 to 06 in the
first page and the remaining items in the Second page, should be forwarded & details relevant to that; should be inserted in ow n legible
Hand writing. Mention in same paragraph that Applications which; incompatible to the Specimen Applications, incomplete detailed
Applications will be rejected without acknowledgement and it will be useful to keep a Photostat Copy of said Application. And f urther
mention that the Candidate should see about compatibility of the application with the Specimen application of Notice of Examina tion &
If it will not be so; the Application will be rejected. When the Applications are arranged; the name of the Examination mention ed in its
Head should be in English in Sinhala Application in Addition to Sinhala & should be in English in Tamil Application in Addition to Tamil.
07. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidats are bound to abide by the rules
and regulations imposed by him for conducting this examination. Rules and Regulations for the Examination has been publishded a t the
end of this Notification.
08. Applications should be sent under registered post addressed to Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations; Pelawatta, Battaramulla through Principal/Zonal Director of Education/Additional Provincial Director of Education  or
Head of your Service; to be reached on or before 26th of September, 2008. Any applications received after this date will be rej ected.
09. In the event of any candidate not receiving his admission card at least 07 days before date of examination he should promptly
notify to that effect to the Commissioner General of Examinations, Pelawatta Battaramulla. (Telegraphic address : “Examinations ”,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla. While informing the non receipt of the admission Card, following information it is necessary to supply  the
following information) After the Admission Cards are issued; a Newspaper Advertisement will be published on that forthwith by
Department of Examinations. If the Admission Card was not received although 2/3 days were passed from the day which Newspaper
Advertisement was published; it should be informed on that to the Sri Lanka in accordance with the Advertisement. Department of
Examinations; It will be useful to inform to Department of Examinations; keeping your letter of request with certified photo co pies of
your Application & the Receipt of the payment of money, registered Receipt & a Fax Number; If you are from a remote area.
(i) Name of Examination :—————,
(ii) Candidate’s name in full :—————,
(iii) Candidate’s address in full :—————,
(iv) Date of posting the application, registered number and Post Office :—————,
(v) It is instructed to those who are residing close by may to inform the Commissioner of Examinations through a Messenger.
10. Any appeals (forwarded later) forwarded by candidates who fail to fulfil the requirements indicated at para 08 above will
not be considered.
11. It is the responsibility of the candidates to submit evidence to prove their indentity at the Examination hall and for this
purpose any one of the following documents will be valid.
(I) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the Department of Registration of Persons;
(II) A valid Passport.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1088
12. Examination Fees:
(a) Examination Fees charged for this Examination will not be refunded for any reason whatsoever and the transfer of
this fee for another examination will not be permitted;
(b) For the first sitting no fee will be charges for the whole examination or for a part of it.
Fees charged thereafter for each instance are indicated below.
For the whole examination Rs. 120
For one subject Rs. 40
Fees for the examination should be paid in revenue stamps. These stamps should be affixed to the application and cancelled by
placing the candidate’s signature on it.
13. Candidates are bound to abide by the Rules and Regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for
conducting the Examination. And also inform that if said Rules and Regulations are violated; he or she is bound to the punishme nt to be
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
08th August, 2008.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
S
RI LANKA EXAMINATION DEPARTMENT
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICER’S CLASS 1,2 – 1, 2 – 11 AND 3 IN SRI LANKA PRINCIPALS’ SERVICE
(Application should be sent under registered post addressed to Commissioner General of Department of Examiantions, Pelawatta,
through (Principal/Zonal Director of Education/Additional Provincial Director of Education. Name of the examination should be
indicated on the top left hand corner of envelope)
Language medium appearing for the examination
Sinhala-2  Tamil-3 English - 4
(Relevant number to be written in the cage)
1. (a) Name with initials at end :———————.
(In English Capital letters) Ex : Mr./Mrs./Miss SILV A. H. A.
(b) Full Name :———————.
( In Sinhala & Tamil ) ––––––––––––––––––––––––.
2.  Date of Birth : Y ear: Month: Date:
3. (i) Class of Principals’ Service/Grade :———————.
(ii) School/Office :———————.
(iii) Provincial Department of Education/Zonal Office of Education :———————.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1089
4.  Address:
(i) Private :———————.
(ii) Official :———————.
(iii) Address : Admission Card should be sent :———————.
(In English Capital letters)
5. National Identity Card Number :
6.  Subjects applied with subject Number under (a) of 02nd para of the  Gazette Notification
Subject No. 01 - Provisions of Establishment Code
Subject No. 02 - Financial Administration in Schools
Subject No. 03 - Education Administration and Supervision
(Write No. of relevant Subject in/Cage/Cages of Number)
7.  Whether you have appeared for this examination earlier completely or partly and if so indicate the subjects, year appeared and the
     medium.
Subject Subject Number Year Medium
8.  Examination fees paid:
Stamps to be affixed here
I hereby declare that the above details are true and correct. And I agree with the Rules and Regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for conducting the Examination.
———————,
Signature of aplicant.
Date:———————.
Commissioner General :
I certify that above detailed Candidate is an officer of my School/Office. And; I also certify that the candidate has duly cancelled
the stamp/stamps.
———————,
Signature of Principal/Zonal Director of Education/
Additional Provincial Director of Education.
Date :———————.
Address : :———————.
Date :———————.
(Cut inapplicable words)
08-846

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1090
MINISTRY  OF  FINANCE  AND  PLANNING
Inviting Applications from the Officers who are engaged in Duties Related to planning Activities in the Ministries/
Departments to be considered (where Planning related Work is involved) for Appointment to Class II Grade II of Sri
Lanka Planning Service, on Supernumerary Basis
APPLICATIONS are invited, in pursuance of an order issued by the Public Service Commission, from officers who are engaged in duties
related to planning activities in Ministries/Departments (where planning work is involved), for an examination to be held on No vember
by the Commissioner Geneal of Examinations to be considered for appointment to Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Planning Service on
Supernumerary basis.
Services and Salary Scales :
(a) Plan Implementation Officers :
MN-5 : Rs. 15,785-10x290-15x325-11x400-Rs. 27,960
(b) Development Officers :
MN-4 : Rs. 14,850-10x185-4x210-15x290-7x320-Rs. 24,130
(c) Statistical Assistants (Ministry in-charge of the Portfolio of Finance & Planning) :
MN-4 : Rs. 14,850-10x185-4x210-15x290-7x320xRs. 24,130
(d) Entrepreneurship Development Training Officers (Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports) :
MN-5 : Rs. 15,785-10x290-15x325-11x400-Rs. 27,960
(e) Project Officers (Ministry of Plan Implementation) :
MN-5 : Rs. 15,785-10x290-15x325-11x400-Rs. 27,960
(f) Development Assistants (Ministry of Plan Implementation) (Development Officers at Present) :
MN-4 : Rs. 14,850-10x185-4x210-15x290-7x320-Rs. 24,130
2. Qualifications Required :
(i) Should possess a permanent continuous and satisfactory period of not less than 5 years service in one of the above posts as
at 01.01.2007.
(ii) Should have been confirmed in any of the above posts.
(iii) Should possess a degree from a recognized university.
(iv) Candidates should be prepared to submit the following documents when directed to do so :-
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) Degree of Post Graduate Certificate/s (Qualifying Certificate) ;
(c) Certificates of highest examinations passed in Sinhala, Tamil or English.
(N.B.— No certificate or copy of a certificate other than the receipt for the payment of examination fees should be attached).
3. Terms of Engagement and Conditions of Service :
Appointments will be given by the Public Service Commission to those who have scored more than 40 marks at the examination
for recruitment to the Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Planning Service, on Supernumerary basis. Conditions related to supernumerary
basis are given below :-
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions have to be made to the Widows/Widowers and Orphans Pension
Fund.
(ii) They should be satisfied with the salary paid to them without privileges granted to scheduled posts.
(iii) All officers of the Planning Service have to pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination. The E. B. includes the following
subjects :
(a) Planning Concepts and Methodology, Planning Institutions, Finance and Administration ;
(b) Economic Analysis and Statistics ;
(c) Project Planning ;
(d) English Language.
(For details, please refer to appendix ‘E’ of the Sir Lanka Planning Service Minute published in the Gazette Extra-Ordinary
No. 1,134/5 dated 30.05.2000 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka).

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1091
(iv) To gain eligibility for a permanent post, should pass the examination for promotion/recruitment conducted in terms of the
Sri Lanka Planning Service Minute.
(v) The post on Supernumerary basis shall be held as personal to the self.
(vi) Once the appointments are given to the officers referred to in appendix ‘E’ of the Sri Lanka Planning Service Minute, an equal
number of vacancies of the relevant services will be withdrawn from appendix ‘E’ of the Sri Lanka Planning Service Minute.
4. Structure and Monthly Salary Scale (in terms of P A Circular No. 6/2006) :
Monthly Salary Scale Rs. 22,935-10-645-8x790-17x1,050xRs.53,555 (1st Efficiency Bar operates prior to monthly salary of
Rs. 24,225 and Second Efficiency Bar before Rs. 28,095)
Initial Monthly Salary Scale of Class I Rs. 36,755
Initial Monthly Salary of Class II (Class II Grade I of SLPS) Rs. 30,175
Initial Monthly Salary of Class III (Class II Grade II of SLPS) Rs. 22,935
5. Application and Examination Fees :
Fee for the examination will be Rs. 300. The receipt obtained by the payment of examination fee to a District Secretariat or a
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Head 4000-20-03-20-13, should be affixed to the upper end of page 2 of the application form. (The
examination fee will not be refunded). Applications, for which the examination fees have been paid after the due date, will be rejected.
The applications will not be acknowledged. Admission Cards will be issued to the candidates by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. A press notice informing the date of the examination will be published by the Commissioner General of Examinations once
the admission cards are issued. Candidates who do not receive their admission cards at least 7 days before the date of examination, should
communicate with the Commissioner General of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla, giving the following particulars.
(i) Name of the Examination : —————;
(ii) Full Name of Candidate : —————;
(iii) Address : —————;
(iv) Date of posting the application, the post office and the registration number : —————;
(v) Date of payment, place and the receipt No. : —————.
You are advised to keep a Photostat Copy of the receipt obtained on payment of examination fees.
6. Admission to the Examination :
Candidates should sit the examination at the given examination hall. The Admission Card issued by the Commissioner General
of Examinations should be produced to the Head of the Examination Hall, with the signature attested. The examination will be he ld in
Colombo and candidates are not entitled to any traveling or subsistence.
Note.— Issuance of an admission card to a candidate by the Commissioner General of Examinations to sit the examination
should not be considered as eligibility to sit the examination.
7. Method of Application :
(a) Applications must be prepared in accordance with the specimen form given at the end of the notification, using both sides
of a paper of 21x29 (A4). Applications should be prepared in such a way that  Nos. 01 to 08 are on page 01.
(b) Perfected applications must be sent by registered post addressed to Commissioner General of Examinations, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla to reach him on or before 26.09.2008.
“Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Planning Service (on Supernumerary Basis)” should be marked on
top left corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
(c) Officers should submit their applications on or before the due date through the Heads of their Departments.
(d) Applications should be prepared in the medium in which the applicant sits the examination.
(e) Applications which do not conform to the relevant specimen as well as incomplete and delayed applications will be rejected
without any notice. Complaints regarding loss or delay in the post will not be considered.
8. Identity of the Candidate :
A candidate is required to prove his/her identify at the examination hall in respect of each subject he/she offers to the satisfaction
of the Supervisor. For this purpose, the following documents are acceptable.
(i) Identity card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport (Issued within 3 years of the date of examination.).

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1092
9. Furnishing Incorrect Information :
If it is revealed that any candidate is ineligible to sit the examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage
before. during or after the examination. If it is revealed that any candidate has willfully submitted false information, he/she is liable to be
dismissed from service. Candidates should comply with the rules and instructions given at the beginning of Part I : Section II ‘A ’ of this
Gazette.
10. Medium :
The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media.
(a) A candidate can sit the examination in any language of his/her choice ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination only in one language ;
(c) Change of medium at the examination will not be allowed.
11. Methods of Examination :
Part (A)
A two hour paper on “Plan Implementation and Project Appraisal” - 100 marks.
Part (B)
Viva Voce ( No marks will be given for this test).
12. Syllabus :
Plan Implementation and Project Appraisal
The aim of this question paper is to examine the basic knowledge of the candidate on principles of planning and planning
methodologies and also to assess the knowledge and experience of the candidate on identification, preparation, appraisal monitoring and
evaluation of projects.
13. Method of Selection :
Candidates who fail to score a minimum of 40 marks will be ineligible to be called for the interview. Candidates for appointment
will be selected from those who score more than 40% marks at the examination.
Problems regarding any matter not referrd to in this notice or the number of candidates to be appointed from the examination
will be dealt with by the Public Service Commission and its decision should be final.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
P. B. J
AY ASUNDERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 1,
21st of August, 2008.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Class II Grade II of Sri Lanka Planning Service (Supernumerary
Basis) from the Officers who are engaged in Planning Activities - 2008
(For Office use Only)
Medium of the Examination :
Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage).
01. Last Name with initials :—————.
(In Block Capitals)
Ex. : Mr./Mrs./Miss SILVA A. L.
1.1 Names denoted by initials :—————.
(in Block Capitals)

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1093
02. Address to which the admission card should be sent :
(in Block Capitals)
(i) Private :—————.
(ii) Official :—————.
03. Gender : Female 1
Male 0
       (Please write the relevant number in the cage )
04. Date of Birth :
Year :—————; Month :—————; Date :—————.
05. National Identity Card Number :
06. Ethnicity :
(1) Sinhala (3) Indian Tamil (5) Other
(2) Sri Lankan Tamil (4) Muslim
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
07. Qualifications obtained to be eligible to sit for this examination, under Para II :
(i)
Name of the Post Held Period Annual Salary
Ministry/Provincial
Council/Dept./Institution
From to
(ii) Highest Educational Qualifications obtained :
Degree/Diploma Year Subjects Class University or Institution
(iii) Highest examination passed in :
(a) Sinhala :—————;
(b) Tamil :—————;
(c) English :—————.
08. (a) Are you in debt ? If so, to what extent ? :........................
(b) Have you ever been convicted by a Court of Law for a criminal offence ? If so, give particulars :........................
09. Receipt obtained for the payment of Examination Fees (to be affixed) :
No. :—————;
Date :—————;
Issuing Office :—————.
Affix the receipt here.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.08.2008
1094
10. I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and bel ief. In
terms of the conditions of this examination, I am aware that my candidature can be cancelled before or after the examination, I f I
have furnished any incorrect information and subject to dismissal from service, if it is revealed after the selection.
.....................................
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :—————.
11. Attestation of the signature of applicant :
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................................................................  is known to  me personally and that
he/she placed his/her signature before me, on  ................................................................
........................................
Signature of Attesting Officer.
Date :—————.
Full Name, Address and the Post of the Attesting Officer :..................................................................... .........................
............................................................................................................................... ...........................................................
12. Certificate of the Head of the Department (only for the officers engaged in Public Service/Provincial Public Service) :
The applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................................................ has been employed in this Departme nt/Provincial Council/
Institution from. ........................................ He/She is holding a permanent and pensionable/temporary post. I here by certify that
during the period of past .............. years, he/she has earned all increments ; he/she has not been subjected to any discipl inary
punishment (other than warning) ; all the details given under Para. 07 have been  checked with the documents available in this office
and that they are correct ; if he/she is selected for the post he/she will be/will not be released from his/her present post  a nd ; he/
she placed his/her signature before me, on...................
...............................................
Signature and the official stamp of the officer.
Authorized by the Head of the Department/Institution :—————;
Date :—————.
Department/Institution:—————.
09-1114
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.