

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1922$4 - 2015 cQ,s ui 07 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2015'07'07
No. 1922/4  -  TUESDAY   JULY  07,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1AThis Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
THE   CIVIL   A VIATION   ACT  No. 14   OF  2010
Order under Section 6
APPOINTMENT  OF  SERVICE   PROVIDERS
BY virtue of powers vested in me as the Minister of Aviation under Section 6 of the Civil Aviation Act No. 14 of 2010, I,
Reginald Cooray do hereby, subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the Schedule-I hereto, appoint the Airport and
Aviation Services (SL) Ltd., (the Statutory Service Provider appointed under the Act aforementioned) as a Service Provider
with effect from date hereof for
 providing the following Aeronautical Services at Mattala Rajapakse lnternational Airport,
Mattala, Hambantota as specified in the Schedule II.
a. Provision of Ground Handling Facilities and Services.
b. Provision of assistance or equipment for dispatch of aircraft on the apron including aircraft cleaning
services
REGINALD C OORAY,
Minister of Aviation.
25th June, 2015
Battaramulla.
SCHEDULE   I
TERMS   AND   CONDITIONS   OF   APPOINTMENT
1. In providing the facilities or services specified in Schedule II, the Service Provider shall conform to the applicable
legal provisions in the Civil Aviation Act No. 14 of 2010 and any Regulation, Rule or Implementing Standard made thereunder
or any other written law, as may be applicable;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'07'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2015
2A
2. The Service Provider shall comply with any general or special direction given either by the Minister or the
Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka as the case may be, from time to time as to the discharge of duties, functions and
responsibilities of the Service Provider;
3. The Service Provider shall maintain in good order all movable and immovable properties which are sublet by the
Statutory Service Provider for the wellbeing and development of air transport industry and shall not give such movable or
immovable property on lease to any third party;
4. Every contract entered into by the Service Provider after the date hereof in respect of any facility or Service
Provided  by the Service Provider under this Order, be deemed to be a contract entered into by the Service Provider  on his
own behalf and not on behalf of the State and shall not bind the State in any manner;
5. On demand by the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister or Civil Aviation Authority in writing, the Service
Provider shall furnish to the Secretary or the Civil Aviation Authority as the case may be, with all relevant information
concerning any administrative, operational, technical or financial matters pertaining to the provision of any facility or service
under this appointment;
6. The Service Provider shall comply with the applicable requirements stipulated by the Civil Aviation Authority of
Sri Lanka or Director General of Civil Aviation as the case may be and obtain requisite licenses or certificates as applicable,
for provision of aeronautical services specified in the Schedule II ensuring that such facilities and/or services would
continue to be maintained in conformity with the applicable International Standards and Recommended Practices or any
Requirements published by the Civil Aviation Authority or Director General of Civil Aviation as the case may be;
7. The Service Provider shall ensure that the personnel, equipment, tools, facilities, services, and procedures used
by him to provide the Aeronautical Services herein authorized, has the requisite licence, rating, permit, approval or authorizations
issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation, as the case may be and where applicable.
8. The Service Provider shall pay the requisite fees to the Civil Aviation Authority in obtaining the requisite Licence
or Certificate as applicable and maintenance thereof.
9. The Service Provider shall not alter, suspend or stop provision of any service mentioned in Schedule II without
approval from the Minister in writing;
10. It is the duty of the service Provider to arrange a sufficient insurance cover to the  satisfaction of the Civil
Aviation Authority to meet the potential liabilities or compensations that may arise during the Service Provider’s operations
and the State will not be liable for such liabilities or compensation;
11. The Minister reserves the right to revoke the validity of the appointment of Service Provider made in terms of this
Order at any time if such action is deemed necessary in the interest of aviation safety, security, regularity, efficiency or
economical operation of air transport services in the country or if the Service Provider requests for such revocation;
12. The change of corporate identity, share capital or name of the Service Provider requires prior approval of the
Minister in writing;
13. The Service Provider shall not transfer or sublease provision of any of facility or services specified in Schedule
II without written approval by the Minister.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'07'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2015
3A
SCHEDULE   II
FACILITIES   AND   SERVICES   TO  BE   PROVIDED  BY   THE   SERVICE   PROVIDER
A. Provision of Ground Handling Facilities or Services
The provision of ground handling facilities or services which includes one or more of the following;
Index Description of Facility/Service
1. Good Administration & Supervision
    Performing anyone or more of the following.
a. Representing the operator.
b. Liaison service with local authorities or other entities.
c. Provision of office space for its representatives.
d. Load control, messaging and telecommunications.
e.  Handling, storage and administration of Unit Load Devices
f.  Supervision of security measures of the operator’s aircraft, freight and office premises as approved
by DGCA.
g. Any other supervision before, during or after a flight for and on behalf of an operator.
2. Passenger Handling
a. Any kind of assistance to arriving, departing, transfer or transit passengers including checking tickets
and travel documents, registering baggage and carrying them to the sorting area.
b. Providing lounge facilities to passengers and airport users and any other matter connected to or
incidental to passenger handling
3. Baggage Handling
Performing anyone or more of the following.
a. Handling baggage in the sorting area.
b. Sorting baggage for departures.
c. Loading and unloading baggage from the devices designed to move them from the aircraft to the
sorting area and vice versa .
d. Transporting baggage from the sorting area to the reclaim area and any other matter connected to or
incidental to baggage handling.
 4.  Freight and Mail Handling
      Performing any one or more of the following.
      Freight
a. Physical handling of export, transfer and import freight.
b. Handling of related documents.
c. Custom procedures.
d. Handling of Dangerous Goods.
e. Implementation of security procedures as approved by DGCA or any other matter connected to
incidental to Freight handling.
     Mail
a. Physical handling of incoming or outgoing mail.
b. Handling of related documents.
c. Implementation of security procedures as approved by DGCA or any other matter connected to
incidental to mail handling.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'07'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2015
4A
           5.  Ramp Handling
    Performing one or more of the following services.
a. Marshalling the aircraft on the ground at arrival and departure.
b. Assistance to aircraft parking and provision of suitable devices.
c. Commun ication between the aircraft and the air-side supplier of services
d. Loading and unloading of the aircraft.
e. Transport of crew and their baggage between the aircraft and terminal
f. Provision and operation of appropriate unit for engine starting.
g. Towing of aircraft and provision and operation of towing devices.
h. The transport, loading to and unloading from the aircraft of food and beverages or any other matter
connected to or incidental to Ramp Handling.
B.  The provision of assistance or equipment for dispatch of aircraft on the apron, including aircraft
    cleaning services;
The provision of assistance or equipment for dispatch of aircraft on the apron including aircraft cleaning
services  includes one or more of the following.
1. Aircraft Services
External and internal cleaning of the aircraft and the toilet and water services and any other matter
connected or incidental to aircraft services.
2. Aircraft Maintenance
   Performing one or more of the following services.
a. Routine services performed before flight.
b. Non-routine service.
c. Provision and administration of spare parts and suitable equipment.
d. Requests for or reservation of a suitable parking and/or hangar space or any other matter connected
or  incidental to aircraft maintenance.
3. Flight Operations and Crew Administration
   Performing one or more of the following services.
a. Preparation of the flight at the departure airport or at any other airport .
b. In-flight assistance, including re-dispatching if needed.
c. Post-flight activities.
d. Crew administration or any other matter connected or incidental to flight operations and crew
administration of aircraft Operators.
4. Surface Transport
    Performing one or more of the following services which requires operation of surface transport services  into,
   within or out of the airside.
a. Organization and execution of crew, their baggage, freight and mail transport between the
terminal and aircraft.
b. Any other special (non-routine) transport required on the apron or any other matter connected
or incidental to surface transport of airport users.
07-1023
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.