

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2285
2285
wxl 1"839 - 2013 fkdjeïn¾ 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'11'29
No. 1,839 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 29, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2288
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2293
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—Part I:III and III of the Gazette No. 1,838 of 22.11.2013 were not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th December, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th
December, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2286
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2287
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2288
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both males and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 30th  De cember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
09th November, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Bulathsinhala Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Mahagama Area of Pasdun Korale General, District Secretariat, Kalutara.
East Division.
11–886
––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Recruitment to Posts of Web Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the www.news.lk website of the Special Media Unit
of the Department of Government Information on Contractual Basis
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified candidates for recruitment to the posts of Web Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the www.news.lk
website at the Special Media Unit of the Department of Government Information.
1. 'Director General' in this notice refers to the Director General of Government Information.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2289
2. Structured Examination .– The date of the examination will be decided by the Director General of Government Information.
Fields considered in granting mark s Maximum Minimum marks
Marks 100% consid ered
for selection
1. Additional Educational Qualifications (In addition to basic qualifications for 40
recruitment) N. B.– These educational qualifications should have been obtained
in Computer Science/Information Technology or a related field
2. Professional Qualifications Regarding Information Technology for a Diploma 25
Course of a minimum 09 months course duration - 15 marks
For a Certificate Course of a minimum 06 months course duration - 10 marks Not applicable
3. Language proficiency (should be proved by certificates) :
For Sinhala Language Proficiency - 05 marks 15
For Tamil Language Proficiency - 05 marks
For English Language Proficiency - 05 marks
4. Professional Experience (should be proved by certificates/documents) 15
03 marks for each year of experience in the field
5. Skill demonstrated in the interview 05
Total 100
(i) The appointing authority will approve a comprehensive marking procedure for each structured interview within the
maximum mark allocated for each field in the above table.
(ii) Appointments will be made according to the rank obtained based on total marks obtained in the structured interview and
subject to the number of vacancies.
3. Number of appointments .– Steps will be taken to fill 03 vacancies of posts of Web Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in
www.news.lk of the Special Media Unit of the Department of Government Information.
4. Effective date of appointments.– Will be decided by the Director General of Government Information.
5. Service conditions.– Selected candidates will be appointed to the post of Web Editor subject to general conditions governing
pubilc service appointments, conditions and regulations in the Recruitment Procedure of Web Editor (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in t he
www.news.lk at the Special media Unit of the Department of Government Information on contractual basis, approved by the Public
Service Commission on 10.09.2013 and amendments already done and would be done in the future to the Recruitment Procedure.
6. The Public Service Commission has the authority to cancel the appointments of candidates who fail to assume duties on the
due date and/or who reject or avoid to assume duties.
7. Monthly allowance.– Rs. 25,000.
8. Qualifications.– At the closing date of applications :
(i) Educational Qualifications.– Obtaining a degree with Computer Science/Information Technology as a subject from a
university, recognized by the University Grant Commission or an institution recognized by the University Grant
Commission as a degree offering institution.
(ii) Professional Qualifications. – Successful completion of a certificate course in Information Technology at an
acknowledged institution will be considered as a special qualification.
(iii) Experience.– A minimum 03 years of experience in the Information Technology field.
(iv) Physical Qualifications .– Each candidate should be physically and psychologically fit to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and to discharge duties of the post.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2290
(v) Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should possess an excellent character,
(iii) All qualifications in regard to the appointment to the post should be duly completed before the due date.
9. Age : Minimum age : 18 years.
Maximum age : 50 years.
10. Method of Submitting Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared according to the specimen form of application attached to this notice using an A4 sheet.
Application should be filled in with candidates own handwriting. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
form of application and incomplete applications will be rejected without notification. It will be useful to keep a
photocopy of the application. Candidate must check whether the duly filled in application complies with the specimen
form of application. Otherwise, it may be rejected.
(b) Completed applications should be sent by registered post to reach the Department of Government Information, No. 163,
Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05 before 31.12.2013. Cite, "Recruitment to the post of Web Editor in 
www.news.lk at the
Special Media Unit of the Department of Government Information on Contractual Basis" on the top left hand corner of
the envelope, in which the application form is enclosed. Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.
(c) Incomplete applications in any manner will be rejected. Complaints on misplacements or delays will not be entertained.
11. If any candidate was found guilty of providing any false information or suppressing any important information purposely,
he/she is liable to be dismissed.
12. Matters not covered by these regulations will be determined by the Public Service Commission.
Director General of Government Information,
Powers Delegated by the Public Service Commission.
Department of Government Information,
No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue,
Colombo 05,
04th November, 2013.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For official use only)
R
ECRUITMENT TO POSTS OF WEB EDITOR (SINHALA/TAMIL/ENGLISH) IN
WWW.NEWS.LK AT THE SPECIAL MEDIA UNIT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION ON CONTRACTUAL BASIS
01. Medium :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
02. Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials stating initials at the end in English
Book letters : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
(E.g.– SILV A, A. B.)
2.2 Name in full in English block letters :–––––––––––.
2.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.4 Personal address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.5 Gender : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.6 Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant numbe rin the cage)
2.7 Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Ind. Tamil - 3,
Musilm - 4, Other - 5)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2291
2.10 T elephone Number (if available) :
03. Educational qualifications :
University Degree Date of validation Subjects
of the degree
04. Professional qualifications :
Institution Certificate Date of validation Duration
Course
05. Experience :–––––––––––.
06. Certification of the applicant :
I, certify that the above information is true and correct.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–865
–––––––––––––––
THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  PRISONS - SRI  LANKA
The Post of Vocational Instructor and Mechanical
Foreman of Class II/and the Post of Motor
Mechanic of Class II
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified Sri Lankan male citizens
for the following vacancies in the Department of Prisons, Sri Lanka.
01. Post.– V ocational Instructor and Mechanical Foreman of
Class II :
Posts :
1. Printing Technician
2. Weaving Technician
3. Metal Smith Technician
4. Sewing Technician
5. Bakery Technician
6. Wood Technician
7. Mason
8. Boiler Operator
9. Coir related product Technician
10. Barber
11. Shoe Making Technician
1.2 Salary scale.– As per the Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006(iv) MN-1-2006A. Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11x170
- 10x240 - 10x320 - Rs. 22,040 (MN-1-2006A. Initial
salary step will be effective).
1.3 Educational and other qualifications :
(a) Should have passed General Certificate of Education
(O/L) Examination in six subjects including Arithmetic/
Commerce, Arithmetic/Mathematic and Sinhala/Tamil
with two credit passes in not more than two attempts ;
(b) (i) Should have a certificate from a government
technical college on relevant field ; or
(ii) Should have a certificate from a technical college
recognized by the government, on relevant field ;
or
(iii) Should have a certificate issued by the National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Board,
attesting that the candidate has successfully
passed two year vocational or technical course
which the candidate is due to be appointed to.
02. Post : The Post of Motor Mechanic of Class II :
2.1 Salary Scale.– As per the Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006(iv) PL-2-2006A. Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -
10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170 - Rs. 18,600 (Initial salary
step will be effective).
2.2 Educational Qualifications .– Should have passed
Grade 8 from a school approved by the Director General
of Education.
2.3 Professional Qualifications :
(i) Should possess a two years training on relevant field,
from a technical college recognized by the government
or registered under the government ;
(ii) Should have two years experience in motor vehicle
repairing.
2.4 Other Qualifications :
(i) Ability to read up to 1/16 scale and to read such long
and wide records in fraction ;
(ii) Height should be 5 feet and 4 inches. Chest size should
be 32 inches without breath holding.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2292
2.5 Method of recruitment :
2.5.1 In addition to above mentioned educational,
professional and other qualifications, applicants
who have three years experience (experience should
be confirmed by certificates) in a similar post
equivalent to Grade 3, with good character, will be
recruited ;
2.5.2 As per the Public Administration Circular 24/95
on 19th July, 1995, recruitment to these posts
should be made through an interview :
Practical test takes six hours. for this
(i) Fixing breaks ;
(ii) Fixing clutches ;
(iii) Ability to correct mistakes in jamming and
minor repairing.
03. Age limit.– Applicants should not below 18 years or over 45
years of age on closing date of the applications. (The upper age
limit will not apply to those who are already in Government or
Provincial Government Service).
04. Conditions to employ in service.– These posts are permanent
and pensionable.
05. Conditions of appointment .– Relevant to sections 10-12 of
the Establishment Code.
06. Duly completed applications, as per in the format given
below, should be forwarded under registered post to reach the
Commissioner General of Prisons, No. 150, Baseline Road, Colombo
09 on or before 31st December, 2013. “Recruitment to V ocational
Instructor Class II” on the top left hand corner of the envelope,
enclosing with the application should be mentioned if you apply
for the post of Instructor and Technical Foreman of class II and
"Recruitment to Motor Mechanic Class II" on the top left hand
corner of the envelope, should be mentioned if you wish to apply
for the post of Motor Mechanic of Class II. Incomplete applications
and applications not received on due date will be rejected.
C
HANDRARATHNA PALLEGAMA,
Commissioner General of Prisons.
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF VOCATIONAL
INSTRUCTOR AND MECHANICAL FOREMAN OF
CLASS II/AND THE POST OF MOTOR
MECHANIC OF CLASS II
1. (i) Full Name :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
2. (i) Address :––––––––––––.
(ii) National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
3. (i) Relevant district to residential address :––––––––––––.
(ii) Nearest Police Station to residential address :––––––––.
4. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
5. Age as at 31st December, 2013 :
Days :––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Years :––––––––.
6. Whether citizenship of Sri Lanka by descent or registration :
––––––––––––.
7. Civil status : (single/married/widow) :––––––––––––.
8. Educational qualifications (Should clearly mentioned) :––––.
9. (i) Post applied for :––––––––––––.
(ii) Qualifications relevant to that post :––––––––––––.
10. Qualifications with regards to the experience :–––––––––––.
11. If the applicant already do a job :
(i) Occupation :––––––––––––.
(ii) Place of work :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment :––––––––––––.
12. Have you been convicted before a Court of Law ? (If “yes”,
give details) :––––––––––––.
13. Declaration of the Applicant :
I, hereby declare that particulars given by me in this application
are true and correct to best of my knowledge and belief. I fully,
aware, I will be unqualified to the post if found any wrong or false
information in this application and will be dismissed from the service
without compensation if found wrongs after I was selected to this
post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
11–1000
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of
Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule
hereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births,
Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled
to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in
the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more
than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2293
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 27th  of December,
2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
13th November, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Kesbewa Post of Registrar Births and Deaths of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Mampe Division and (General) General, District Secretariat,
Marriages in Salpita Koralaya Division Dam Street, Colombo 12.
11–1042
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
DEPARTMENTAL   EXAMINATION   FOR   PRELIMINARY   GRADE
MEDICAL   OFFICERS   AND   DENTAL   SURGEONS – SEPTEMBER -  2013
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination for Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons which should  be
passed by  Preliminary Grade Medical Officers before promotion to Grade II in terms of Section 07 of the Minute of Medical Offi cers
in the Health Services, published in the Gazette (Extra Ordinary) No. 662/11 of 17.05.1991 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, and which should be passed by Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service will be held on 12th January, 2014 in Sinhala,
Tamil and English medium. The venue and the time of the examination will be notified along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons who have not completed the relevant examination
can apply for this examination.
03. Applications.– Applications that should be prepared by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of this circular
must be handed over to the head of the Institute on or before 17th December 2013. The applications that are certified as all the eligibilities
have been fulfilled, should be forwarded to the Director (Examinations), Ministry of Health "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven. Badde gama
Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 23rd December, 2013 through their Heads of Institutions. The Head of Division
should certify the accuracy of contents in each application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9" x 4" inches, affixed w ith stamps
to the value of Rs. 30.00 should be sent along with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private address). Applications
which are received late, incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using an A4 paper based on the specimen form of the application so as to
recommended from 01 to 04(c) on the first front page and from 04(d) to 09 on the second page. Application which do not
conform to above will be rejected any information.
04. Examination fees :
(i) Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, in every subsequent
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application and
cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
(ii) The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2294
05. Admission to the Examination:
(i) Candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly complete
and submit same to the Supervisor at the Examination Centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the examination.
(ii) Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card ; ( c) Driving License ;
(b) Departmental Identity Card ; ( d) Passport.
(iii) If you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination centre and the
index number through the web site ; If you were able to trace your examination centre and the index number as mentioned
above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre in the web site together with a letter attesting your
signature by your immediate superior officer and sit the examination by establishment of your identity. The applicants
who have received the admission card should certify their signature and should be bought. The applicants who have
obtained the certification on their signature will not be entitled to face the examination. (Web site : 
www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consist of three written question papers and a Sinhala/Tamil Viva Voce
test. Each part will receive 100 Marks. Candidates should score a minimum of 50 marks for a pass in each part. The Examination can be
completed at one sitting or at several sittings.
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
7.1 Written Examination :
7.1.1 Establishments Code :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions. Total marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Establishments Code :
(a) Part I - Chapters II, III, V , VI, VII, VIII, IX, XI, XII, XIII, XV , XXIV , XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII
(b) Part II - Chapters XLVII and XLVIII ;
(ii) General Regulations of the Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Orders of the Public Service Commission.
7.1.2 Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries :
Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should answer four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
Syllabus :
Health Manual : Part I - Medical Services
Part II - Laboratory Services
7.1.3 Accounts :
Duration 02 hours. Should answers 04 questions out of 7 questions. Total Marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Financial Regulations -
Chapter I - All Sections
Chapter II - All Sections
Chapter III - All Sections
Chapter IV - All Sections
Chapter V - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6
Chapter VI - All Sections
Chapter VII - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 ;
(ii) Regulations of Stores Accounts of the Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Sections of Finance in the Manual of the Department of Health Services ;
(iv) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2295
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : The Staff Officers in the Department of Health Services will conduct this Examination in
Colombo to examine the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language. Total Marks 100. Skills of Officers to discuss on matters
pertaining to their daily routine duties will be examined.
8. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized Compaign/
Institution. The information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
N. B.– Sinhala medium notification on examination will be effected if any is in the examination notifications published in
Tamil and English mediums.
M. B. L. R AHUMAN,
Deputy Director General (Admin.) II,
for Director General of Health Services.
My No. : CF/EXE/11/2013
Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
11th November, 2013.
Specimen Form of Application
For Office Use Only                
DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINATION FOR PRELIMINARY GRADE
MEDICAL OFFICERS AND DENTAL SURGEONS - MARCH - 2013
01. (a) (i) Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials at the end) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials at the end) :
(iii) Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
  (b) (i)  Designation (Please Mark ‘ 3’ in relevant cage)
(i) Medical Officer (ii) Dental Surgeon
(ii) Date of Internship Appointment :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘ 3’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark "X" against the subjects not
offered) :
Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Sinhala Viva Voce
Establishments Code Tamil Viva Voce
Accounts
03. Medium you sit for the examination (Sinhala/English/Tamil) :––––––––.
04. ( a) Present Station :–––––––––––.
(b) District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
(c) Please mark  " 3" in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (If any or several
examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due to absence of a

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'29
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2013
2296
sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers would be re-attached to a
closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the Director General of Health Services).
Colombo Kandana Hambantota
Kalutara Galle Badulla
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Ratnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
Ampara Vavuniya
(d) Whether a self-addressed envelop in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 30.00 has been attached to the
application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.
(e) (i)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in English Capitals) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
(b) If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I nee d
not affix stamps since I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs. ………… since I repeat
the Examination*, and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and not used.
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Department of Health for the conduct of this Examination and
if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination I agree with whatever decision taken for the
cancellation of my candidature.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of Head of Institution :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………is well known to me and in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in
his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the examination he/she* sits the Examination for the first time/repea ts the
Examination* he/she* need not affix stamps/has affixed stamps to the value of Rs.……… to the Application and he/she* placed his/ her*
signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Institution/Frank/Rubber Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialised Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the particulars
furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* personal file and  he/she* is
eligible to sit for the Examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
Specialised Campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :–––––––––––– .
11–890
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.