

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
293
293
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  15th November, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
01st November, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2013.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Notices under Land Development Ordinance ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 294
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"834- 2013 Tlaf;dan¾ 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'10'25
No. 1,834 – FRIDAY ,  OCTOBER   25,  2013
Note.—  (i) State Employees Development Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 04, 2013.
(ii) Sri Lanka Sethsewa Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 04, 2013.
(iii) Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 04, 2013.
N.B.–  Part  I : III and  Part III  of the Gazette  No. 1,833 of 17.10.2013 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
294
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s  No. : 4/10/35149.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: CPC/LC/4/1/28/136 .
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the  Society Purpose, Boundary Sans
without valasvewa Thrift and Loan Transaction  Co-operative
Society has requested on lease a state land containing in extent
about Par. 10 out of extent  marked Lot No. 02 as depicted in the
Plan No. w' .' ms' 408 situated in the Village of  Galvaggedihena
belongs to the Grama Niladhari Division of  Puwakpitiya coming
within the Area of Authority of  Galevwla Divisional Secretariat in
the District of Matale.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Galvangedihena Land and  Land enjoyed
by H. A. Sudusinghe, D. M. Mallika ;
On the East by : Colombo Trincomalee Highway Road  ;
On the  South by : Land of D. P. Jemis  ;
On the West by : Stone pluck Lade forest (Stone
Reservation).
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions : -
(a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty Years (30) (from 31.07.2013 on
wards);
The Annual rent  of the Lease. – 2% of the  undeveloped
V alue  of the land as per valuation of the  chief Valuer for the
year 2013  ;
(b) The  lessees must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease,  develop the said land,  in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the  Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessees must not use this land for any purposes other
than for the Society  purpose ;
(d) This  lease must  also be subject to the  other  special
conditions stipulated  and imposed  by the  Divisional
Secretary and by other   institutions ;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for  which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a minimum
period of 05 years;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
P
UBUDHI  PREMADASA,
Assistant Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
 No. 1200/6, Land  Secretariat,
‘‘Mihikatha Medura’’,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
03rd  Octomber, 2013.
10-723
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.