

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 4.50                                                                                                                      Postage  : Rs.  3.50
———————————
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 18, 2000
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
———————————
[Certified on  18th  August,  2000]
CENSUS   (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  55   OF 2000
———————————


<!-- page 2 -->

Census (Amendment) Act, No. 55 of 2000 1
2–H 008087— 5,550 (08/2000)
[Certified on 18th August,  2000]
L.D.—O. 54/99.
A N   ACT  TO  AMEND  THE   CENSUS   ORDINANCE
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Census (Amendment)
Act, No. 55  of  2000.
2. Sections 2 and 3 of the Census Ordinance (hereinafter
referred to as the “principal enactment”) as last amended by
Act, No. 16 of 1981 are hereby repealed and the following
sections substituted therefor : —
2. It shall be lawful for the Minister, from
time to time, by Order published in the
Gazette, to direct that a census be taken of the
population, housing, agriculture, livestock,
trade, labour, industry, construction or
commerce or such other matters as he may deem
necessary for ascertaining the demographic,
social or economic condition of the inhabitants
of  Sri Lanka.
3. To superintend the taking of any census,
there shall be appointed an officer to be called
“the Superintendent of Census”. If an
appointment to the office of the Superintendent
of Census is not made, the Director-General of
Census and Statistics appointed under the
Statistics Ordinance shall exercise, perform and
discharge, all such powers, duties and functions
as are conferred or imposed on, assigned to, the
Superintendent of Census by this Ordinance.’.
Short title.
Replacement of
sections 2 and 3 of
Chapter 143.
‘Minister to
direct taking
of census.
Appointment
of Superin-
tendent of
Census.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Census (Amendment) Act, No. 55 of 2000
3. Section 5 of the principal enactment as last amended
by Act No. 16 of 1981 is hereby further amended by the
repeal of subsection (4) of that section and the substitution
therefor, of the following subsection :—
“(4)  Any person committing any breach of any such
rule shall, on conviction before a Magistrate, be liable
to imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding ten
thousand rupees, or to both such imprisonment and fine”.
4. Section 6 of the principal enactment as last amended
by Act No. 16 of 1981 is hereby repealed and the following
section substituted therefor :—
6. The District Secretary of a District
Secretary’s Division shall be the Commissioner
of Census for his District and the Mayor,
Chairman or Special Commissioner, where any
local authority is administered by a Special
Commissioner, of every Municipal Council and
Urban Council shall be Commissioner of
Census for the local area, of such Municipal
Council or Urban Council :
Provided that any other person may be
appointed as Commissioner for such District or
such Municipal Council or Urban Council
area.”.
5. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the substitution—
(1) in the marginal note for the words “Assistant
Commissioners” of the words “Deputy
Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners” ; and
(2) for the words “an Assistant Commissioner of Census
to assist” of the words “a Deputy Commissioner of
Census and an Assistant Commissioner of Census to
assist”.
Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section 6 of the
principal
enactment.
“District
Secretary and
Mayor,
Chairman or
Special
Commissioner
of Municipal
Council or
Urban
Council to be
Commissioners.
Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Census (Amendment) Act, No. 55 of 2000 3
6. Section 9 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act No. 16 of 1981 is hereby further amended by the
substitution, for the words “Commissioner, Assistant
Commissioner”, of the words “Commissioner, Deputy
Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner”.
7. Section 21 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act No. 16 of 1981 is hereby further amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “a term not exceeding three months or
to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees”, of the
words “for a term not exceeding six months or to a
fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees” ;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “a term not exceeding three months or
to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees”, of the
words “a term not exceeding six months or to a fine
not exceeding ten thousand rupees”; and
(3) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “a term not exceeding three months or
to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees”, of the
words “a term not exceeding six months or to a fine
not exceeding ten thousand rupees”.
8. Wherever in any provision of the Statistics Ordinance
or other written law or of any notice, communication, form
or other document issued, made required or authorised by the
Statistics Ordinance or such other written law, the expression
“Director of Statistics” occurs, there shall be substituted for
that expression, the expression “Director-General of Census
and Statistics”, and accordingly, wherever in any such
provisions there is a reference to “Director” denoting the
Director of Statistics, such reference shall be read and
construed as a reference to the Director-General of Census
and Statistics.
9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Amendment of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
Statistics
Ordinance and
other written law.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Census (Amendment) Act, No. 55 of 2000
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.