

<!-- page 1 -->

561 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2007
561
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 563
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd June, 2007, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 08th June, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,502 _ 2007 °Œ¾ł 15 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .06.15
No. 1,502 – FRIDAY ,  JUNE  15, 2007
Note.-(i) Society of Structural Engineers Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 11, 2007.
(ii) Thaliyawaka Sri Ananda Bodhi Cultural Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 18, 2007.
(iii) Sir John Kotelawala Defence Acadamy (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 25, 2007.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2007
562
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B 2 - B 79503

<!-- page 3 -->

563 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2007
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.,
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS AND PROJECT OFFICERS
RECRUITED UNDER THE MINISTRY OF PLAN
IMPLEMENTATION - 2006
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination which
should be passed before reach the Twelfth salary step of
Development Officers and Seventh salary step of Project Officers,
who were recruited under the Ministry of Plan Implementation will
be held in Colombo in October 2007 by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and the closing date for applications will be on 16th
July 2007.
02. Scheme of Examination.– This efficiency bar examination will
consist of the following subjects.
(i) Economic Development/Planning (3h) Marks - 100 -
Subject No : 1
(ii)Social Science/Regional Development (2h)  Marks -100 -
Subject No : 2
Note :
(a) An officer may sit all subjects in one attempt or several
attempts.
(b) A candidate should obtain 40% or above of the marks in
each paper for a pass
03. Subjects :-
(a) Economic Development/Planning (3h)
(i) Economical Situation, Policies and Problems of Sri Lanka
(ii)Project Planning, Implementation and Evaluation
(iii)General Knowledge of Collecting, filing and analyzing
the data
(b) Social Science/Regional Development (2h)
(i) Rural Social Science
(ii)Rural Community of Sri Lanka
(iii)Urbanization of Sri Lanka
(iv) Regional Development
04. Qualifications.– All Development Officers and Project
Officers recruited under the Ministry of Plan Implementation are
eligible to sit for the examination.
05. Method of Application :-
(a) An application form should be prepared on a A4 size
paper using both sides according to the specimen form
appended at the end of this notification. From column 01
to 07 should  be in the first page and 8 upwards should be
in the second page. The form should be filled in by the
candidate’s own handwriting. Keeping a photocopy of the
application form may be useful.
(b) Applications should be sent through the heads of the
Departments by registered post to reach the Commissioner
General of Examinations, National Evaluation and Testing
Services, Department  of Examination of Sri Lanka, P. O.
Box 07, Pelawaththa, Battaramulla on or before 16th July
2007. The name of the examination should be mentioned
clearly on the top left -hand corner of the envelope.
(c) Applications should be prepared in the language in which
the candidates sit for the examination.
(d) Applications which are not in the above relevant format
and do not contain all information and delay to reach will
be rejected without any notification. No. allegation that an
application has been lost or delayed in the post will be
considered.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards together with a copy of the time Table to all
candidates whose applications have been accepted. If a candidate
doesn’t receive his Admission Card at least four days before the date
of the examination, he/she should communicate with the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations, and Foreign
Examinations Division, Sri Lanka Examinations Department,
Pelawaththa, Battaramulla (Telegram : Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla) without delay, informing that he/she has
not received the Adimission Card and giving the following
information. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examination and all candidates are required to follow
rules and regulations to be imposed by him.
(i) Name of the Examination
(ii)Full name of Applicant
(iii)Full postal address
(iv) A photocopy of the application
(v) A photocopy of the cash receipt
(vi) Name of the post office the application registered, number
and the date.
07. Identity.– Candidature will be required to prove their identity
(in respect of each subject) in the examination hall to the satisfaction
of the supervisor. For this purpose any of the following document
will be accepted.
(i) A valid Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for
Registration of Persons
(ii) A valid passport
The Commissioner General of Examinations has the power to
cancel or reject the candidate of any applicant who is unable to
provide any one of the above mentioned documents.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.15
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2007
564
08. Examination Fees.– Fees will be levied from the candidates
who sit for this examination on the following basis :-
(a) For the first sitting Free of charges
(a) For the whole examination after the first sitting Rs. 200
(b) For a single subject Rs.100
A cash receipt obtained from any District/Divisional Secretariat
in the island drawn in favour to the Revenue Head 4000 -20-03-20-
13 of Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed to
the application. Keeping a photocopy of the receipt for the payment
may be useful.
09. Heads of the Departments/Offices are requested to grant
duty leave to officer of their Departments/Offices who have been
issued Admission Cards by the Commissioner General of
Examinations to present themselves at the examinations.
10. Any matter not provided for in these Regulations will be
dealt with direction of this Ministry.
D
HARA  WIJAYA TILAKE,
Secretary, Ministry of Plan Implementation.
Ministry of Plan Implementation.
Colombo 01.
Specimen Application Form
(For office use only)
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR
DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS AND PROJECT OFFICERS
RECRUITED UNDER THE MINISTRY OF PLAN
IMPLEMENTATION - 2006
(Note : This form should be filled correctly and legibly in candidate’s
own handwriting)
Language Medium in which
You sit for the Examination
Sinhala - 2/Tamil -3/English - 4
(Put the appropriate number in relevant cage)
01. (i) Surname with initials (In English capital letters):———.
Ex : SILV A, B. A.
(ii)Surname with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
(iii)Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
(iv) Names denoted by initials (In English Capital Letters)
:———.
02. (i) Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
(ii)Official Address (In English capital letters) :———.
(Admission cards will be posted to this address) :——.
03. Date of Birth :———.
Year                        Month                Date
04. Date of assuming duties as Development officers and Project
Officers  :———.
(The correct date on which duties were assumed should be stated)
Year                        Month              Date
05. Subjects applied for under Para. 2 of the Gazette Notification :
Subject Subject No.
–––––––––
–––––––––
06. Are you sitting for the examination for the first time?:———.
07. If not the first sitting, examination fees paid :
A cash receipt obtained from any District/Divisional
Secretariat in the Island drawn in favor to the Revenue Head
4000-20-03-20-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations
should be affixed to the application. (Keeping a photocopy
of the receipt for the payment  may be useful.)
08. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this application
are correct and also that I am entitled to sit for the examination in
the language medium indicated above. Further, I agreed to follow
the reules and regulations on conducting this examination,
imposed by the Commissioner General of the Examinations.
––––––––––,
Candidate’s Signature.
Date :———.
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of Head of his/
her Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of such
Head of Department of his local head.
09. Attestation.– I certify that Mr/Mrs./Miss ……………… who is
an officer in my Office and who is known to me personally his/
her signature in my presence this …………… day of …………
2007.
––––––––––,
Name :———. Signature of Attester.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
10. Certificate of Head of the Department :
I certify,
(i) That the particulars furnished above have been checked
and found to be correct.
(ii)that the candidate is eligible to sit for this examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department
(Official Seal should be placed)
Name :———.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
06-360
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.