

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
WALPOLA PIYANANDA EDUCATIONAL AND
CULTURAL FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 264]
————————
Presented by Hon. Janaka Bandara, M. P.
 on 22nd August, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on August 12, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Walpola Piyananda Educational and Cultural
Foundation
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2-2d
2-

<!-- page 2 -->

1Walpola Piyananda Educational and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
al Foundation (Gaz)
2—PL 007466—  75 (07/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE WALPOLA PIYANANDA EDUCATIONAL
AND CULTURAL FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
WHEREAS a Board called and known as the “ Walpola
Piyananda Educational and Cultural Foundation” has
heretofore been establish by the Sri Maha Viharaya, Sri Maha
Vihara Road, Pamankada, Dehiwela, for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and
matters connected with the said Foundation according to
the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the formed objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the  advantage to grant
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Walpola Piyananda
Educational and Cultural Foundation  (Incorporation)
Act, No.      of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of
this Act, such and so many persons as now are members of
the 
“Walpola Piyananda Educational and Cultural
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or
shall hereafter be admitted as members shall be a body
corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with
perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“
Walpola Piyananda Educational and Cultural Foundation ”
and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full
power and authority to have and  use a common seal and
alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Walpola
Piyananda
Educational
and Cultural
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Walpola Piyananda Educational and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
PL 005773 Sri Gunarathana Internationa
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote educational and cultural understanding
of other countries for Sangha Members prior of their
going aboard to do Buddha Sasana work to better
prepare them and prevent culture shock;
(b) to assist Sangha Members in their study to other
cultures, traditions and the language of the countries;
(c) to establish and award scholarship, grants and prizes
to deserving Sri Lankan students and to assist them
in their spiritual, philosophical, cultural, scientific
and technical education;
(d) to assist Sri Lankans and Americans to study each
there’s cultures, languages and any other languages
to organize educational tours, to provide hostel
facilities to those who participate in such tours and
exchange education and cultural representatives;
(e) to establish and maintain libraries and to purchase
subscribe and publish books, newspapers,
periodicals and other publications which the
corporation may consider desirable for the
promotion and advancement of its objectives;
(f) to join and collaborate with other local and foreign
associations, Societies or organizations with
objectives similar to those of the Corporations; and
(g) to promote and assist in making eye glasses
available to the needy through corporation with
other local and foreign associations, societies  or
organizations with similar objectives.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Walpola Piyananda Educational and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
al Foundation (Gaz)
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Committee of Management consisting of
the Director General, the Honarary Secretary and the
Honorary Treasurer and not less than eleven other members
as may be provided  for in those rules and elected in
accordance therewith.
(2) The Memebers of the Foundation Chief Incubnent
Ven, Walpola Piyananda Thero, shall be the Director General
for life. The Director General shall be the Chief Executive
Officer of the Corporation.
(3) The first Committee of the Management of the
Corporation shall consist of the member of the Committee
of Management of the  Foundation holding office on the
day preceding the date of the commencement of this Act,
and whose names are specified in the scheduled of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the powers to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
moveable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any
building or structures on any land held  by the Corporation
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carring out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistant with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Walpola Piyananda Educational and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
PL 005773 Sri Gunarathana Internationa
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, power,  duties and  functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) the qualification required to become a member of
the Corporation and of the Board of Directors;  and
(e) the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3)  Every  members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes contributions of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the corporation shall be deposited
to the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Debts due by
and payable
to the centre.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Walpola Piyananda Educational and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
al Foundation (Gaz)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in
law to acquire and hold any property, movable and
immovable which may become vested in it by virtue of any
purchase, grant, lease,  gift, testamentary disposition or
otherwise and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation of the Corporation
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities of the Corporation or for any other purpose, be
liable to make any contribution exceeding the among of
such membership fees as may be due from him to the
Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which, is or are by its or their rules prohibited
from distributing any income or property among their
members.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
Limitation of
Liabilities of
members.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Walpola Piyananda Educational and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
PL 005773 Sri Gunarathana Internationa
13. The seal of the Corporation shall be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such number
of person as may be provided for in the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, who shall  sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence and such  signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a
witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, or
corporate or of any other person except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from, or under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
Seal of the
Corporation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Walpola Piyananda Educational and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
al Foundation (Gaz)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .