

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.12.2018
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
SOUTHERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
Financial (Amendment) Statute of the Southern Provincial Council No. 01 of 2018
I, Gusthingnawadu Shan Wijayalal de Silva, Chief Minister and the Minister in Charge of Finance, Southern Province do
hereby notify that the Financial (Amendment) Statute of the Southern Province No. 01 of 2018, published herewith shall be
enacted from the date 29.11.2018 on which the Hon. Governor’s approval was granted thereof accordingly.
GUSTHINGNAW ADU SHAN WIJAY ALAL DE SILV A,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning ,
Law and Order, Engineering Services, Health and
Indigenous Medicine, Local Government and Transport
and Tourism of the Southern Provincial Council.
At the Chief Secretary’s Office, Galle,
Dated 5th of December, 2018.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – PG4334 – 10 (12/2018)
wxl 2101$20 – 2018 foieïn¾ ui 12 jeks nodod – 2018'12'12
No. 2101/20 – WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2018

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.12.2018
Financial (Amendment) Statute of the Southern Province No. 01 of 2018
Statute to Revise Financial Statute, Southern Provincial Council No. 07 of 1990
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council - Southern Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka:
1 . This statute shall be cited as the Southern Provincial Financial (Amendment) Statute
No. 01 of   2018 of the Southern Provincial Council.
2. Section 104(a)  of the Financial Statute No. 07 of 1990 amended by the Financial (Amendment) Statute
of No. 02 of 1992 (hereinafter referred as the Fundamental Statute) shall be repealed hereby and the
following section shall be substituted instead.
(1) An account that shall be hereinafter referred to as “Account” in this Section and cited as
“Provincial Incentive Fund Account” shall be established.
(2) The aim of establishing the Account shall be as follows:
(a) Granting Incentive Allowances to officers attached to the Department of Provincial Revenue
for assuring the administrative procedures being carried out in respect of the Statutes
which are being administered by the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue.
(b) Providing required financial aids to the welfare activities for the good will of the officers
attached to the Department of Provincial Revenue.
(3) The administration and conduct over this Account shall be executed by a committee consists of
07 members as follows:
(a) Chief Secretary, Southern Province
(b) Secretary to the Governor, Southern Province
(c) Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance), Southern Province
(d) District Secretary, Galle
(e) Provincial Commissioner of Revenue and Two Deputy Commissioners who are under
Provincial Revenue Service by virtue of the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue for the
said activity,
(4) When the decisions are being taken in respect of the activities pertinent to the Account and
administration, such decisions shall become enforceable by the approval of the committee
consisting of 5 members.
(5) ( a) The Account shall be maintained as a current account in a State Bank of Sri Lanka in favour
of the Chief Secretary, Southern Province.
(b) A report over the income and expenditure shall be prepared by the Commissioner before
31st of March in the consecutive financial year and shall be submitted to the Chief Secretary
at the end of each calendar year.
(6) This Account shall be established after crediting an amount of One Lakh Rupees as an initial
deposit.
(7) An amount of finance which is comply to the percentages depicted in the Revenue Heads
described in below mentioned 7(a) and 7(b) shall be semiannually credited to this Account from
the revenue being credited to Provincial Council under the current statutes administered by the
Provincial Commissioner of Revenue.
Short Title.
Amending
Section 104(a)
of the Southern
Provincial Financial
Statute No. 07
of 1990
Establishment
of Provincial
Incentive Account.
Aim.
Administration
of the Account.
Method of
earning finance
to the Account.
104( a)

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.12.2018
3A
(a) Where a tax or charge determined by the provisions of a statute which is operated by the
Provincial Commissioner of Revenue is in default and when the said tax or charge collected
as a revenue and,
Not producing reports prescribed to be presented by a statute executed by the Provincial
Commissioner of Revenue; and an assessment made by an assessor on the basis of
confirming the fact that false statements have been made with regard to a turnover value
mentioned in a report, a value depicted in an instrument when they are checked in accordance
with the provisions of the statute and,
Where the revenue has collected upon a statement issued under the Section 62 of Finance
Statute No. 07 of 1990 on the payment that is to be paid for an instrument,
(a) An Twelve point five percent (12.5%) from the revenue collected thus, and
(b) Five percent (5%) from the revenue collected through fines imposed under any
statute executed by the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue.
Shall be credited to the Fund.
(c) The documents in respect of the revenue earned for the Provincial Council Fund
under the above 7( a) and 7( b) should be maintained by the Provincial Revenue
Commissioner .
(8) The approval shall be given for making payments over the below mentioned facts by the
committee appointed for administrating the Account.
(a) Incentive Allowances and the Incentive Allowances in arreas incur as a result of a salary
revision are granted semiannually to the Public officers attached to the Department of
Provincial Revenue for achieving the objectives of establishing this fund,
(b) Amount of money requires for the welfare of the officers.
(9) Having been recovering the expenditure mentioned in the aforesaid sub section (8) in relevance
to the each and every year, the remaining amount of money after retaining Rs. 10 Lakhs in the
Account shall be credited to the Provincial Council Fund at the end of the year.
(10) W ithdrawal of money from the Account by the cheques or bank drafts shall be executed by two
officers specifically authorized by the Chief Secretary.
(11) The Fi nal Accounts Reports prepared for each calendar year shall maintain subject to the
auditing under Auditor-General in compliance with the provisions of Section 102 of Southern
Provincial Financial Statute No. 07 of 1990.
(12) ( a) The Minister shall have the power to formulate procedural rules from time to time for
setting up the: procedures relevant for the execution of the Account, specimens and the
facts incidential thereto upon the recommendations of the Commissioner.
(b) Procedural rules formulated under the aforesaid ( a) shall be published in the Gazette by
the Minister.
3. In the event of any inconsistency between in Sinhala and Tamil texts, the text in Sinhala shall be
continued in to force.
12  –  761
Payments made
by the Account.
General Facts.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.