

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2339$09 - 2023 cQ,s ui 04 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2023'07'04
No. 2339/09  -  Tuesday,   July  04,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6486 - 406 (07/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
l.d.b. 8/2007 (iii)
SRI  LANkA  SuSTAINAbLE  ENERGY  AuThORITY  ACT, No. 35 Of 2007
ReGulaTiONs made by the Minister of Power and energy under section 67 read with section 36 and section 38 of the 
sri lanka sustainable energy authority act, No. 35 of 2007. 
 Kanchana WijeseKera,
 Minister of Power & energy.
Colombo,
28th June, 2023.
Regulations
 1. These Regulations may be cited as the specific energy Consumption benchmarks Regulations, No. 1 of 2023.
 2. The board of Management (hereinafter referred to as the “board”) of sri lanka sustainable energy authority 
(hereinafter referred to as “authority”) shall, for the purpose of establishing specific energy Consumption benchmarks 
(hereinafter referred to as the “seC” benchmarks) for the facilities categorized according to the international standard 
industry Classification (isiC) as specified in part i of schedule i hereto, act in accordance with the provisions of these 
regulations.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'07'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.07.2023
2a
.
 3. (1) The board shall require such facility: -
 (a) to comply with the seC benchmark specified in Part iii of schedule i hereto in electrical and other forms 
which can be used in operating any energy consuming Facility during a calendar year, measured in kWh/m 2 of 
conditioned space or in kWh per any other output parameter; and
 (b) to provide the authority with the general information relating to the relevant Facility as required in Part 
iV of schedule i hereto.
 (2) The board may direct any person who is responsible for operating a Facility and who shall be referred to as the 
“Facility Manager” to provide a detailed energy consumption report to the authority under the provisions of section 36(2)
(b) of the act, in such form as specified in schedule ii hereto before the lapse of 14 days after the end of each quarter of any 
calendar year.
 (3) The board shall upon the approval of the Facility Manager of a Facility, appoint an employee of the Facility as an 
energy Manager as prescribed by the board to carry out the reporting of the energy consumption information as specified 
under Regulation 3(2) hereto.
 (4) in the event where the board is unable to appoint a suitably qualified employee of the Facility as an energy 
Manager as specified in Regulation 3(3), the Facility Manager shall obtain the services of an energy Manager who is not 
an employee of the Facility duly accredited by the board under section 38 of the act to perform the functions of the energy 
Manager.
 (5) in the event where any Facility Manager fails to provide the required_information under Regulation 3(1 )(b) and 
3(2) of these regulations, any energy Manager or any energy service Provider duly accredited by the board may under the 
provisions of section 36(2)(a) of the act where it considers it necessary, enter and inspect with the consent of the Facility 
Manager any Facility premises, compound or facility, collect information, verify any information or conduct any other 
investigation for the purpose of ensuring that the benchmark specified in part iii of schedule i hereto is being complied with 
by a facility.
 (6) in the event where a specific energy Consumption of a Facility is reported to be at an unacceptable level above 
the seC benchmark of the relevant category of the Facility as given in part iii of schedule i, the board shall call upon 
the Facility Manager to submit a detailed energy audit report and a plan of action on eei&C to reduce the energy usage to 
acceptable level, under the provision of section 37 of the act.
 (7) the Facility Manager shall for the purpose of conducting the energy audit, the preparation of the Prevalent energy 
Consumption (PeC) report and the plan of action on remedial measures, obtain the services of an energy auditor or an 
energy service Provider as the case may be, duly accredited by the board. 
 (8) any energy Manager, energy auditor or any energy service Provider referred to in regulations 3 (4),3 (5) and 
3(7) of these regulations shall be a person having such qualifications as prescribed by the board and appointed as such and 
issued with a certificate of accreditation under the provisions of section 38(1) of the act.
 (9) upon the receipt of the specific energy Consumption (seC) report, the authority may award appropriate ratings 
to facilities, based on the level of energy performance of the relevant category of Facility according to the table of rating of 
energy performance of a Facility, as set out in schedule iii.
 (10) The authority may from time to time publish a list of the ten best performing Facilities in a given category and a 
list of Facilities which fail to comply with these Regulations.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'07'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.07.2023
3a
 3. in these Regulations-
 “act” means the sri lanka sustainable energy authority act, No. 35 of 2007;
“authority” means the sri lanka sustainable energy authority, established by the sri lanka sustainable energy 
authority act, No. 35 of 2007;
“specific energy Consumption benchmark” means the specific energy consumption (seC) exhibited by a group 
of Facilities which exhibit similar operating conditions which can be considered as comparable under 
classifications provided by the four-digit level in the international standard industry Classification (isiC);
“board” means the board of Management of the authority constituted under the provisions of section 3 of the act;
“Category” means the group of Facilities which exhibit comparable operating conditions which can be considered 
as comparable under classifications provided by the four-digit level in the isiC;
“Conditioned space” means the total area of a Facility which are separated from the external environment using 
a building envelope and provided with different level of thermal comfort when compared to the external 
environment;
“eei&C” means the many activities conducted by an entity to improve the energy efficiency and to conserve 
energy in a Facility;
“Facility” means a business, providing service or a manufacturing plant, producing product in single or in multiple 
locations by using building/cluster/condominium including business/commercial activities or housing 
units;
“Facility Manager” means a person responsible for the management and administration of a facility;
“international standard industry Classification (isiC)” means the latest available classification of economic 
activities published by the statistics division of the department of economic and social affairs of the 
united Nations;
“Prevalent energy Consumption (PeC) report” means a report on the likely annual energy use of a Facility in a 
TMy (typical meteorological year), estimated based on the actual energy use, operational aspects and 
other information compiled by an energy auditor to the authority when directed by the authority.
“specific energy Consumption (seC)” means the quantity of energy used in producing, supplying or providing a 
unit of service or good;
“Typical Meteorological year (TMy)” means an artificial and representative single year of hourly weather data 
concatenated by selection of most representative months from available actual series of longer term 
weather data.
sChedule  i
Part I
                                                                                                            ( Regulations 2, 3(1),3(5) and 3(6))
Class Group 471 - Retail sale in non-specialised stores
4711 Retail sale in non-specialised stores with food, beverages or tobacco predominating
4719 Other retail sale in non-specialised stores

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'07'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.07.2023
4a
Classified under Division 47 Retail trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles of ISIC, under Section G  Wholesale 
and retail trade; repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles of the International Standard Industry Classification (Revision 
4) of the united Nations
Class Group 641 - Monetary intermediation
6411 Central banking
6419 Other monetary intermediation
6420 activities of holding companies
6430 Trusts, Funds and similar financial entities
Class Group 649 - Other financial service activities, except insurance and pension funding activities
6491 Financial leasing 
6492 Other credit granting
6499 Other financial service activities, except insurance and pension funding activities, not elsewhere classified
Classified under Division 64 Financial service activities, except insurance and pension funding of ISIC, under Section K 
Financial and Insurance Activities of the International Standard Industry Classification (Revision 4) of the United Nations
 
Part II
 
Qualifying Attributes Description
serviced area: Facilities with a total serviced area above 5,000 m2, in any individual building or the 
total area of separate buildings belonging to a network of branches or franchises of 
an entity. Detailed list of floors, buildings or locations with serviced floor area to be 
given.
Operating hours: entities in daytime operation with less than 16 hours per day open time. a
 schedule 
of standard operating hours of a typical calendar week to be provided.
Part III
Details and Information Description
Curtailed operations: Details of any non-operational buildings, floors or areas during the reporting quarter to be 
provided.
benchmark to be achieved: 180kWh/m
2/ as per year
Reporting frequency: Quarterly, within 14 days of end of each quarter of any calendar year.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'07'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.07.2023
5a
Part IV
General Information
Organisation details: Name of the Organisation:
business registration number: 
Section: G/K Division: 47/64 Group: 471/641/649 Class:
(delete not applicable)
Main business operation (please describe):
address:
Telephone number:
email address:
Website:
electricity account details: account number:
Tariff - category: 
electricity service provider contact point:
Facility Manager information: Name(s) of Facility Manager:
address:
Telephone number:  
signature email address:
energy Manager information: Name of energy Manager:
Nature of engagement: appointed in house/outsourced
Registration number:
address:
Telephone number:
signature email address: 
sChedule  ii
Detailed Energy Consumption Report
                                                                                                                                                             (Regulation 3 (2) )
1. Operation
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday saturday sunday holidays
Opening
Time:
Closing
Time:

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'07'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.07.2023
6a
2. energy systems
electricity (Nominal consumption) 
 
Grid kWh/month self Generation kWh/month
Contract demand k Va diesel Generator kW (capacity)
solar PV kW (capacity)
liquid Fuels (Nominal consumption)                                            Gaseous Fuels (Nominal consumption)
diesel 1/month lP Gas  kg/month
Kerosene 1/month bio Gas  m 3/month
Other Fuels Other Fuels
solid Fuels (Nominal consumption) 
Coal  kg/month Fuel wood kg/month
biomass  kg/month saw dust kg/month
Paddy husk kg/month
Other
3. Facility composition
Building unit identification Total area m2 Serviced area m2
a/C Non a/C
4. energy use data
    electricity
Reporting window Grid Electricity Self Generated Electricity kWh
kVA kWh Diesel Solar PV
Jan
Feb
Mar
 
liquid Fuels - Consumption in litres
Reporting window Generator fuel 
(Diesel) Diesel Furnace oil Kerosene Other
Jan
Feb
Mar

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'07'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.07.2023
7a
Gaseous and Solid Fuels - Consumption in kgs.
Reporting window LP Gas Bio gas Coal Fuel wood Other
Jan
Feb
Mar
5. Output information
Output Product/service description Unit of measure
Product 1
Product 2
Product 3
service 1
service 2
6. Output data
Reporting window Output volume
Product 1 Product 2 Product 3 Service 1 Service 2
Jan
Feb
Mar
7. Specific Energy     
Consumption (seC)
sChedule  iii
Rating of energy performance of facilities
                                                                                                                                                            (Regulation 3( 9))
Column i Column ii
Specific Energy Consumption 
(seC) kWh/m2 per year Rating
seC≤ 90 Five stars     
90 < seC ≤ 120 Four stars    
120 < seC ≤ 140 Three stars
140 < seC ≤ 160 Two stars
160 < seC≤ 180 One star 
seC > 180 Non compliance






<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'07'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.07.2023
8a
 
Frequency Distribution
eOG 07 - 0009
PrinTeD aT The DeParTMenT OF GOVernMenT PrinTinG,  sri LanKa.
Specific Energy Consumption (SEC) kWh/m2 per year