

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
MAHESWARY FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 27 OF 2011
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 25th May, 2011]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 5.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 27, 2011

<!-- page 2 -->

1Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2011
[Certified on 25th  May, 2011]
L.D.—O.(Inc) 21/2010
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MAHESWARY  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as “Maheswary
Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Colombo
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting
the objects and matters connected with the said association
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Maheswary Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 27 of 2011.
2. From an after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Maheswary Foundation (hereinafter referred to as “the
Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate with the perpetual succession under the name and
style of the “Maheswary Foundation”  (hereinafter
referred  to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue,
and be sued, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and
cooperation among all communities of Sri Lanka;
Preamble.
Short title.
General objects of
the Corporation.
Incorporation of
the Maheswary
Foundation .

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2011
(b) to promote and protect human rights, values, and
pluralism in Sri Lanka;
(c) to promote sustainable development in rural areas
by utilizing the natural resources available in the
area;
(d) to promote agricultural and fisheries sectors by
introducing technology to obtain maximum
benefits;
(e) to establish information technology centres island
wide for the advancement of scientific studies;
(f) to strengthen the institutes of higher studies,
encourage research and award scholarships;
(g) to promote social and cultural activities for
enriching different ethnic groups;
(h) to empower women, children, disabled, and
underprivileged people;
(i) to promote and encourage sports, literary and
spiritual activities among pepole;
(j) to coordinate with similar organizations of both
local and foreign and to organize meetings, seminars
conferences etc. for the advancement of its objects;
(k) to obtain and provide grants and other form of
financial assistance for the advancement of the
objects;
(l) to provide every assistance to governmental
agencies from generating employment among
youth;
(m ) to provide lands and houses to landless families
and provide buildings and other facilities to
schools;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2011
(n) to provide infrastructure facilities such as roads and
electricity in villages;
(o) to conduct classes to teach English, Sinhala and
Tamil languages to needy students;
(p) to promote, arrange and organize exhibitions,
lectures, seminars, discussions, workshops and
debates, with a view of accomplishing the
objectives of the Corporation;
(q) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,
magazines and newspapers as are necessary to
achieve these objects;
(r) to engage in income generating activities to raise
necessary funds to the Corporation with a view of
accomplishing the objects of the Corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
account, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds,
to erect any building or structures on any land held by the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers
and servants required for the carrying out of the objects of
the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
other provisions of this Act and the rules made under  section
6, be administered by a Board of Directors consisting of
Chairman, Managing Director, Director of Finance, Director
of Administration, Director Operations, Director Planning
and Director Legal, and a Secretary,  Treasurer and another
nine more members elected in accordance with such rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation.
General powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2011
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Minister Douglas Devanande, shall be the first Chairman of
the Board of Directors. The Chairman shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Corporation.
(3) The first Administrative Council of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Board of Directors of
the foundation holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Board of Directors to
recommend from time to time, at any general meeting of
the members summoned for the purpose and by a majority
of votes of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in like manner be altered, added to
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Council shall be subjected to the
rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donations,
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on account
of the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the
Corporation in one or more banks as the Board of Directors
shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2011
debts due to subscription and contribution payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
9. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount due from such member as membership
fees.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grants,
gifts, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
11.     The seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
 (3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
by a qualified auditor.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor ” means —
(i) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
Seal of the
Corporation.
Audits and
Auccount.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
Immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2011
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such  Institute; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other Institute or Institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
Institute or Institutions shall be determined by the members
of the  Corporation at the time of dissolution or immediately
before the dissolution of the Corporation.
14. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Maheswary Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 27 of 2011
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.