

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s œfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1713$17 – 2011 cQ,s 07 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2011’07’07
No. 1713/17 – THURSDAY, JULY 07, 2011
My No.: CI/1670. 
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Paints and General Industries Ltd, 4th Floor, Propertex Building, 108, W. A. D. Ramanayaka
Mawatha, Colombo 02 of the one part and the Inter Company Employees Union, 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Suboothipura, Battaramulla of the
other part on 22nd day of March 2011  is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative
Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
V. B. P. K. WEERASINGHE ,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
27th June, 2011.
Collective Agreement No. 16 of 2011
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
PAINTS AND GENERAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
AND
INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES UNION
OF
2011 - 2013
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT  entered into between Paints and General industries Ltd, a Company duly registered and having its registered
office at 4th Floor, Propertex Building, 108, W. A. D. Ramanayaka Mawatha, Colombo 02 (hereinafter referred to as "the Employer") and the
Inter Company Employees Union, a Trade Union duly registered and having its registered office at No. 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Sri Suboothipura,
1A-G014770-380 (2011/07)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
Battaramulla, (hereinafter referred to as "the Union"), on this 22nd day of March, Two Thousand Eleven.
Whereas the Union made certain demands of the Employer for the revision of wages and other terms and conditions of their members
employed by the Employer, and parties having arrived at the following terms of agreement, including those which were agreed before the
Commissioner  of Labour - Industrial Relations on 23rd February 2011 agree the following :
1. Parties Covered and Bound. – The terms of this Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and the members of
the Union employed on permanent contracts of employment by the Employer in the Manual/ Operative grades in the Company.
2. Operation of Agreement.– This Agreement shall take effect from 1st January 2011 and, unless otherwise terminated by either
party to this agreement by giving notice to the other under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, shall continue to remain in force
provided, however, that the neither party to this agreement shall give notice of such termination prior to the 30th of November 2013.
3. Salaries. – Employer agrees to revise the salaries of the employees for the duration of the Collective Agreement as follows :
From 1st January 2011 - 8%
From 1st January 2012 - 5%
From 1st January 2013 - 4%
4. Annual Incremental Rates.– The rates & condition of granting annual increments shall remain unchanged.
5. Loan Scheme for Push Bicycles.– Employer agrees to increae the loan to Rs. 6,000/- to buy a push bicycle, once in three years.
6. Attendance Bonus.– Parties agree that the payment and the terms and conditions of attendance bonus scheme shall remain
unchanged.
Provided, However, the Employer agrees to increase it as follows :-
From 1st January 2011 - Rs. 700/- per month
From 1st January 2012 - Rs. 700/- per month
From 1st January 2013 - Rs. 800/- per month
7. Medical Reimbursement.– The Employer agrees to increase the reimbursement of expenses incurred for medical treatment of
employees as given below :-
Year 2011 - Rs. 5,000/- per annum
Year 2012 - Rs. 5,100/- per annum
Year 2013 - Rs. 5,200/- per annum
At the same time, the Union agrees to extend its fullest co-operation to prevent the exploitation by employees of medical facilities obtained
from the company doctor.
8. Death Donation.– The Employer agrees to the following in respect of death donations :
a. To increase the company's monthly contribution towards the death donation society contribution per employee up to
Rs. 60/-.
b. The management agrees to increase the payment to Rs. 5500/- to the Death Donation Society for the purchase of
provisions and to cover the transporation cost of the employees, in the event of a death of a family member.
c. The Company will contribute an amount equal to the collection made from the employees of the company, in the event of
the death of an employee, to be given to the immediate family with the objective of opening a savings account in the name
of the children or the next of kin.
9. The Union, together with their members, hereby undertake that during the period of opertation of this Agreement, they shall
extend their fullest co-operation to the Company to carry out all its lawful activities.
10. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government prescribes increases in salary by any written law, which
shall be applicable to the Company, the Employer shall be entitled to take credit for the increases granted in terms of this Agreement.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
3A
11. The Employer, the Union and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement undertake that they shall not during the
continuance of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to any of the terms and conditions agreed upon herein, and it is also agreed that the
Trade Union and the employees shall not resort to any form of Trade Union action in relation to any dispute connected with or arising out of
any matter covered by this Agreement.
12. Parties also agree to resolve any dispute, whether covered by this agreement or not, in the following manner :-
a. Firstly, the Branch and the Management would attempt to settle such issue/ dispute at the Company level. A written
statement of the dispute shall be forwarded by the Union's branch committee to the Employer, and at least three weeks time
given for the Employer to resolve the dispute.
b. Firstly, the Branch and the Management would attempt to settle such issue/ dispute at the Company level. A written
statement of the dispute shall be forwarded by the Union's branch committee to the Employer, and at least three weeks time
given for the Employer to resolve the dispute. In the event of non - resolution of the dispute at Stage (a) above, parties agree
to meet at the Employers Federation of Ceylon (EFC) in order to resolve such dispute.
c. In the event of non - resolution of the dispute at Stage (b) above, parties agree to resolve the relevant dispute in accordance
with the conciliation proceedings in terms of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.
d. In the event of non - resolution of the dispute at Stage (c) above, the Union agrees that they would give 14 days prior
notice, in writing, before engaging in any Trade Union action.
13. Existing Terms.- Subject to the revisions specifically set out herein, the terms and conditions of employment of employees
covered and bound by this Agreement as at 31st December 2010 shall continue to remain in force.
In witness hereof, parties have set their hands on this 22nd day of March Two Thousand & Eleven, at Colombo.
07-535

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
My No. : CI/ 1793.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Bogala Graphite Lanka PLC, No. 20, Tickell Road, Colombo 08 of the one part and Inter
Company Employees Union, No. 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Sri Subuthipura, Battaramulla of the other part on 3rd day of March, 2011  is hereby
published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
V. B. P. K. WEERASINGHE ,
Commissioner - General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
28th June, 2011.
Collective Agreement No. 15 of 2011
Bogala Graphite Lanka PLC
Collective Agreement 2011
This Collective Agreement is made on this 3rd day of March 2011, pursuant to the Industrial Dispute Act between Bogala Graphite Lanka
PLC, a Company duly registered in Sri Lanka having its registered office at No. 20, Tickell Road, Colombo 08 (hereinafter referred to as the
‘‘Employer’’) of the one part and Inter Company Employees Union, being a Trade Union duly registered and having its registered office at No.
12/2, Weera Mawatha, Sri Subuthipura Battaramulla, (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’) of the other part.
Witnesseth and hereby agreed between the parties as Follows ;
1. Title.– This Agreement will be called and known as Bogala Graphite Lanka PLC ‘‘Collective Agreement (CA) 2011’’.
2. Parties covered and bound .- This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and Members of the Union who are
Employed by the Employer as permanent Employees on the date of signing of this Agreement, and permanent Employees who shall be
recruited after the said date, except the Clerical, Supervisory, Executive and Managerial Staff.
3. Date of Operation and Duration.- This Agreement will come into effect from 1st February 2011 and will cover a minimum period
of 1 year.
The Agreement will thereafter continue to be in force and will not end till a new Collective Agreement called and known as ‘‘Collective
Agreement 2012’’ will be signed, or till terminated in writing by either party with one month's notice to the other and according to the
provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.
4. General terms and Conditions.- The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall as from the date hereafter and during the
continuance in force of this agreement be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment between the Employer and the Employees
covered and bound by this Agreement.
5. Income Structure.- with effect from the date of operation, the Employer shall secure for each Employee covered and bound by this
Agreement the following income structure :
- Basic Salary in accordance with the approved Salary Scale of the Employer and with the Sri Lankan laws, payable monthly
- Production incentive (Formerly known in Bogala as ‘‘PVD’’), Calculated as shown in the paragraph 7, payable monthly
- Annual Bonus based on Productivity targets achievement, calculated as shown in the paragraph 8, payable yearly in two installments
in April and in December.
- Other Statutory payments

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
5A
6. Salary Increase.- The Employer will add to each employee's basic salary a sum of Rs. 2,500/- starting from February 2011.
7. Production incentive scheme (formerly known as ‘‘PVD’’) with effect from the date of operation, the monthly Production Incentive
(PI) will be calculated according to the following formula :
PI= (A+B) *(C/D) Where
A= attendance allow.+ Interim allow + UG allow +Balance allowance of CA 2006/2008
Attendance allowance =  Rs. 500
Interim allowance =  Rs. 400 (Considered only for the Underground Division)
Underground allowance =  Rs. 440 for Manual & Operatives in underground Division only
=  Rs. 380 for Supervisory in Underground Division only
Balance allowance of CA 2006/ 2008 =  Rs. 2500/-
B= rate agreed with the Union shown in the table below (in Rs.)
Manual and Operative Grades
SP I II III IV V VI
Underground 2500 2250 2100 1950 1900 1850 1800
Processing 2500 2250 1850 1700 1600 1350 1300
Plant Engineering 1450 1400 1350 1325 1300 1200 1150
Transport 1400 1350 1100 750 700 650 600
Estate & Admin 1200 950 700 600 550 500 450
C = Calculated monthly individual bonus points in Rs. (See Calculation in Paragraph 8)
D = base point for bonus calculation  (See Calculation in Paragraph 8)
8. Annual Bonus Based on Productivity :- With effect from the date of Operation, the Employer and the Union agree upon the
following calculation of the Annual Bonus (AB) based on productivity achievements:
AB = Sum of the 12 months individual bonus points (C) in Rs.
For one month, the calculation is shown below
C = (AP/TP)*D
where
AP = Achieved Productivity by individuals or group of individuals established monthly
TP = Targeted productivity established monthly by the Management for individuals or group of individuals
D = Base Point established for year 2011 (Rs. 1975/ -)
The Annual Bonus Points are calculated each month for each employee and if qualified, the equivalent in Rupee value will be paid,
each year as follows:
In April - December (Previous year) to March
In December - April to November
9. Welfare Facilities :- With effect from the date of Operation, the following welfare facilities will be altered or provided as follows:
1. When, and if passing, the Grade 5 exam, a Scholarship of Rs. 1,000/= only will be granted to the qualified children of
the employees.
2. A gift up to the value of Rs. 500/= will be given to each employee who will be retiring after reaching the age of 55/ 60.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
3. The Employer will introduce the price Control for the sales of the food products in the Worker's Canteen to assure a
correlation with the prices practiced outside the Company. The Company's Estate products will be sold through the
Canteen or given to the Employees for ceromonies.
4. The Distress Loan will be granted within a period of one month after receiving the required details, in accordance with
the currently established regulations.
5. The Employer will organize an Annual Trip - 2011 during two consecutive holidays for all employees which includes
transport, Food and Accommodation. If in case of non availability of two consecutive holidays in 2011 for this annual
trip, in such situation to work on a Public holiday in lieu of working day which is to be declared for annual trip.
All the other welfare facilities agreed upon in the "CA 2010" and not altered above will be continued as agreed
previously.
10. Safety  Equipment.- The Employer shall supply to each employee the Safety Equipment established as necessary in accordance
with the Company regulations and the Union agrees to Convince the employees to wear it, failing which the Employer is entitled to take
disciplinary action against such employees.
11. Working Hours. - Depending on exigencies of business, the Employer is entitled, in consultaion with the Union, to change the
current working hours of the Company.
The Union agrees that when all the preparative action is completed, the underground Employees will work continously at their
working places. In this regard, the Employer will provide a free light meal at the beginning of the shift to be taken and consumed at the working
place. In addition a main meal will be provided to each employee on surface, at the Company's Canteen, at the end of the shift.
The Union also agrees to comply with the Main Shafts riding schedule introduced by the Employer.
The details regarding the above are given in the Annex 1.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
7A


<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
2A- G14770

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
9A
12. Unauthorized Absence.- The following schedule will apply with regard to unauthorized absence. The prevalling disciplinary
action for unauthorized absence will be applicable on a pro rata basis.
01 to 12 months 10 Days
13. Medical certificates on Grounds of Sickness/ Injuries .- The Union agrees that only Government Hospitals Medical Certifi-
cates are to be considered to justify absence due to sickness or Injuries.
14. Transferes.- It is a condition of employment that every employee is liable to be transfered from one mine of the Employer to
another or from one Department/ Section to another. If the Management is of the opinion that training is necessary, such training will be given
to the employees. A transfer will not affect the salary of the employee. However, the allowances, Incentives or bonus payments will be
according to the schemes applicable to that particular Department/ Section to which the employee has been transferred.
Without any deductions to the salary an Underground employee will be entitled only on medical grounds to be transferred to the
Surface for a maximum period of two weeks. If the period exceeds two weeks the salary will be subject to a reduction according to the present
scheme that is in operation. This is applicable only for personal sickness covered by relevant medical certificates.
15. Half days Leave/ Leave.-
1. The present scheme applicable under the Collective Agreement 2006 - 2008 will be continued.
2. With a view to get the benefit of a long weekend just after the monthly salary payments are made, all Employees agree
to work on a Poya Day or Mercantile Holiday (-except Vesak & Poson Poya) in given month and the Employer will
grant a holiday on a working day in lieu of working on the poya day or the mercantile holiday.
3. For Sinhala New year, the company offers one holiday (except government declared holidays for the New Year) & for
the rest of working days during that period, employees should use their personal leave. (company will declare the
holidays in advance)
4. When deciding a date for Annual General Meetings of unions, It is required to discuss with the management for
allocating one Saturday for the same.
5. When getting leave to attend Annual General Meetings or any other meetings, It should be discussed with the
Management in advance & get approval to work in another day in lieu of the leave date.
16. Insurance Benefits.-
1. As per the agreement with the Insurance company, benefits will be extended to all permanent Employees covered by
this agreement.
2. The funeral expences paid by the Employer to an immediate family member of the Employee, will be Increased from
Rs. 9,000/- to Rs. 13,000/-.
17. Disciplinary Action.- The employees shall be covered and bound by the current Disciplinary Procedure of the Company.
18. Trade Union Action.- The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and
severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of the Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of
Trade Union Action against the Employer in respect of any dispute covered by this Agreement. Disputes arising out of matters not covered by
this agreement, parties agree to follow the dispute settlement procedure set out in the check - off agreement signed between parties dated 15th
January 2002.
19. Interpretation.- If any dispute arises regarding the interpretation of this Agreement, parties agree to refer the matter to the
Commissioner - General of Labour and abide by the ruling given by him.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
07-536
My No. : CI/ 1703.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Limited, No. 21, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 of the one
part and the Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya and Rakshana Sewaka Sangamaya, No. 301, T. B. Jaya Mawatha, Colombo 10 and No.
288, Union Place, Colombo 02 of the other part on 27th day of January, 2011  regarding the Executive Grade Employees is hereby published
in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
V. B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE ,
Commissioner - General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
27th June, 2011.
Collective Agreement  No. 11 of 2011
Collective Agreement for executive grades
2010-2013
Between
Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Limited
and
Members of
Rakshana Sewaka Sangamaya
and
Sri lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya
This Collective Agreement made and entered into on the 27th of January 2011 between SRI LANKA INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED., having its registered office at No. 21, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Employer’ of the one part and

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
11A
the SRI LANKA NIDAHAS SEWAKA SANGAMAYA AND RAKSHANA SEWAKA SANGAMAYA, being a Trade Unions duly
registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance and having its Registered offices at No. 301, T. B. Jaya Mawatha, Colombo 10 and No. 288,
Union Place, Colombo 02 respectively, (hereinafter referred to as ‘Unions’) of the Other Part Witnesseth :
WHEREAS the Unions have shown to the satisfaction of the Employer that it represents a majority of the Executive Grade Employees
Employed by the Employer.
AND WHEREAS it is the desire of both the Unions and the Employer to enter into an Agreement which will ensure the peaceful
adjustment and settlement of all disputes which may arise between the Employer and its Employees and/or the Unions and the promotion of
industrial peace, service levels, productivity, quality and attendance.
NOW THEREFORE for and in consideration of the above premises and the mutual terms and conditions hereinafter set out, the Unions
and the Employer agree as follows ;
1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known and referred to as ‘THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT FOR EXECUTIVE GRADES
2011-2013’
2. Date of Operation and Duration.- This Collective Agreement  shall be effective from the First Day of December Two Thousand Ten
and may be terminated by either party with one month's written notice (Thirty days) to the other, provided however that neither party shall give
such notice prior to the Thirtieth day of November, Two Thousand Thirteen. Any notice of termination of thisAgreement given by either party,
prior to the Thirtieth day of November, Two Thousand Thirteen, Shall not be regarded as valid notice and shall be of no avail.
In the event that either party deems it necessary to review any terms and conditions of this Agreement, negotiations on same will
commence by First September Two Thousand Thirteen.
3. Persons covered and bound.- This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Unions, and all the Executive Grade Staff
only who are employed on permanent contracts of employment by the Employer at its work places in Colombo Head Office, Branches and
other locations operated by the Employer, and who are members of the Unions.
4. Declaration of Principle .-
(a) The Employer and the Unions and the employees covered and bound accept the principle that the special consideration
affecting the company are such that wage and salary rates are a proper subject for collective bargaining between the Employer
and the Unions, and that the actions of other employers including government Corparations and the Government of Sri
Lanka in their capacity as employers of labour, regarding the amount and timing  of Wage increases are not automatically
relevant in the context of the Employer except where otherwise provided by legislation.
(b) In cases in which Government does provide by legislation for benefits including increases in wages, gratuity, bonus etc., the
following shall apply -
(i) When such benefits are more favourable to the benefits stipulated only the difference between such benefits
provided by such legislation and the benefits stipulated herein, shall be added to the said benefits stipulated herein.
(ii) When such benefits are equal or less favourable to the benefits stipulated herein, they shall not be added to or
compounded with the said benefits stipulated herein.
(c) The stipulations contained in Para (b) above are without prejudice to the principle contained in Para (a) above.
5. Rights and responsibilities of employer.- Selection, placement, distribution, transfer and promotion of personnel, laying
down  of working hours as per statutory laws, working programmes, planning and control of Branch operations, introduction  of new
policies or improved operational methods, expansion of business facilities, establishment of quality and operating standards, maintenance
of efficiency, the consequence thereof, maintenance of discipline in the work place and for that purpose taking necessary disciplinary action
against staff within the framework of the existing law, regulations and standing orders as well as other inherent rights of an employer, are
exclusively the rights and responsibilities of the Employer. Recruitment, selection, placement and promotions of employees will depend
only on Company requirements, and will not be based purely on experience. However, Management acknowledges that the unions may
raise any grievance or dispute in the opinion of the Unions that may have occurred to any of their members. The Company policy on staff
promotions, transfers, over time and loans will be introduced by the Employer within three months of signing this agreement with the
concurrence of the union.
6. General terms and conditions of employment.- The terms and coditions of this agreement shall as from the date hereof and
during the continuance in force of this Agreement be deemed to be included in all the contracts of employment between the Employer and the
Employees covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of employment be written or oral or whether employment was

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
subsisting as at the date hereof or shall come into being at any time after the date hereof but during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
Provided, that in the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and any pre existing terms and
conditions or practices, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall prevail.
7. Variation of terms and conditions of employment or benefits .-
(a) The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary or add to all any of the paractices,
terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this agreement or
all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the workers covered and bound by this Agreement, other than by mutual
agreement.
(b) This Agreement shall be deemed to be a full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as all matters raised by
the Unions or incidental thereto and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion of
this Agreement.
(c) Remaining anomalies, if any, will be looked in to on a case basis and corrected as mutually agreed by the employer, the
unions and the respective employees. Within a reasonable period of time.
8. Wages  .-
(a) As from the First day of December Two thousand Ten the Employer will grant an increase in wages as set out in table 1,
clause (d) i, hereof, also as a full and final settlement of any salary anomalies that may exist in relation to employees covered
and bound as represented by the Unions, subject to 7 (c) above ;
(b) The basic salary, cost - of -living allowance, Interim allowance 1, Budgetary Relief Allowance and other personal allowances
excluding Job-Related Allowances will be consolidated to form a new Consolidated Salary for future calculations and
thereafter,
(c) In pursuance of objectives set out in (b) above a Cost-of-Living Allowance (CLA) will be introduced with effect from
December Two Thousand Ten in terms of which any increases in the Colombo Consumers Price Index [CCPI (Base Year
2002)] beyond the figure of 225.8 (Base figure) will be applied each month and paid at the rate of Rs. 56.91 (Rupees Fifty
Six Cents Ninety One) per point. The CLA will be capped at the point when it reaches the average value achieved in the
previous two years (2009/10). The CLA cap will be computed using the average of the CLA for the two years, 2009 and
2010. (i. e. (415.00+699.00)/2 = Rs. 557.00) and maintained thereafter during the year. If in the event such value falls below
the ‘capped value’ at any given time, the reduced value shall apply. In the event there being an abnormal incease in the value
of the CLA for a consecutive period of three months, the afore-stated formula in arriving at the CLA value will be reviewed
and revised with the concurrence of the parties under the guidance and advice of the Ministry of Finance.
(d) This revision will be implemented in three elementary increases as follows :
(i) A Fixed increase between Rs. 6000/- to Rs. 7500/- based on job Grade for non-sales office staff, and Rs. 4000/- for
Sales and rate-based Technical Staff, as described in Table 1 below. This includes the Rs. 2,500/- interim allowance
granted and form part and parcel of this salary revision.
Job Grade Fixed increase
Non-Sales Sales Technical
staff staff staff
Executive -1 7,500.00 4,000.00 4,000.00
Executive - 2 7,000.00 4,000.00 4,000.00
Executive - 3 6,500.00 4,000.00 4,000.00
Executive - 4 6,000.00 4,000.00 4,000.00
Table 1
(ii) A Service Element of Rs. 300/- per each completed year in service for all staff. This element is a one-off adjustment
only and will not be continued thereafter.
(iii) Having applied the aggregate of (i) and (ii) above to the consolidated salary, if an individual salary is below the
minimum point in the salary range, such employees will be placed at the beginning of the scale applicable to his/her
grade.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
13A
(iv) This outcome will be rounded to the nearest 100 using simple rounding formula
(v) The wage for December 2010 shall be a consolidated wage, and thereafter.
(e) An annual increment equivalent to 2.5% of the basic- consolidated salary will be granted to employees covered and bound
with effect from First February, Two Thousand Twelve and First February, Two Thousand Thirteen.
9. Annual Bonuses and Statutory contributions.- The annual bonus schemes applicable in the year 2010 will be continued in the
tenure of this agreement. Contributions made by the employer and employee on statutory payments such as EPF, ETF and gratuity will
continue at the same rates as in year 2010.
10. Work Practices.- Both the Employer and Unions agree that the work practices of the company shall be those that are specifically
stipulated in contracts of employment of employees including job descriptions, existing policies, practices, both existing and those that maybe
varied from time to time by the company due to new policies being introduced or in view of amendments to existing policies, procedures,
practices, and job descriptions to meet requirements of the company.
11. Grievances and disputes procedure.- In the event of any dispute of grievance, arising between an employee or employees and the
Company or between the Union and the Company, the Grievance Handling Procedure of the company shall be followed for the settlement of
such dispute or in resolving such grievance. It is agreed by the Employer to work with the Unions and their members to work towards finalising
a Grievance Handling Procedure within a three month period from signing this agreement with the concurrence of the Union.
12. Trade Union Action.- The Union and the staff who are members of the union covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and
severally agree with the Company that during the continuance in force of this agreement they shall not engage in any form of trade union action
in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement and also not engage in any action that can bring the management and the institution into
disrepute and harm the goodwill of the Company in general. Without the Prejudice to 11 above.
13. Consequences of termination of agreement.- On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, facilities and conces-
sions enjoyed by the Union and / or its members under this agreement shall ipso facto cease. Employee benefits as per the Collective agreement
will remain unchanged provided Workmen continue with the agreed work practices, terms and condition stipulated in this agreement.
14. Breaches of the Agreement.- If in the opinion of the Company and the Employer's Federation of Ceylon, either of the Unions or
its members have committed a breach of this Agreement, then and in such event the Company reserves to itself the right to withdraw all of any
of the facilities or benefits granted to the employees, or Union, 7 days after raising such breach the Union in writing, without prejudice to the
Company's right to restore such facilities or benefits upon such terms and conditions as the Company and the Employers' Federation of Ceylon
may decide. The Union will be entitled to dispute the justification of such withdrawal.
If in the openion of the unions, the Employer has committed a breach of this agreement then and in such event, the unions woild have
the right to refer such matter to the commissioner of labour.
15. Interpretation of Agreement.- Any dispute over the interpretation of this Agreement shall be settled by conciliation by the
commissioner general of labour or voluntary arbitration in terms of the provisions of the Industrial Dispute Act (1950)
16. Definitions.- Unless the context otherwise requires the following words shall have the following meaning.-
(a) ‘‘Employee’’ or ‘Staff’’ shall mean an employee in the permanent grades in the non-executive categories and covered and
bound by this Agreement.
(b) ‘‘Dispute’’ shall have the same meaning as an ‘‘Industrial Dispute’’ in the Industrial Disputes Act (1950) as amended or in
any Act enacted by the Parliament to replace the Industrial Disputes Act Subject to the Proviso that it shall not include a dispute
involving a variation of this Collective Agreement.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s œfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011’07’07
PART  I: SEC . (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2011
07-537
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA