

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 73]
————————
Presented by Hon. Shehan Semasinghe for Anuradhapura District
on 27th January, 2016
(Published in the Gazette on December 07, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
2-2d
2-
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2—PL 009700— 225  (03/2012)
ANURA VIDANAGAMAGE PRAJA SANWARDANA
PADANAMA (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Anura Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana Padanama

<!-- page 2 -->

1Anura Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana
Padanama (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 009700—225  (01/2016)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ANURA VIDANAGAMAGE PRAJA
SANWARDANA PADANAMA
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Anura
Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana Padanama” has been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the Foundation according to the rules agreed
to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Anura Vidanagamage
Praja Sanwardana Padanama (Incorporation) Act,
No.      of 2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as presently are members of
the “Anura Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana Padanama”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred
to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under
the name and style of the “Anura Vidanagamage Praja
Sanwardana Padanama” and by that name  may sue and be
sued in all courts with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the Anura
Vidanagamage
Praja
Sanwardana
Padanama.

<!-- page 3 -->

Anura Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana
Padanama (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide education, grant scholarships, assist pre-
school children, promote educational and sports
activities and particularly help underprivileged
poor children to gain education and vocational
training;
(b) to help disabled persons, elderly and mentally
handicapped to overcome their suffering and assist
them to lead a better life and improve their living
conditions;
(c) to assist unemployed youth and those who have
lost their livelihood and provide opportunities for
gainful employment and vocations by way of
facilities, accommodation, training and other
assistance to regain self sufficiency and to
accomplish their aspirations and lifestyles;
(d) to enhance living standards of low income and
disadvantaged families and train and assist them to
be self sufficient and engage in self employment
ventures and encourage them to participate in
economic, cultural and social and sports activities
and provide opportunities to improve their quality
of life and promote well-being;
(e) to undertake industrial and community
development projects and encourage the
participation of people in programmes and
activities for their advancement;
(f) to assist and support those affected and displaced
by natural disasters and other events caused by
natural phenomenon and those affected and
displaced by disasters and events caused other than
by nature and provide their necessities and help
them to regain their life style and also to achieve a
better standard of living; and
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30
35

<!-- page 4 -->

3Anura Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana
Padanama (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(g) to do all such other acts, matters and things as are
incidental or conducive to the attainment of the
objectives of the Corporation.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Management appointed in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Board of Management of
the Foundation holding office on the day preceding the date
of commencement of this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in sub-
section (1) of this Section Mr. Ravendra Anura
Vidanagamage shall be the first Chairman of the Board of
Management of the Corporation.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to purchase, rent, lease or otherwise acquire lands
or buildings which may be required for the purposes
of the Corporation;
(b) to borrow or raise money with or without interest
for the purposes of the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close bank
accounts;
(d) to invest any funds which are not immediately
required for the purposes of the Corporation in such
manner as the Board of Management may think fit;
(e) to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants
donations and gifts of all kinds;
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Anura Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana
Padanama (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any
person, company or body of persons for the purposes
of the Corporation;
(g) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trusts and conditions
affecting any movable or immovable property;
(h) to appoint, employ, dismiss and terminate services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation; and
(i) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary,
incidental or conducive to the  accomplishment of
all or any of the objects of the Corporation.
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting to make
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the election, appointment or nomination of the
members of the Board of Management and their
powers and duties and terms of office;
(b) the powers, conduct of duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(c) the procedure to be observed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Corporation and of
the Board of Management, the time, place, notice
and agenda of such meetings, the quorum therefor
and the conduct of business thereat;
(d) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership of Board of Management and of the
Corporation;
Rules of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Anura Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana
Padanama (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and
maintenance and audit of the accounts; and
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of
the Corporation and the accomplishment of its
objects.
(2) Any rule made under sub-section (1) may at a like
meeting and in like manner be amended, altered, added to or
rescinded.
(3) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act, shall, in so far, as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, or any other written law be deemed to
be  rules of the Corporation made under this Section.
(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Fund of the Corporation shall consist of—
(a) all moneys lying to the credit of the Foundation on
the day immediately preceding the date of the
commencement of this Act; and
(b) all moneys that may accrue to the Corporation after
the date of commencement of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of all income and expenditure of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by an auditor appointed by the Corporation.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of the commencement of this
Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to and all subscriptions and fees payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

Anura Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana
Padanama (Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
20
25
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any
property whatsoever the same shall not be paid to, or
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to the objects of the
Foundation and which shall prohibit the distribution of its
or their income and property among its or their members to
an extent at least as great as is imposed on the Foundation
and such institution or institutions to be determined by
members of the Corporation, before the time of dissolution
and if and so far as effect cannot be given to the aforesaid
provision then to some charitable object.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be  in the custody
of the Board of Management and it shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except with the sanction of the
Corporation and in the presence of two Directors at least one
and the Secretary of the Corporation who shall sign their names
to the instrument in token of their presence and such  signing
shall be independent of the signing  of any person as a witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic of Sri Lanka or of any body politic
or corporate or any other persons except such as are mentioned
in the Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Anura Vidanagamage Praja Sanwardana
Padanama (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .