

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1129
    Page
Post  - Vacant … … …  ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"118 – 2019 wfm%a,a ui 05 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'04'05
No. 2,118 –  FRiday ,  aPRil 05, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th april, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th april, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1127-B 81510- 5,403 (04/2019)
Note.–  (i) State land (Special Provisions) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of March 22, 2019.
 (ii) Motor Traffic (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of March 29, 2019.
N. B.–   Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,117 of 29.03.2019 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1128
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1129
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
RECRuITmENT Of b.SC. (NuRSING) 
GRADuATES fOR ThE ORIENTATION AND 
CO-ORDINATION COuRSE IN 
NuRSING – 2018-2019
aPPlicatioNS are called from eligible Sri lankan 
citizens who have obtained the B. Sc. in Nursing from 
National Universities recognized by the University Grants 
commission to recruit to the orientation and co-ordination 
course in nursing of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine.
01. From the applicants, 25% of the annual training 
requirement will be selected based on a priority list prepared 
according to the effective date of the degree and GP a and 
considering  the existing vacancies.
 
02. Other Educational Qualifications relevant to the Post :
Should have completed B.Sc. in Nursing in a National 
University recognized by the University Grants commission.
03. Physical fitness and other qualifications :
 (a) Each candidate should be fit physically to serve in 
any part of Sri lanka.
 (b) Should be a fit physically to discharge duties in 
the post.
 (c) Should be a Sri lankan citizen.
 (d) Should be excellent in character.
 (e) Both males and females may apply.
 (f) Should be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 35 years of age as at 30.04.2019.
 (g) the effective date of the degree should be a date 
prior to 30.04.2019.
04. Method of Application :
 (a) the application should be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen form appended to this. Papers 
in the size of a4 should be used for this. cages 
from 1 to 12 should appear on the first page and 
cages from 13 to 15 should appear on the second 
page and 16 should appear on the third page.
 (b) Receipt obtained by paying the amount of                         
Rs. 300 to the credit of the account of the 
director General of Health Services - collection 
of Examination Fees No 7041318 of the Bank 
of Ceylon Thaprobane Branch should be affixed 
in the cage given in the application. this fee 
is neither refunded nor allowed to transfer to 
another examination for any reason.
 (c) Signature of the applicant should be attested 
by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service /an officer in the Sri Lanka Educational 
administrative Service/a Principal of a 
Government School/ a Justice of the Peace/
an Attorney at - Law/ or an officer who holds 
a permanent and pensionable post in the Public 
Service and obtains a consolidated salary not 
less than Rs. 240,360/- per annum.
 (d) on the top left hand corner of the envelop in 
which the application is enclosed, it should be 
mentioned the words “Recruitment of B.Sc. 
(Nursing) Graduates for orientation and co-
ordination course in Nursing – 2018 - 2019 
and the relevant degree and the academic 
year. the applications should be sent by 
registered post to reach the director (admin) 
0l, Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine,’’Suwasiripaya”, 385,Rev. Baddegama 
Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, colombo 10, 
before 30.04.2019
Note: Candidate should have satisfied qualifications 
given under above (2) and (3) and all other 
qualifications by 30.04.2019 in all respects.
5. applications of the employees of pubic or semi-
government institutions should be sent through the respective 
Head of department. and you should also note that this is 
an external recruitment and you cannot be reverted to the 
current post if you are able or not be able to complete the 
relevant course successfully.
6. applications which are not in compliance with the 
terms of the general circular, incomplete, not in compliance 
with the specimen form of application, not completed 
the basic qualifications and in which no bank receipt is 
affixed and not registered on or before 30.04.2019 will be 
rejected without any notice and receipt of applications is not 
acknowledged.
7. From the applicants who have fulfilled above 
qualifications, applicants selected based on a priority list 
prepared considering the effective date of the degree and the 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1130
GPa are only called for the interview. a general interview 
will be conducted by an interview board appointed by 
the Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine and the interview board will check the 
qualifications mentioned in the Nursing Service Minute and 
this Gazette notification and the physical fitness.
Note :
 (a) the number of the recruitments to the training 
and the number of applicants called for interview 
will be decided by the Secretary of the Ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine on the 
exigency of service.
 (b) No section contained herein shall be deemed to 
imply or be construed to mean that all those who 
attended the interview are recruited to the training.
 (c) Particulars of the applicants who are qualified, 
disqualified at the interview and those who 
are not selected are published on the web site                               
www.health.gov.lk and no one will be informed in 
person.
8. applicants should produce at the interview the 
originals of the following documents and the copies certified 
by himself / herself :
 (a) Birth certificate,
 (b) Originals of the degree certificate and the 
certificate which indicates the GPA (Certified 
copies of these documents should be sent along 
with the application),
 (c) National identity card or valid passport or driving 
license.
9. Procedure of training :
Course Duration of the course Medium
orientation and 
coordination 
course in nursing
06 Months English
 (a) Selected applicants are attached to the relevant 
training schools to follow the orientation and 
coordination course. the course should be 
followed in the medium of English.
 (b) trainees admitted to the training schools shall 
be subject to the rules and regulations of the 
training schools and any other order imposed by 
the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine from time to time.
 (c) training of those who do not complete the training 
successfully at the end of the training period, 
whose work and conduct are not satisfactory or 
who fail to adhere to terms and conditions of the 
training school may be terminated at any time 
without compensation.
 (d) during the period of training, the monthly 
allowance paid to the student nurses in the third 
year is paid subject to the provisions given in 
Public administrative circular 03/2016.
 (e) at the time he/ she is admitted to the training, 
he/ she should enter in to an agreement and a 
surety bond with the director General of Health 
Services that he/ she will complete the training 
successfully, not abandon the train ing course 
and serve in the post concerned in the hospital of 
relevant provincial council or the line Ministry 
to which he/she is appointed or in department 
of Health for at least a period of 5 years if an 
appointment is granted at the completion of 
the said training. the agreement and the surety 
bond should be submitted to the EtR branch on 
the same day of registration. if he/ she resigns 
from the training or leaves the train ing during 
the training period or his/her training has to be 
terminated in terms of above (c) or fails to serve 
in the post concerned in the hospital of relevant 
provincial council or the line Ministry to which 
he/she is appointed or in department of Health 
for a period of 5 years after the appointment             
he/she should refund the department of Health 
the expenses incurred by the Government and 
the amount of the surety bond. if not legal action 
will be taken to recover the said amount as per 
the agreement.
10. Terms of engagement.– at the end of the training, 
grant or not grant of permanent appointments to the post 
concerned will be decided based on the number of vacancies 
existing at the time. if the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine decided to grant permanent 
appointments to the post concerned, candidates will be 
appointed to the post of Staff Nursing Officer in Grade III 
subject to the conditions in the scheme of recruitment 
applicable to the training they were admitted and considering 
the number of vacancies and they will be placed on the 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1131
salary relevant to the salary code Mt -7 2016 mentioned in 
Schedule i of the Public administration circular 03/2016. it 
shall be noted that if a candidate is granted an appointment, 
he /she will be paid salary according to the provisions in 
Schedule ii of the Public administration circular 03/2016.
11. Particulars regarding the educational and other 
qualifications should be mentioned carefully and accurately 
in filling the applications. If the certificates were found to 
be false after admission to the training or after receiving an 
appointment, action will be taken to refer the case to the 
criminal investigation department in order to take legal 
action and to cancel the appointment and dismiss from the 
training/ post and disciplinary action will be taken and his/
her name will be entered into the blacklist which is an index 
of the names of persons who will not be employed by the 
government. Further, action will be taken to recover the 
allowance paid to him/ her during the period of training, 
expenses borne by the Government and the sum of the 
surety bond.
12. Selected applicants should submit themselves to a 
medical examination within the first month of the training to 
prove that they are physically and mentally fit to follow the 
course concerned and to serve in any part of the island and 
the applicants found not to be fit in the medical examination 
will not be eligible to continue the course.
13. trainees have no right to engage either in trade union 
activities or in private practice during the period of training. 
if found to have done so, action will be taken to terminate 
the training or to take any other appropriate action.
14. all recruited as above will be subject to all rules 
and regulations applicable to the Public Officers, and 
provisions of the Establishments code of democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, polices prescribed by 
the department of Health, Procedural Rules of the Public 
Service commission, Financial Regulations and the Nursing 
Service Minute and amendments made thereto from time to 
time and general regulations imposed by the Government 
from time to time.
15. Ministry is not bound to provide residential facilities 
at the training schools for the applicants recruited to the 
training. if so provided assessed house and room rental,  
water and electricity bills will be charged.
16. in case any problem arises in respect of any matter 
regarding recruitment to the training which is covered or not 
covered by this Gazette notification decision of the Secretary 
to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 
shall be final and in case of any inconsistency between the 
text in Sinhala, tamil and English, the text in Sinhala shall 
prevail.
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and  
 indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine,
“Suwasiripaya”,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
22nd March, 2019.
Specimen form of Application
REcRUitMENt oF B.S.c (NURSiNG) GRadUatES 
FoR tHE oRiENtatioN aNd cooRdiNatioN 
coURSE iN  NURSiNG -2018-2019 
Read the General circular carefully before perfect the 
application.
01.  (a) last name with initials.(in English capital letters) 
:––––––––––––.
 (b) Name in full (in English capital letters) :–––––––––.
 (c)  Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. N.i.c. No. :––––––––––––.
03. Postal address :––––––––––––.
04. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
05. telephone No. :––––––––––––.
06. (a)  district of residence :––––––––––––.
 (b)  Whether you are a permanent resident in this            
district ? :––––––––––––.
07. (a) date of Birth :
   y ear :–––––––.  Month :–––––––.   date :–––––––. 
 (b) age as at 30.04.2019 :
   y ears :–––––––.  Months :–––––––.  days :––––––.
08. Gender : Female  Male
       (Mark x in the relevant cage)
09. Whether you are a citizen of Sri lanka :
      y es  No
       (Mark x in the relevant cage)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1132
10. civil Status : Single  Married
       (Mark x in the relevant cage)
11. Height : Feet :––––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––––.
12. Education Qualification :
Degree 
Ob-
tained
effective 
date of 
the 
degree
G PA University Academic
year
13. Have you ever been convicted before a court of law ?
   y es     No
      (Mark x in the relevant cage)
 if so give particulars :––––––––––––.
14. Certificate of the applicants :
i solemnly declare that l read carefully and understood 
the Gazette Notification and perfected it subject to all 
conditions therein, that i do not attend any full time course 
and that the particulars furnished by me in the application 
are true and correct to my knowledge.
i am also aware that if this declaration or any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect i am 
liable to be disqualified for the training and if so found after 
appointment i am liable to be dismissed.
1 am also aware that this is an external recruitment and if 
i complete /not complete the training successfully i cannot 
be reverted to the current post in any manner.
Affix here the bank receipt obtained by
paying Rs. 300
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
15. attestation of the signature of the applicant :
i hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss ............................. 
who submit this application is personally known to me and 
he/she placed his /her and signature on .................... in my 
presence.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature and official frank of Attestor.
date :––––––––––––.
Full name of attestor :––––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
16. Certification of the Head of Department if the candidate 
is serving in the Public service /Provincial public 
Service (delete irrelevant words) :
i hereby certify that the above candidate Mr/Mrs/Miss 
.........................  holds the post of ............................. in this 
department.
i certify that the particulars furnished in the application 
are true and he / she can /can not be released if he /she is 
selected for the post.
i also inform that he / she was explained that this is 
an external recruitment, he / she cannot be reverted to 
the current post in any manner after he / she successfully 
completes or not complete the training concerned.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature and official frank of
  the Head of department.
date :––––––––––––.
Name of the Head of department :––––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
04–210
––––––––––––––––––
fIRST  EffICIENCy  bAR  ExAmINATION 
fOR  GRADE  III  DOCumENTATION 
ASSISTANTS  AND  EDITORS  IN  ThE  
LEGAL  DRAfTSmAN’S  DEPARTmENT - 2019
01. it is hereby   notified that the  First Efficiency  
Bar Examination for Editors and documentation 
assistants  will be held by the department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka in  July 2019   in accordance 
with the provisions of the relevant approved 
scheme of recruitment for Editors and documentation 
assistants of the legal draftsman’s department.
02. (i) this examination will be held by the 
commissioner General of Examinations of the 
department of Examinations, Sri lanka, and the 
candidates are subject to rules stipulated by him 
with regard to the holding of the examination 
and the release of results. the decision of the 
commissioner General of Examinations with 
regard to the holding of the examination and the 
release of results shall be final.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1133
 (ii) the rules stipulated for candidates have been 
printed separately in the Gazette notification. If 
these rules are violated by any candidate, he/she 
shall be liable to a punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
03. examination fees.– the candidates can sit for the 
subjects prescribed for the examination in one occasion 
or separately. No fees will be charged from candidates 
sitting for the examination for the first time, either for the 
entire examination or for any single subject only. Where 
the candidate sits for this examination on any subsequent 
occasion, an examination fee of Rs.250/- will be charged for 
a single subject and Rs.500/- will be charged for the entire 
examination. the examination fees may be paid to any post 
office or sub post office in the island or to any district / 
divisional secretariat to the credit of Revenue Head 20-03-
02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations and 
the receipt issued shall be affixed at the appropriate place in 
the application form. (it may be useful to have a photocopy 
of the receipt with the candidate) the fees paid will neither 
be refunded nor be transferred for any other examination 
under any circumstances.
04. Applications.– the application shall be prepared in 
accordance with the specimen application form annexed 
hereto. the application shall be prepared using both sides 
of an a 4 size paper and the headings 01 to 05 shall be on 
the first page and the balance portion shall be taken to be 
the second page. in the applications prepared in the Sinhala 
language, the name of the examination should appear in the 
caption of the application in English in addition to Sinhala. 
likewise, in the applications prepared in the tamil language, 
the name of the examination should appear in the caption 
of the application in English too. the application form may 
be typed but it should be filled correctly and legibly in the 
handwriting of the applicant. the application prepared by the 
applicant shall'be sent through the Head of the department, 
by registered post to the "commissioner General of 
Examinations, organizations (Establishment and Foreign 
Examinations) Branch, department of Examinations, P.0 
Box 1503, colombo", to be reached before 03.05.2019. 
When the application is sent, the name of the examination 
should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope. incomplete applications and applications received 
after the closing date will not be accepted. the applicant 
shall ensure that the completed application is in conformity 
with the specimen application form and the applications 
which are not in conformity with the specimen application 
form will be rejected. (it will be useful for the applicant to 
keep a Photocopy of the completed application with him / 
her.)
05. Identity of the applicant. – Every applicant shall 
prove his identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the 
examination hall in respect of every subject he/she appears 
at such examination hall. For such purpose any one of the 
following documents will be accepted:-
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner-
General, department of Registration of Persons; or
 (ii) a valid passport.
 (iii)  With regard to the candidature of the applicants 
who are unable to submit one of the aforesaid 
documents, the decision of the commissioner-
General of Examinations will be final.
06. the commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards together with copies of the time table 
to the applicants who have referred their applications to 
him as aforementioned, on the presumption that only those 
who have qualifications specified in the Gazette notification 
have made applications. Soon after the admission cards are 
issued to the applicants, the department of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka will publish a notification in the newspapers and 
it's website to that effect. if there are applicants who did not 
receive admission cards after 2 or 3 days of the publication 
of the said notification, such candidates shall inform 
the department of Examinations through the telephone 
numbers given in the notification. When doing so the 
applicant shall mention his/her full name, address, National 
identity card number and the name of the examination and 
when making such inquiry the applicant shall be ready 
with a copy of the application which the applicant retained 
with him, the copy of the receipt received when making 
the payment of fees and a copy of the registered article 
receipt. if the applicant is from outside colombo, it will be 
useful to make inquiries through a request letter referred 
to the department of Examinations via fax, stating the 
candidates fax number and other information given above, 
enabling him to receive a copy of the admission card through 
fax.
07. the signature of the applicant in the application and 
in the admission card for the examination should be attested 
by the Head of the Department or any officer authorized by 
him. an applicant should sit for the examination in the hall 
prescribed for him/her under the index number given to him/
her on the date of the examination. the admission card in 
which his/her signature is attested should be handed over to 
the supervisor of the examination. an applicant who fails to 
submit the admission card will not be allowed to sit for the 
examination.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1134
08. the post held by the applicant and place of work at 
the time of making the application is relevant to all matters 
relating to the examination and any changes in respect 
thereof after sending the application will not be taken into 
consideration.
09. the Head of the department must approve duty 
leave for applicants who have received admission cards 
issued by the commissioner-General of Examinations  
enabling them to sit for the examination. No travelling 
expenses will be paid.
10. this examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English media only. if the applicant has joined public service 
through competitive examination he/she should sit for the 
examination in the medium in which he/she sat for the said 
competitive examination and any applicant who has joined 
public service without sitting for a competitive examination 
shall sit for this examination in the medium in which he/she 
sat for the examination through which he/she got qualified to 
enter the public service. the applicant shall sit for all 
subjects of the examination in one medium. an applicant 
will not be permitted to change the medium mentioned in 
his application later.
11. this examination will be held only in colombo.
12. examination Procedure.– the Examination relevant 
to the above posts is comprised of the following subjects.
Question paper Time Total
Marks Pass marks
(1) Establishment and 
Procedure code 01 hour 100 40
(2) Basic knowledge 
in Financial 
Regulations
01 hour 100 40
Syllabus :
Name of examination Syllabus
01. Establishment and 
Procedure code
1 chapters vii, viii, xii, xiv, 
xxiv of volume l of the 
Establishment code.
2. Procedural rules of the Public 
Service commission.
02. Basic knowledge 
in financial 
Regulations.
chapters iv, v, vi, ix of Financial 
Regulations.
Note. * an applicant can sit for the above subjects 
separately.
 *  the failure to pass the above examination 
within the prescribed period will result in 
deferment of the increment.
13. the issue of an admission card to an applicant shall 
not be considered as he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
be eligible to sit for the examination.
14. the decision of the legal draftsman in respect of any 
matter not specified in this Gazette notification shall be final.
15. if there is any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil 
and English versions of this notification, Sinhala notification 
shall prevail.
legal draftsman,
legal draftsman’s department, 
colombo 12.
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN FoRM
First eFFiciency Bar examination For grade iii 
documentation assistants and editors oF the LegaL 
draFtsman's department -2019
.
For office use only
the medium in which the candidate intends to
sits for the examination: 
 Sinhala  - 2 
 t amil  - 3
 English  - 4 
(Write the relevant number in the cage;
01.  1.1 Name in full (in English capital letters) :–––––––.
   example : (HERatH MUdiyaNSElaGE 
     SaMaN KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
  1.2 Name giving the last name first and the first letters 
   of the other names thereafter (in English capitals 
   letters) :–––––––––––.
   (Example : GUNaWaRdaNa H. M. S. K.)
  1.3 Name in Full :–––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/t amil)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1135
02.  2.1 Name and address of Office/Department /
   institution :–––––––––––.
   (in English capital letters)
   (Admission Card will be posted to this address)
  2.2 Name and address of Office/Department/Institution 
   :–––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
  2.3 Private address :–––––––––––.
   (in Sinhal a/tamil)
  2.4  telephone No. : 
   Mobile :
   Fixed  :
03. National identity card No. :
04. Male/Female :   4.1  Male      - 0           
       Female   - 1
      (insert the relevant number in the cage)
05. Subject/Subjects which you sit for the examination this 
year :
Subject Subject No.
06. date of Birth : 
 y ear : Month :  date :
07. Present Post :
 7.1 Post :–––––––––––.
 7.2 Number of the appointment letter :–––––––––––. 
 
08. 8.1 Do you sit for this examination for the first time?  
   :–––––––––––.
 8.2 If this is not the first time that you sit for this  
examination, the amount of examination fees paid 
:–––––––––––. 
 8.3 The office to which the examination fees were 
paid :–––––––––––.
 8.4 Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
 8.5 date :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here (only if relevant). (It may be 
useful to have a photocopy of the receipt with you)
i state that the details given above are correct and that i 
am entitled to sit this examination in the medium indicated 
by me in this application and i have paid the examination fee 
of Rs. ................... and the receipt is annexed hereto. Further 
i state that i agree to the rules imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations regarding the holding of the 
examination, and issuing of the results.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
the applicant should place his signature before the Head 
of the Department or any officer authorized to sign on behalf 
of the Head of the department.
Attestation of the Signature :
i do hereby state that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. is 
an officer of my Department who is known to me personally 
and he/she placed his/her signature before me and has 
affixed the receipt obtained on payment of the prescribed 
examination fee.
  –––––––––––,
  Signature of attesting officer.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(Confirm by placing official seal)
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i certify that -
1. i perused the details given in this application; and
2. that the officer concerned is eligible to sit for this 
examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of the department and 
 Official Seal.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
04–230

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1136
mINISTRy Of mAhAWELI DEvELOPmENT 
AND ENvIRONmENT
Department of forest Conservation
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN FoR 
REcRUitMENt to tHE PoSt oF
FoRESt FiEld aSSiStaNt oF tHE dEPaRtMENt 
oF FoRESt coNSERVatioN - 2019
aPPlicatioNS are invited from qualified citizens of 
Sri lanka at 05.05.2019 for the recruitment to vacant 140 
Posts of Forest Field assistant in the Forest department. 
(Examination will be held in July 2019).
01. Salary Scale :
 (i) Pl-2 - 2016 according to Public administration 
circular No. 3/2016 - Rs.25,250 -10x270, 
10x300,10x330, 12x350- Rs. 38,450.
02. General terms of Engagement and Service 
conditions:
 (i) this post is permanent & pensionable. Should 
make contributions to the Widow / Widower and 
orphan’s Pension Scheme.
 (ii) the appointment will be subjected to a probation 
period of three years.
 (iii) Planning and implementation of a suitable 
programme for the protection of all the forests 
that belong to Forest Field assistant division 
with the help of the Beat Forest Officer under 
the supervision of Range Forest Officer, be alert 
on the forest crimes, arresting offenders and 
assisting relevant legal activities are the duties of 
the Forest Field assistants.
 (iv) the selected applicants will have to assist Senior 
Officers in arduous and risky duties such as 
protection of forests, investigation of forest 
crimes, arresting criminals and forest products 
and producing them to the courts. often these 
officers will have to engage in these activities 
personally even on public holidays and at night. 
Because of the above mentioned arduous and 
risky duties of the Forest Field assistants, it will 
be practically difficult to women to engage in 
those activities.
 (v) General condition of service pertaining to the 
appointments in Public service mentioned in 
the paragraph (2) of the Gazette Notification are 
applicable.
 (vi) the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English media. No candidate will be allowed 
to change the medium of language indicated in 
the application.  
03. Age Limit.– not be less than 18 years and not more 
than 45 years of age on the closing date of application. 
(accordingly, only the persons whose date of birth falls 
on 05.05.2001 or before that date and after 05.05.1974 are 
eligible to apply.)
04. Educational and other Qualifications.– all applicants 
should have completed below mentioned qualifications 
satisfactorily:
 (i) Should pass the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary level) Examination in six 
(06) subjects with at least two credit passes in 
not more than two sittings. 
 (ii) the applicants shall possess at least level -2 of 
National V ocational Qualification as relevant 
to the post and as decided by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission. 
 (iii) the height of the male applicant should not be 
less than 05 feet 02 inches and the chest should 
not be less than 32 inches.
 (iv) Minimum height of the female applicant should 
be of 05 feet. 
 (v) the applicant should possess physical and 
mental fitness to serve in any part of the island. 
 (vi) applicant should be a citizen of Sri lanka and 
should possess a sound character. 
05. Method of Recruitment :
 i. Minimum marks that has to be scored for each 
subject at the written exam by the applicants 
qualified under above paragraph 02 is 40%. 
twice the number of applicants as the number 
to be recruited will summon for the structured 
interview based on the descending order of those 
marks. Recruitment will be made to available 
140 vacancies based on the descending order 
of the total marks obtained from the written 
test and at the structured interview to available 
number of vacancies by the date of recruitment. 
Results will be notified to each and every 
applicant by the commissioner General of 
Examination personally by post or through the 
web site www.results.exams.gov.lk . 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1137
 (ii) When there are several applicants that have scored same marks for the last vacancy, only the applicants who 
have scored marks higher than that marks will be recruited as per paragraph 5.1.
 (iii) The applicants  selected based on the qualifications mentioned under above 5.1, should sit and pass the 
Dendrology Test (Preliminary Level) within a period of three (03) years and will be confirmed in the post at the 
end of a satisfactory service of three (3) years.  
06. Syllabus.– the written competitive examination consists of two question papers:
 i. the applicants should sit for both of these question papers in one medium of language. they should score at least 
40% of the marks for each paper in-order to pass the written test. 
       Subject No. :
01 intelligence test duration –01 hour, Marks- 100
this question paper consists of 50 multiple choice and short answer questions in-order to assess 
the logical ability, analytical competence and decision making ability of the applicant. (all the 
questions should be answered ) 
02 technical test duration   - 2 hours, Marks - 100 
Knowledge on Forest Resources and its effects on organisms, Ecology of Sri lanka, 
Geographical importance, agricultural Economy of Sri lanka, importance facts regarding 
Ministry of Mahaweli development and Environment, Forest department and its mission 
and objectives, Knowledge on Natural Environment, Forests and vegetation, importance on 
the close relationship between forests and people, basic knowledge on geography (shape and 
geographical features of the earth) and general knowledge of the applicants will be assessed. 
(all the questions should be answered)  
(ii) Marks will be allocated for the interview as follows.
Areas to be tested at the interview Maximum number of marks Minimum marks required for selection
1. Additional educational qualifications 20
Not relevant
2. Additional professional qualifications 30
3. Experience 20
4. competency in computer 10
5. Language proficiency 15
6. Skills at the interview 5
 total 100
07. Applications and other Information :
 (i) the applications should be in conformity with the specimen application appended at the end of this notice. it 
should be prepared on papers sized 21 x 29 cm. (a4 size) using both sides by the applicants and nos 01-7 ii in 
the specimen application should be included in page 01 and the rest in page 
  02. the application should be completed by the applicant in own handwriting and in the medium of language 
in which the candidate is eligible to sit for the examination. the applications should be sent under the 
registered cover to the commissioner General of Examination, organizational & Foreign Examination Branch, 
department of Examination, P.o. Box 1503, colombo, to reach on or before 05.05.2019. “Recruitment to 
the post of Forest Field assistants (open) – 2019” should be clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1138
the envelope (applications should not be sent 
to any personal name or to any other address). 
Retaining a photocopy of the completed 
application will be useful. 
 (ii) incomplete and delayed applications will be 
rejected without prior notice.
 (iii) No complaints regarding lost of applications in 
the post will be entertained.
 (iv) the signature of the applicant should be 
attested in the application as well as in the 
admission. an applicant applying through the 
institution should get his signature attested 
by the Head of the institution or any officer 
authorized by him. other applicants should 
get their signatures attested by a Principal of 
a Government School/ Retired Officer, Grama 
Niladhari of the division, Justice of Peace, 
Sworn commissioner, lawyer, Public Notary, 
Commissioned Officer in the Army, Navy, 
Air force or an Officer holding a staff grade 
permanent post in Public Service or Provincial 
Public Service, the chief incumbent of a 
Buddhist temple, a clergy in charge of other 
religious place or a recognized clergy. 
 (v) the applications which are not in conformity 
with this notice will be rejected. 
 (vi) applicants who are already in government 
service should forward their applications 
through their head of the institution/ 
department.
 (vii) Receipt of the application will not be 
acknowledged.
08. examination Fees :
 (i) Examination Fee is Rs.600. the receipt obtained 
on payment of this fee before 05.05.2019 to any  
Post office or sub post office under the revenue 
Head No 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations should be pasted in the 
relevant place given in the application (Retaining 
a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant will 
be useful).
 (ii) the Fee is not refundable and not transferable to 
any other examination.
09. the applicant must produce any one or all the 
documents given below  when required :
 (i) Birth Certificate;
 (ii) Educational Certificates;
 (iii) A certificate obtained from Grama Niladari 
recently (With the countersign of the divisional 
secretary)
 (iv) Two character certificates;
 (v) Other relevant certificates;
Note.– Documents /certificates or photocopies of 
them should not be sent along with the application.
10.  the examination centers and admission cards:
 (i) the examination will be held at the 
examinations centers in towns mentioned in 
schedule 1 of this notice. the town where the 
candidate wishes to sit for the examinations 
and its number should be mentioned as first and 
second choice at the Head of the application.
  When there are no sufficient applicants to 
hold the examination in a particular town, 
those applicant s will be directed to the town 
mentioned as their second choice or to another 
closer town. Further, when there are no 
sufficient appli cants to hold the examination 
in all proposed towns or majority, the 
commissioner General of Examination will 
take necessary actions to hold the examination 
in colombo.
 (ii) admission cards will be issued by the 
commissioner General of Examination to 
the candidates who are within the age limit 
mentioned in the notice and  have sent duly 
perfected application forms on or before 
the closing date 05.05.2019 along with the 
receipt obtained after paying examination fee. 
a notice in this regard will be published in 
newspaper by the department of Examination, 
as soon as the admission cards were issued. if 
the candidate has not received the admission 
card even after 02 or 03 days of the publication 
of the notice, he / she should inquire from 
the organizationa l and Foreign Examination 
Branch of the department of Examination. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1139
during these inquiries the applicant should 
mention the name of the examination applied, 
full name, National identity card number and 
address accurately. it may be more effective 
to submit a fax number if any, along with 
the other information to obtain a copy of the 
admission card if you are outside colombo. it 
will be benefitted if you can produce a copy of 
the application, a copy of the receipt obtained 
after paying examination fee and the receipt 
obtained after sending the application by 
registered post during inquiries.
 (iii) the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he or she 
has the requisite qualifications to sit for the 
examination and the admission card in which 
his /  her signature has been duly attested should 
be submitted to the head of the Examination 
centre on the very first day.
 (iv) the candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examination regarding the conduct 
of the examination and issue of results. those 
who violate such rules and regulations will be 
subjected to any punishment determined by the 
commissioner General of Examination.
11. Identity of the candidate. – a candidate must prove 
identity to the satisfaction of the invigilator and only one of 
the following documents will be accepted:
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of persons.
 (ii) a valid passport.
 (iii) a valid driving license.
12. Punishment for Furnishing False Information: 
if a candidate is found to be ineligible, prior to or after 
the selection, his candidature or selection is liable to be 
cancelled at any stage. if any of the particulars furnished 
by a candidate who is in public service, is found to be false 
with his knowledge or if he has willfully suppressed any 
important fact, he will be liable to dismissal from Public 
Service. 
13. actions will be taken as per the decisions of the 
conservator General of Forests with regards to the matters 
that have not been mentioned in this notice.
14.  if there is any inconsistency among Sinhala, tamil 
and English texts of this notice then Sinhala text shall be 
accepted.
  
  conservator General of Forests.
Forest department,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
26th March, 2019.
    
modeL appLication
open competitive examination For recruitment to the post 
oF Forest FieLd assistant For the department oF 
Forest conserv ation– 2019
town in which it is expected to sit for the examination.
Town No. of the Town
1st choice
2st choice
(complete as per Schedule -1)
01.  Medium of Examination   
 Sinhala    - 2
 t amil - 3
 English - 4
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
  
02.  i.  Full name (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
      ii.  Full name (in Sinhala /tamil) :–––––––––––.
 
03.  i.   address to which admission card to be posted : 
   :–––––––––––. 
   (in block capitals)
    ii. Permanent address (in Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––.
04.  Gender :     Male     - 0 
    Female   - 1 
     (Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. National identity card No. :
06. Mobile Phone No. :
 
07.  i.  date of Birth :
      y ear :  Month : date :

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1140
     ii. age at 05.05.2019 :
   y ears :   Months : days :
08. citizenship :   By descent     -   1   (Write the relevant number in the cage)
     By Registration -   2
09. Physical fitness : 
  (i) Height :–––––––––––.
  (ii) chest :–––––––––––.  inches (this is not relevant to the female applicants)
10. Educational Qualifications:
    (i)  General Certificate of  Education  (Ordinary Level) :
   1
st attempt 2nd attempt
   y ear :–––––––––.  index No, :–––––––––. y ear :–––––––––.  index No, :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
  (ii) Other Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
11. Professional / Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
12.  (i)  The Post Office / sub post office to which the examination fee was paid :–––––––––––.
       (ii) Number of the cash receipt and date :–––––––––––.
Please affix the cash receipt here
13.   (i)  Have  you ever been convicted for any offence by a court of law? yes / No. :–––––––––––.
       (ii)  if yes ,give details  :–––––––––––.
14. if you are already employed, give particulars
         (i)  institute :–––––––––––.                        (iii)  designation :–––––––––––.
       (ii)  Date of first  appointment :–––––––––––.       (iv)  Salary :–––––––––––.
15.  Names and address of two non-related referees :
   (a) ––––––––––––––––  
   (b) –––––––––––––––––
16. Declaration of the applicant :
     i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct.  i am aware that if any 
particulars given in the application are  found to be incorrect prior to my selection, I am liable to be disqualified and if it 
is found after the selection, i am liable to be dismissed without any compensation. Further i hereby declare that i will be 
subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examination for conducting Examinations 
and issue of results.
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
        (Should place the signature before the attestor)
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1141
17. attestment of the applicant’s signature:
    i do hereby certify that applicant Mr. /Mrs./ Miss..............
................ is known to me personally and he / she placed his 
/ her  signature before me on ......................... 2019.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attestor.
Name of the attestor :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(Place the rubber stamp)
18.  if the applicant is in Public / Provincial Public Service, 
the relevant Head of   the institution should complete 
the following.
i hereby certify that the applicant Mr./ Ms .......................... 
is serving  in this Ministry / Department/Office as a 
.......................... holding a permanent/ temporary post and 
the particulars furnished by him / her are true and correct. He 
/ She can be released / cannot be released from the present 
post if he / she is selected for the above post.
    ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department                        
 or an Officer Authorized by him.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
(Place the rubber stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
(No document or a copy of it should be annexed other 
than the receipt obtained after paying examination fee)
SCHEDulE  - 1
town and the number of the town in which Examination 
centers are to be established.
 Town   Number of the Town
 colombo 01 
 Gampaha 02 
 Kalutara 03
 Kandy 04
 Matale 05
 NuwaraEliya 06
 Galle  07
 Matara 08
 Hambantota  09
 Jaffna 10
 Mannar 11
 Vavuniya 12
 Mulative 13
 Kilinochchi 14 
 Batticaloa 15
 ampara 16
 t rincomalee 17
 Kurunegala 18 
 Puttalam 19
 anuradhapura 20
 Polonnaruwa 21
 Badulla 22
 Monaragala 23
 Ratnapura 24
 Kegalle 25
04–278
–––––––––––––––––
 Town   Number of the Town
DEPARTmENT Of mETEOROLOGy 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of meteorological Observer/
Communicator (Training  Grade) of Sri Lanka 
Technological Service  - 2019
1.0 aPPlicatioNS are invited from  qualified citizens 
of Sri lanka for the open competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Post of Meteorological observer/ 
communicator (training Grade) of Sri lanka technological 
Service in the Department of Meteorology, to fill 30 
vacancies in the post. Which will be held on July, 2019 and 
closing date is 06.05.2019.
2.0 Candidates who have fulfilled qualifications based 
on skill tested under results of a written examination to be 
conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations 
are recruited as Meteorological observers/ communicators 
of Sri lanka technological Service for a 02 year period 
of training. The officers who pass the aptitude test to be 
faced at completion of such training are appointed as 
Meteorological observers/ communicators, Grade iii of 
Sri lanka technological Service. this post is permanent 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1142
and pensionable and is subject to a three year probationary 
period.
3.0 General Terms and Conditions of Service :
 3.1 the appointing authority will decide the number 
of appointments and the effective date of such 
appointments. the appointing authority is 
authorized to refrain from filling any number of 
vacancies or all vacancies.
 3.2 a candidate selected subject to general conditions 
governing appointments in Public Service, 
amendments made or to be made hereafter to 
the Service Minute of Sri lanka technological 
Service as published in the Gazette Extraordinary 
No. 1930/12 of 01.09.2015 of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, provisions in 
the Establishments code and code of Financial 
Regulations and Procedural Rules of the Public 
Service commission as published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No: 1589/30 of 20.02.2009 will be 
recruited to training Grade of the Service for a 
period of 02 years.
 3.3 Selected candidates should serve in any area in the 
island.
 3.4 Hours of duty will not often be general office 
hours and may fall both day and night as well as on 
Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays. duties 
may also have to be performed on functional 
schedules.
 3.5 an agreement should be signed with the 
department that the two year training will be fully 
completed and following such two year training, 
05 years will be served in the department and a 
bond should also be written and signed prior to 
commencement of the training with certification 
of two sureties accepted by the department to the 
effect that, in case he/she vacates training after the 
date of commencement of the training, or fails to 
serve in the department the agreed period of time, 
the amount spent by the Government for training 
and a valid sum of Rs. 250,000/- will be paid to the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
 3.6 An officer recruited in a medium other than 
the Official Language should pass the Official 
language test during the probation period. the 
failure to pass this examination within the due 
period of time will result in deferment of the next 
salary increment.
 3.7 Second Language Proficiency of the stage pertinent 
to the post should be obtained within 05 years of 
Confirmation in the Post as specified in Public 
administration circular No: 1/2004. Failure 
to achieve that proficiency within the relevant 
period of time will result in suspension of salary 
increments till achievement of such proficiency.
 3.8 A proficiency equivalent to G.C.E. (O/L) should be 
obtained in English language as the link language 
prior to completion of 05 years in Grade iii.
4.0 Salary scale :
 4.1  Monthly allowances and adjustment allowances 
will be paid as follows as per Schedule V of 
the Public administration circular 03/2016 
of 25.02.2016 for the post of Meteorological 
observer/ communicator (t raining Grade) of Sri 
lanka technological Service during the 02 year 
training period.
taBlE i
Post Monthly allowance
From 
01.01.2019 
(Rs.)
From 
01.01.2020 
(Rs.)
From 
01.01.2021 
(Rs.)
technological
Service
year 1
21,532/- 24,336/- 27,140/-
year 2 21,770/- 24,605/- 27,440/-
taBlE ii
Post Adjustment allowance
From 
01.01.2019 
(Rs.)
From 
01.01.2020 
(Rs.)
From 
01.01.2021 
(Rs.)
technological
Service
year 1
4,306/- 1,502/- -
year 2 4,235/- 1,400/- -

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1143
as per Public administrative circular No. 03/2016 
of 25.02.2016, the monthly salary scale pertaining to 
Meteorological observer/ communicator Grades iii, ii and 
i of Sri lanka technological Service is Rs. 31,040-10 x 445-
11x660-10 x 730- 10x750 - Rs. 57,550 (MN 3 - 2016).
5.0 Qualifications.- following qualifications will apply 
for recruitment to training Grade of the Meteorological 
observer/ communicator of Sri lanka technological 
Service:
 5.1 Should be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 5.2 Should be not below 18 years and above 30 
years of age by the closing date of applications. 
(accordingly, only those who were born on 
or before 08.04.2001 and after 08.04.1989 are 
eligible to apply for this.)
 5.3 Every candidate should posses a physical and 
mental fitness sound enough to serve and perform 
duties of the post in any area in Sri lanka.
 5.4 Should have completed following educational 
qualifications:
 
 (a) Passing G.c.E. (ordinary level) 
Examination with six (06) subjects in 
one sitting with credit Passes for                 
Sinhala/tamil/English language, Science, 
Mathematics and another subject.
 (B) Passing G.c.E. (advanced level) 
Examination with 03 subjects in one sitting. 
Subject composition should be one of the 
following:
(1) Physics, Pure Mathematics and applied 
Mathematics
(2) With Physics
 (i) one out of the subjects of Pure 
Mathematics/applied/ combined 
Mathematics and
 (ii) one out of the subjects of chemistry/ 
agriculture/ information technology/ 
computer Science
Note.– it is compulsory for every applicant to 
have completed the qualifications for the post 
on or before the closing date for receiving these 
applications.
6.0 examination procedure:
 6.1 this examination will be held in exam centers 
in colombo city only. it will be conducted 
in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums. an 
applicant should select one medium and all 
question papers in the examination should be 
answered in that language only. later changes 
will not be permitted to the applied mediums. 
Examination will consist of two question 
papers.
Marks Duration
iQ 100 01 hour
Subjective technical 100 02 hours
 6.2  Question Paper Syllabus :
 i.  iQ Question Paper;
  this question paper consists of 50 questions 
in the types of multiple choice and questions 
expecting short answers to determine 
logical reasoning, analytical level and 
power of decision making of the applicant 
and all questions should be answered.
 ii.  Subjective technical Question Paper:
  consists of a questionnaire to determine 
knowledge in the subjects of Mechanical 
Science, Units and dimensions, Properties 
of Matter, Vibration and Waves, Heat and 
Electricity and all questions should be 
answered.
 6.3 applicants must score at least forty percent 
(40%) of the marks allocated for each paper to 
be qualified for appointment and recruitments 
will be made to fill the number of vacancies 
allocated for the competitive examination 
based on merit order of results. (applicants 
who fail to prove basic qualifications at the 
interview will not be recruited even if they 
have reached the specified level of skill).
 6.4 examination results.– Examination results 
will be notified to the applicants by the 
commissioner General of Examinations 
through post or the website www.results.
exams.gov.lk.
7.0 Punishments for false information.– Extra care 
must be taken to provide accurate information in filling the 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1144
application. In case any applicant is found to be disqualified 
as per rules and regulations of this examination, his/ her 
candidacy may be invalidated anytime before, during or 
after the examination.
8.0 examination fee.– Examination fee is Rs. 750. the 
fee may be paid to any Post/ Sub-post Office in the island 
or any district / divisional Secretariate to the credit of 
revenue head No. 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations and the receipt received in the name of the 
applicant must be well pasted with one of its edges at the 
allocated place in the application. Money orders or stamps 
are not accepted for examination fee and the fee so paid 
for examination will not be refunded or transferred for any 
other examination for any reason whatsoever. it may be 
beneficial to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
9.0 Applications :
 9.1 applications must be prepared in the 
medium of language in which you sit for the 
examination.
 9.2 Name of the Examination appearing in the head 
of applications submitted in Sinhala and tamil 
must also be written in English in addition to that 
language.
 9.3 application must be prepared by using both sides  
of 21 x 29 (a  4) sized  papers  in keeping with                
the  specimen  application  given  at  the  end  of  this  
  notification. Application must be prepared in 
such a way as to contain heads 01 to 04(E) 
on page 01, heads 05 to 09.3 on page 02, 
heads 10 to 15 on page 03 and heads 16 to  
17.3 on page 04.
 9.4 Application must be filled in handwriting of the 
applicant.
 9.5 It must be accurately filled since no later change of 
the medium of language to sit the examination will 
be permitted.
 9.6  i.  applications which are not in conformity 
with given specim en, examination fees 
have not been paid by the due date and 
not filled duly and are incomplete will be 
rejected without information. applicants 
must bear the loss incurred by non- 
completion of applications duly. it will 
be beneficial to keep a photocopy of the 
application in your possession. applicant 
must check whether the application filled 
conforms to the application appearing in 
the notice of examination. or else, the 
application may be rejected.
   ii. appointments will be issued only to 
the name with initials given in the 
application and, therefore, name must be 
mentioned accurately following the specimen 
given in the application. it will not be 
permitted to make any amendment to the name 
or insert/ remove any parts in it.
 9.7 issuance of an admission card by the commissioner 
General of Examinations to all applicants who 
have forwarded their applications by the closing 
date to sit the competitive Examination on the 
presumption that only those who have satisfied 
qualifications specified in the Gazette notification, 
will not be treated as an acceptance that the 
applicant has satisfied qualifications required for 
this post. in case it is revealed that any applicant has 
not fulfilled required qualifications at the occasion 
of verifying qualifications specified in the gazette 
notification by calling them for an interview, their 
candidacy will be invalidated.
 9.8 Receipt of applications will not be notified. No 
complaint on disappearance of applications at the 
post will be considered.
 
 9.9 Recruitment to Posts in technical Service - 
department of Meteorology" should be clearly 
written on top left hand corner of the envelope sent 
containing the application.
 9.10 The duly filled application should be sent by 
registered post to reach the following address on 
or before 06.05.2019.
  commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization & Foreign Examination Branch, 
department of Examinations of Sri lanka, P.o. 
Box 1503, colombo.
9.11 the applicants presently employed in Public 
Service or Provincial Public Service should send 
their applications through their respective Heads 
of department while those who are employed in 
Government corporations, local authorities etc., 
should send them through their respective Heads 
of institution, on or before the due date.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1145
10.0 Sitting the examination : 
 10.1 Soon after issuing admission cards to applicants, 
department of Examinations of Sri lanka will 
publish a paper notice to that effect. in case the 
admission is not received even after a passage 
of 2 or 3 days of such notice, the same must 
be informed to the department of Examinations 
of Sri Lanka following the procedure specified 
in the notice. it will be informed in that notice 
to make such enquiries from the department 
of Examinations by carrying the copy of the 
application kept in your possession, copy of 
the receipt of examination fees, receipt of 
registered post dispatch of the application and 
by providing name of the examination, full 
name of the applicant, his National identity 
card No. and address, and if you are an 
applicant from a remote area from colombo, it 
will be more beneficial to make such inquiry by 
referring a letter of request containing your fax 
No. and your details above said to the fax No. 
given in the notice in order to receive a copy of 
the admission card by fax. It will be beneficial 
to keep photocopies of completed application 
and cash receipt in your possession.
 10.2 admission issuing to applicant should not be 
considered as a qualification when he or she 
face to exam or qualify to relevant designation.
 10.3 Signature of the applicant must be certified 
in the application as well as in the admission 
card for the examination. an applicant applying 
for the examination from any institution must 
get his application certified by Head of his 
Institution or an officer authorized by him 
and other applicants must get their signature 
certified by a Principal of a government school 
/ a retired officer, Grama Niladhari of the 
division, a Justice of Peace, a commissioner 
for oath, an attorney at law, a Notary Public, 
a Commissioned Officer of the Three Forces, 
a permanent staff grade officer of the Public 
or Provincial Public Service . Viharadhipathi 
of a Buddhist temple or a Nayaka thero, any 
dignitary of clergy of any other religion in 
charge of a place of worship or holding a 
considerable position. any applicant who fails 
to forward his application in that manner is not 
permitted to sit the examination.
11.0 one of the following documents should be presented 
to the Supervisor of Examination in proof of identity of the 
applicants :
 i.  National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons,
 ii. Passport,
 iii. Valid driving license.
12.0 candidates are also subject to rules and regulations 
set out by commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the examination, any violation of which will 
make him or her subject to a punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
13.0 a decision on any matter not mentioned herein 
will be taken by the director General of Meteorology. all 
applicants are obliged to follow general rules and regulations 
of examination mentioned in this Gazette.
14.0 in the event of any incongruity or inconsistency is 
observed between Sinhala, tamil and English texts of this 
notification, at such instances Sinhala text will prevail.
 a.K. KarunanayaKe,
 director General (Acting), 
 department of Meteorology.
department of Meteorology,
Bauddhaloka Mawatha, 
colombo 07,
on 29th March, 2019.
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN 
open competitive examination For recruitment to the 
post oF meteoroLogicaL oBservers/communicators 
(training grade) oF the sri LanKa technoLogicaL service 
in the department oF meteoroLogy - (2019)
• Medium of Examination
Sinhala - 2 
tamil  - 3 
English  - 4
(Please state the relevant number in the box)
01.  (a)  Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
  (example : HERatH MUdiyaNSElaGE 
SaMaN KUMaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
 (b) last name with initials: (in block letters with last 
name first) :––––––––––––. 
  (example : GUNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K)
 (c) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil)  :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1146
02.  National identity card number :
03.  Sex :  Male  - 0 
     Female  - 1  (Please state the relevant number in the box)
04.  Permanent address:
 (a) in Sinhala :––––––––––––.
 (b) in English (in block letters) :
  (application will be posted to this address) 
 (d) district of permanent residence :––––––––––––.
 (e) divisional Secretariat division :––––––––––––.
 (f) telephone number: Fixed :––––––––––––.
     Mobile :
05. (a)  date of birth: y ear : Month : date :
 (b) age as at ............. : years : Months : days :
06. civil status : Married  - 1 
     Single  - 2  (Please state the relevant number in the box)
07.  Ethnicity : 
  Sinhala - 1, tamil -2, other-3 (Please state the relevant number in the box)
08.  Education qualifications :
  (a)   G. c. E.  (ordinary level) Examination :
   First attempt Second attempt
   y ear :–––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––. y ear :–––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––.
Serial 
No.
Subject Pass Serial 
No.
Subject Pass
 (b)  G.c.E. (advanced level) Examination :
  y ear :–––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––.
Serial 
No.
Subject Pass

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1147
09. Professional qualifications/Technical qualifications :
 9.1 degree/ diploma :––––––––––––.
 9.2 institution which awarded the degree/ diploma 
:––––––––––––.
 9.3 Effective date of the Degree/ Diploma certificate 
:––––––––––––.
10.  Other qualifications :––––––––––––.
 Have you ever been found guilty of an offense at a 
court of law or is there any on-going judicial procedure 
against you? yes/ No
 11.1 if yes, please state details :––––––––––––.
12. if the applicant is already employed in public service 
or provincial public service, the designation and the 
name and address of the department in which he/ she is 
currently employed :––––––––––––.
 Name and address :––––––––––––.
13. if the applicant has resigned from public/ provincial 
public service, reason for such resignation :–––––––––.
14.  Payment of examination fees:
 14.1 Name of the post office/ sub post office to which 
examination fee was paid :––––––––––––.
 14.2 Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
 14.3 date of payment :––––––––––––.
Please paste the payment receipt here.
Please keep a photocopy of the receipt with you.
15.  attestation of the applicant:
 (a) i declare that information furnished by me in this 
application is true and accurate.
 (b) i understand that in the event the statement made by 
me is proven false, i shall become ineligible to be 
recruited to this position and that my employment 
shall be terminated if it is proven so after recruitment.
 (c) Receipt for the payment of Rs. ....................... as 
examination fee has been attached as specified.
 (d) i declare that i am bound by the rules and regulations 
that may be imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations regarding the holding of the 
examination and the issuing of results.
 (e) i will not change any information mentioned here 
by me.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
16.  Certification of the signature of the applicant :
i certify that ..................................... the applicant is 
personally known to me and that his/her signature was placed 
under para.15 of the above document on ......................... 
before me. i further certify that the examination fee has been 
paid and the relevant receipt has been attached.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the certifier.
date :––––––––––––.
Name of the certifier :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(Must be affirmed with the official stamp)
17. Recommendation of the Head of department: 
(applicable only to applicants employed in the public/ 
provincial public service)
 17.1  i certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss ............................... 
whose details are mentioned above, is employed 
at ........................ in the capacity of ....................... 
with effect from ...............................
 17.2 As per the personal file of the aforesaid officer, 
   his/ her performance/ conduct and attendance is 
satisfactory/ not satisfactory, 
  he/she has earned/ not earned all salary increments, 
he/she has/ has not been subjected to disciplinary 
action. 
  (if subjected to disciplinary action, please state 
details)
  .................................................................................
 17.3 if selected for the post applied for, it is possible/ 
not possible to release the officer from the position 
currently held by him/ her.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of department.
 Official stamp.
date :––––––––––––.
04–442

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1148
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book list)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (list of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'05
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2019
1149
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2019
 APRIL 05.04.2019 Friday — 22.03.2019 Friday 12 noon
  12.04.2019 Friday –– 29.03.2019 Friday 12 noon
  18.04.2019 thursday –– 05.04.2019 Friday 12 noon
  26.04.2019 Friday –– 12.04.2019 Friday 12 noon
 mAy  03.05.2019 Friday — 18.04.2019 thursday 12 noon
  10.05.2019 Friday –– 26.04.2019 Friday 12 noon
  17.05.2019 Friday –– 03.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
  24.05.2019 Friday –– 10.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
  31.05.2019 Friday –– 17.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
 JuNE 07.06.2019 Friday — 24.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
  14.06.2019 Friday –– 31.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
  21.06.2019 Friday –– 07.06.2019 Friday 12 noon
  28.06.2019 Friday –– 14.06.2019 Friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2019.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.