

<!-- page 1 -->

COLOMBO ASSOCIATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS 
AND DRAMATIC ART (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Colombo Association of 
Language Skills and Dramatic Art
————————
Presented by Hon. Shanakiyan Rajaputhiran Rasamanickam, M.P . for
Batticaloa District on 18th of June, 2025
(Published in the Gazette on June 02, 2025)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
 ————————
printed at the department of government printing, sri lanka
to be purchased at the government publications bureau, colombo 5
Price : Rs. 58.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
[Bill No. 24]

<!-- page 2 -->

3
Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
An Act to incorporate the Colombo Association of 
Language Skills and Dramatic Art 
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the 
“Colombo Association of Language Skills and Dramatic 
Art” has heretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the 
purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transacting 
all matters connected with the said Association according to 
the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore 
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects 
and matters for which it was established and has applied to 
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to 
grant the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -
1. This Act may be cited as the Colombo Association 
of Language Skills and Dramatic Art (Incorporation)  
Act, No.         of 2025.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this 
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the 
Colombo Association of Language Skills and Dramatic Art 
and shall hereafter be admitted as members of the body 
corporate hereby constituted shall have perpetual succession 
under the name and style of the “Colombo Association of 
Language Skills and Dramatic Art” (hereinafter referred to 
as the “body corporate”), and by that name may sue and be 
sued with full power and authority to have and use a common 
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a V oluntary 
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for 
20
15
10
5
25
Preamble
Short title
Incorporation 
of the 
Colombo 
Association 
of Language 
Skills and 
DramaticArt

<!-- page 3 -->

Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
2
the purpose of the V oluntary Social Service Organizations 
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the 
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the 
management of the affairs of the body corporate.
3. (1) Subject to the provisions of any other written law, 
this Act and the rules made under section 7, the general 
objects for which the body corporate is constituted are 
hereby declared to be to-
(a) to recruit, train and maintain a panel of examiners 
qualified and experienced in communication and 
performance skills and conduct examinations in 
Speech, Drama, Verse, Prose, Public Speaking, 
Spoken and Written English, Personal and 
Professional English and grant certificates of 
competence by conducting examinations and 
awarding certificates;
(b)  (i) to prepare syllabuses in a wide variety of 
Oral Communication and Performing Arts 
to ensure that such syllabuses reflect the 
needs of candidates;
 (ii) to keep these syllabuses under constant 
review in response to changing patterns of 
training and comments from examiners, 
teachers, and candidates;
 (iii) to conduct fair examinations as stated in 
the syllabuses;
 (iv) to give reasonable notice of such 
examinations to relevant individuals and 
examination centres; and
5
10
15
20
25
General 
objects of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 4 -->

3
Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
 (v) to collect and distribute the results as early 
as possible while safeguarding essential 
checking procedures;
(c)   to select material within the syllabuses which 
will form part of students’ repertoire, enabling 
the grade examinations to be used as a guideline 
for teachers;
(d) to encourage students to take the appropriate 
grade and diploma examinations in a variety 
of subjects, thereby broadening and developing 
their skills to the highest level of their ability;
(e)  to foster and encourage a closer bond of 
friendship and understanding among teachers of 
English, Speech, Drama and allied subjects;
(f)  to conduct regular teacher training programmes, 
workshops, and seminars, to conduct specialised 
English courses for the development of personal 
and professional communication skills; and
(g) to provide the government, professional and 
educational bodies and other interested persons 
or bodies the opportunity of ascertaining the 
view of the body corporate in matters relating 
to Oral Communication and Dramatic Art, if 
required to do so.
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in 
subsection (1), the body corporate shall ensure that such 
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction 
based on race, religion, language, caste, sex, political 
opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 5 -->

Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
4
4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out 
subject to any applicable written law, in such manner so 
as not to create any conflict between the work of the body 
corporate and any work being carried out simultaneously 
by any Ministry or Department of the Government or of 
any Provincial Council or any Local Authority or Public 
Corporation.
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of any other written law, 
this Act and the rules made under section 7, the management 
and administration of the affairs of the body corporate shall 
be carried out by a Council (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Council") consisting of such number of office bearers as 
may be specified by rules made under section 7 and in such 
a manner as may be specified therein. 
(2) ( a) The Council of the Colombo Association of 
Language Skills and Dramatic Art holding office on the day 
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this 
Act shall, subject to the rules made under paragraph ( b), 
function as an Interim Council of the body corporate until 
the first Council is appointed or elected within the period 
specified in paragraph (d) and in the manner provided for by 
rules made under section 7.
(b) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3), 
(4) and (5) of section 7, the Interim Council of the body 
corporate shall have the power to make rules for the interim 
administration of the body corporate not inconsistent with 
the provisions of this Act or any other written law.
(c) Any decision of the Interim Council shall be taken by 
the majority of its members present at such meeting.
5
10
15
20
25
Body 
corporate 
to ensure 
no conflict 
with work of 
Ministry or 
Department 
of the 
Government 
or a 
Provincial 
Council or 
any Local 
Authority 
or Public 
Corporation
Management 
of affairs 
of the body 
corporate

<!-- page 6 -->

5
Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
(d) The First Council of the body corporate shall 
be appointed or elected within one year of the date of 
commencement of this Act.
(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Council including the 
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a 
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or 
advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election 
after the lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death, 
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office 
bearer, the Council shall, having regard to the rules of the 
body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b) 
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term 
of office of the member whom he succeeds.
6. Subject to the provisions of any other written law, this 
Act and the rules made under section 7, the body corporate 
shall have the power to do, perform and execute the following 
acts for the attainment of the objects of the body corporate - 
(a)  to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and 
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which 
may be required for the purposes of the body 
corporate made and to deal with or dispose of the 
same as determined by the Council with a view 
to promoting the objects of the body corporate;
 (b)  to enter into and perform or carry out, whether 
directly or through any officer or agent 
authorized in that behalf by the body corporate, 
all such contracts or agreements as may be 
necessary for the attainment of the objects or the 
exercise of the powers of the body corporate:
5
10
15
25
20
30
Powers of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 7 -->

Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
6
 (c)  to borrow or raise funds with or without securities 
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash 
or kind for the attainment of the objects of the 
body corporate:
   Provided that, the Council shall obtain the 
prior written approval of the Department of 
External Resources in respect of all foreign funds 
including grants, gifts or donations received by 
or made to the body corporate;
 (d) subject to the provisions of the proviso to 
paragraph (c), to make, draw, accept, discount, 
endorse, negotiate, buy, sell and issue bills of 
exchange, cheques, promissory notes and other 
negotiable instruments and to open, operate, 
maintain and close accounts in any bank;
 (e) to invest any funds that are not immediately 
required for the purposes of the body corporate, 
in such manner as the Council may determine;
 (f) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and 
administer any lawful trust having objects 
similar to the body corporate or any real or 
personal property with a view to promoting the 
objects of the body corporate;
 (g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the 
services of officers and servants of the body 
corporate and exercise disciplinary control 
over them and to pay them such salaries and 
allowances as may be determined by the body 
corporate in terms of rules made under section 7 
of the Act;
 (h) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences 
with a view to promoting the objectives of the 
body corporate;
5
10
15
25
20
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7
Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
 (i) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and 
foreign institutions having similar objects to that 
of the body coporate; and
 (j) to do such things as are authorized by this Act 
for the achievement of the objects of the body 
corporate.
7. (1) The body corporate shall, from time to time, at any 
general meeting of the body corporate and by a majority of 
not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting, 
make rules which are not inconsistent with the provisions of 
this Act or any other written law, for the following matters:-
 (a) the classification of membership, admission, 
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of 
members and fees payable by such members;
 (b) the election of office bearers of the Council and 
vacation of or removal from office of office 
bearers and the powers, duties and functionas of 
the office bearers;
 (c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers, 
functions and duties, dismissal or termination 
of services, the exercise of disciplinary control 
and the payment of salaries and allowances of 
officers and servants of the body corporate;
 (d) the procedure to be followed for the summoning 
and holding of meetings of the body corporate 
and of the Council and for the issuance of notices 
and agenda of such meetings, the quorum and 
the conduct of business thereat;
 (e) the qualifications and disqualifications to be 
a member of the body corporate and of the 
Council;
10
5
15
25
20
30
Rules of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 9 -->

Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
8
 (f) the administration and management of the 
property of the body corporate;
 (g) the procedure for governing the manner of 
liaising, coordinating and contracting with other 
local and foreign institutions having objects 
similar to that of the body corporate;and
 (h) generally the management of the affairs of 
the body corporate, the accomplishment of its 
objects and dissolution of the body corporate.
(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended, 
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like 
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The rules made under subsection (1) of this section 
and paragraph ( b) of subsection (2) of section 5 of this Act 
shall be published in the Gazette within one month upon the 
making of such rules and shall come into effect on the date 
of publication thereof.
(4) E very rule made by the body corporate shall within 
two months of its publication in the Gazette, be brought 
before Parliament for approval. Any rule which is not so 
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date 
of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything duly 
done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any such rule is 
deemed to be so rescinded under subsection (4) shall be 
published in the Gazette.
(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all times 
be subjected to the rules of the body corporate.
8. The Council shall maintain a register of members in 
which the name, address and other essential details of the 
members of the body corporate shall be inscribed.
5
10
15
25
20
30
Register of 
members

<!-- page 10 -->

9
Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
9.  (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the proviso to paragraph 
(c) of section 6, all moneys received by way of gifts, 
bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or 
grants for and on account of the body corporate shall, be 
deposited in one or more banks approved by the Council to 
the credit of the body corporate.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such 
sums of money as are required to defray any expenditure 
incurred by the body corporate in the exercise, performance  
and discharge of its powers, duties and functions under  
this Act.
  
10. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be 
the calendar year.
(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be 
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and 
all other transactions of the body corporate.
(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited 
annually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditor 
appointed by the Auditor General in terms of the provisions 
of Article 154 of the Constitution, and be certified by Auditor 
General or such qualified auditor.
(4) For the purposes of this section "qualified auditor" 
means -
 (a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountnats of Sri Lanka or of any 
other Institute established by law, possesses a 
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued 
by the Council of such Institute; or
5
10
15
25
20
Fund of the 
body 
corporate
Accounts and
Auditing

<!-- page 11 -->

Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
10
 (b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident 
partners of which, being a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any 
other Institute established by law, possesses a 
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued 
by the Council of such Institute.
11. (1) The Council shall prepare a report of the activities 
of the body corporate for each financial year and submit such 
report together with the audited statement of accounts, a list 
of all assets and liabilities of the body corporate certified 
by the Auditor- General or qualified auditor appointed by 
the Auditor General, referred to in section 10 and the details 
of all contracts and agreements entered into by the body 
corporate and the rules of the body corporate made under 
Section 7, to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister 
assigned the subject of Education and to the Registrar of 
Voluntary Social Service Organizations appointed under the 
Voluntary Social Service Organizations (Registration and 
Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of 
six months of the year succeeding the year to which such 
report relates.
(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the 
foreign and local moneys received by the body corporate 
during the financial year shall be attached to the report 
referred to in subsection (1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Colombo Association 
of Language Skills and Dramatic Art existing on the day 
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this 
Act, shall be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted 
and all debts due to and subscriptions and contributions 
payable to the Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art on that day shall be paid to the body corporate 
for the purposes of this Act.
5
10
15
25
30
35
20
Annual Report
Debts due by
and payable to 
the Colombo 
Association 
of Language 
Skills and 
Dramatic Art

<!-- page 12 -->

11
Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
13.  Subject to the provisions of any other written law, 
of this Act and the rules made under section 7, the body 
corporate shall be able and capable in law to take and hold 
any property, movable or immovable, which may become 
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary 
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held 
by the body corporate for the purpose of this Act and subject 
to the rules of the body corporate made under section 7, 
with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, or otherwise 
dispose of the same.
14.  Subject to the provisions of any other written law, 
of this Act and the rules made under section 7, the moneys 
and property of the body corporate however derived shall 
be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of 
the body corporate and no portion thereof shall be paid or 
transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus 
or profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of the body 
corporate.
15.  (1) Subject to the provisions of any other written 
law, the seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed to 
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two 
members of the Council who shall sign their names to the 
instrument and such signing shall be independent of the 
signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody 
of an office bearer of the Council as may be decided by the 
Council.
16.  (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate 
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and 
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not 
be distributed among the members of the body corporate, 
but shall be given or transferred to any other appropriate 
institution having objects similar to those of the body 
corporate, and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited from 
distributing any income or property among its members.
5
10
15
25
20
30
35
Body 
corporate may 
hold property 
movable and 
immovable
Application of 
moneys and 
property
Seal of the 
body 
corporate
Property
remaining on
dissolution

<!-- page 13 -->

Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
12
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriate 
institution shall be determined by the members of the body 
corporate with the approval of the Registrar of Voluntary 
Social Service Organizations appointed under the Voluntary 
Social Service Organizations (Registration and Supervision) 
Act, No. 31 of 1980 immediately before the dissolution at 
a general meeting by the majority of votes of the members 
present.
17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect 
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate. 
18. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -
“bank” means' a bank licensed under the provisions of 
the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988; and
“written law” shall have the same meaning assigned 
to such expression in the Constitution of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 19. In the event of any inconsistency  between the Sinhala 
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
5
10
15
20
Saving of the 
rights of the
Republic
Interpretation
Sinhala text to 
prevail in case 
of 
inconsistency

<!-- page 14 -->

Colombo Association of Language Skills and 
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)
14
Department of Government Printing, Sri Lanka.