

<!-- page 1 -->

1249 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
1249
¡â¤ 1, 469 _ 2006 §¤àï”åà´Ú ˜Ì 27 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.10.27
No. 1,469 – FRIDAY,  OCTOBER 27,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1252
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1255
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd November, 2006, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 20th October, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
1250
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1
proficiency Test in one of the Official languages within one year;
Grade II Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency
Test (where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads
of  their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from
Public officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the
Public  Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications
should  state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take
up the new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

1251 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B 4 – B 079357

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
1252
Posts - Vacant
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Sub-Inspector of Police, Police Constable and
Police Constable Driver (Special Task Force)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the Citizens of Sri Lanka for the
post of Sub-Inspector of Police, Police Constable and Police Constable
Driver in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
02. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
Specimen form given below, should be sent to Director (Recruitment),
Recruiting Office  2nd Floor, New Secretariat Building, Colombo 01.
The applications should be sent by registered post to the above
mentioned address to reach on or before 27.11.2006 and the top left
hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications should be marked
Post of Sub-Inspector of Police/Police Constable/Police Constable
Driver (Special Task Force). Delayed applications will be rejected
and no applications will be issued by the Sri Lanka Police Department.
03. Salary Scale :
Sub-Inspector of Police (Special Task Force)
Rs. 184,200–7 x 1,800– 2 x 2,520 – 25 x 3,480 –Rs. 288,840
Police Constable (Special Task Force)
Rs. 166,560 – 7 x 1,440 – 27 x 1,800 – Rs. 225,240
Police Constable Driver (Special Task Force)
Rs. 166,560 – 7 x 1,440 – 27 x 1,800 – Rs. 225,240
(a) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(b) Facilities to improve skills and talents in sports.
(c) Traveling expenses for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
04. Basic Qualifications.–
(a) Sub Inspector of Police (Special Task Force)
Age limits.– The age should be between 18 and 25 years as at
closing date as per the Gazette Notifications.
(b) Police Constable (Special Task Force)
Age limits.– The age should be between 18 and 25 years as at
closing date as per the Gazette Notifications.
(c) Police Constable Driver (Special Task Force)
Age limits.– The age should be between 19 and 26 years as at
closing date as per the Gazette Notifications.
Educational Qualifications :
Sub Inspector of Police (Special Task Force) : Applicant
should have passed 3 subjects at one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/
L) Examination. and passed the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination in 06 subjects at one sitting with Credit passes
in 04 subjects which Two  (2)  should be Medium Language
and Mathematics.
Police Constable (Special Task Force) :
Should have passed 6 subjects at one sitting including
Mathematics and Medium Language at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
Police Constable Driver (Special Task Force) :
Should have passed 6 subjects at one sitting including
Mathematics and Medium Language at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
Note 01.– According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the number of
subjects passed at G.C.E. (O/L) both passes in Science
subjects Numbers 41 and 44 will be treated as one subject and
both the passes in Mathematics Numbers 42 and 45 will be
treated as one subject. (They can’t be considered as four
separate subjects taking into account the number of subjects
passed.)
Note 02.– Failure in the Technical subject at Written Test of
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination will be considered as failure in the
same subject, although a pass has been obtained for the same
in the Practical Test.
Note 03.– Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and Sinhala
have not been included in the stream of G.C.E. (O/L) passes
in any of these subjects will not be computed as a pass in the
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
Physical Requirements.–
Sub Inspector of Police (Special Task Force) :
Height 5 feet 06 inches (minimum)
Chest 32 inches minimum (deflated)
Police Constable (Special Task Force) :
Height 5 feet 04 inches (minimum)
Chest 30 inches (deflated)
Police Constable Driver (Special Task Force) :
Height 5 feet 03 inches (minimum)
Chest 30 inches (deflated)
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated qualifications will
be eligible at the discretion of Inspector General of Police
provided they have skills in sports or have achieved best
performance in sports at National level or they have earned
reputation for Sri Lanka by participating in an International
competition.
Vacancy for the Police Constable Driver (Special Task Force)
Trade Qualification :
(i) Certificate of competence in driving light or heavy vehicles.
(ii) At least, one year experience in driving motor vehicles
after obtaining the above certificate.

<!-- page 5 -->

1253 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
Note.— Priority will be given in case of knowledge of motor
mechanism, experience in repairs to vehicles and long experience
in driving vehicles.
* If any applicant has deformity or any other physical disability
which impedes movement of physical limb required for
competence in driving will be disqualified. Although he has
obtained a medical certificate to the effect that  he is fit for the
service.
* The applicants who have basic qualification will be tested for
their ability for driving and maintain vehicles. Their knowledge
of road rules and traffic signals and basic knowledge of
mechanical theories of the vehicle in which the applicant has
achieved competence in driving will also be tested.
(d) Visual requirements.– Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye. If the vision is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18 with
the other eye will  be accepted. Colour vision should be normal.
Applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses will not be
eligible.
(e) Other qualifications.–
(i) Applicants should be unmarried.
(Those who are divorced should be treated as married). This
condition will not be applicable for officers who presently
serve in the Police Department and who have fulfilled the
qualifications.
(ii)Applicants should get through the test of basic qualification,
endurance test and written test conducted by the Police
Department before they attend the final selection board.
The written test consists of two papers :
(i) Question paper on construction of sentences
Duration – 45 Minutes
(ii)Question paper general knowledge and Intelligence test
Duration – 01 Hour
(iii) Successful applicants should pass a medical examination
before they are enlisted. Applicants who are accepted
as disqualified for the Police service will be rejected.
(iv) The following areas will be tested in the trade test :
(a) Competence in driving vehicle :
(b) The Highway Code
(c) Knowledge of maintenance of, and minor repairs
to vehicles.
05. Terms of Engagement :
(i) Appointees are entitled to the Public Service Provident Fund.
(ii) 8% of monthly earnings should be paid to the Contributory
Pension Fund from the date of enlistment.
(iii)All officers will be required to contribute to Police
Departmental Funds.
06. Conditions of Service :
(i) This appointment is subject to a period of probation for
three years.
(ii)The selected applicants will be required to comply with any
rules already made or may hereafter be made to give effect to
the language policy of the Government.
(ii)They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code V olume I and II, Police Disciplinary
Code and any other Orders that may be issued by the
Inspector General of Police or by the Government from
time to time.
(iv)Every officer will be required to pass the prescribed
Departmental tests. Those who fail to pass the prescribed
test or are found to be unfit for police duties will be liable for
removal from the Police Service.
(v) Basic training will be 01 year at the Sri Lanka Police College
and the regional training will be 02 years.
(vi) The appointees will not be permitted to marry until they
are confirmed in their posts. However, in terms of the
notification 41 of the Police Gazette II dated 28th February,
1973, the officers who have completed a minimum period of
two years  satisfactory service could get married on the
permission granted by the Inspector II  General of Police,
under special circumstances.
(vii)Application on being appointed and after the training should
serve a probationary period of three years in the Police
Department and if they wish to resign from service before
their probation is over, they should sign an agreement of
consent to the effect that they are willing to pay at the time
of tendering their resignation, any amount which was incurred
on uniforms etc., during on by the Director of Police Training
College. The acceptance of resignation should confirm to
the Section 4 Chapter 5 in V olume I of the Establishments
Code 1985.
(viii)Probationary Sub Inspector of Police, Police Constable  and
Police Constable (Special Task Force) immediately after
they have commenced training at the Police Training College
should affirm/swear that they adhere to the Police
Disciplinary Code in terms of the I.G.P. Circular No.
1693/2003. Sub Inspector of Police who have been confirmed
in the post will have opportunities for promotions according
to the approved scheme of promotion of the Police
Department.
(ix)They should soon after commencing the training at Police
College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to the Public Service,
in terms of the I.G.P’s Circular No. 1804/2004.
(x) Sub-Inspector of Police, Police Constable, and Police
Constable Driver (Special Task Force) will have the scope
for promotions in terms of the approved scheme of
promotions of the Police Department.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
1254
7. (i) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable to
appointment  to posts in the Police  Service Published in
the Section (II A) of the Part I of this Gazette.
(ii)  Enlistment will made in terms of Public Administration
Circular No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
8. Applicants should annex copies of the following documents
to their application. (Originals must not be forwarded).
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from per-
sons who are not related) ;
(iii)Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or other
extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates of service experience (if available) ;
(vi) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card.
9. (a)  Applications from applicants who are already in the
public service/services must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective Departments and must be accompanied by a certifi-
cate stating that the officers can be released, if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11”x 8” in size and post them, together with
the copies of certificates called for to the address given in paragraph
2, and under no circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the Department.
10. Applications which do not confirm to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No Travelling or other expenses will be paid to applicants
who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector-General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
P
OLICE  DEPARTMENT
The Post of Sub-Inspector of Police, Police Constable and
Police Constable Driver (Special Task Force)
01. (a) Name in full (in block letters) : ————.
(As stated in the applicant’s Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials : ————.
(c) Sex : ————.
02.National Identity card No. : ————.
03.Father’s Name in full : ————.
04.Place of birth of the applicant : ————.
(Police station to which the place of birth belongs) : ————.
05. (a) Present address : ————.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs : ——
——.
(c) Permanent address : ————.
(d) Police station and the Electorate to which the permanent
address belongs : ————.
06. (a) Nationality : ————.
(b) Whether you are Citizen by birth or registration (if by
registration attach copies of the certificate)
If you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth of
(i) Applicant : ————.
(ii)Applicant’s Father : ————.
(iii)Applicant’s paternal Grandfather : ————.
(iv) Applicant’s paternal Great Grandfather : ————.
07.Age : (as on the closing date of application given in the  Gazette):
Years : ————, Months : ————, Days : ————.
(Copy of Birth Certificate should be attached)
08.Height (Inches) : ————, Chest (Inches) : ————.
09.Education qualifications (State Examination passed and attach
copies of Certificates) : ————.
10.Whether married or single : ————.
11. (i) Present employment : ————.
(ii)Are you a member of any armed Force : ————.
12.Have you any special claims and/or Qualifications : ————.
13.Give names and address of two non-related referees :
(i) ————.
(ii) ————.
14. (a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Police Service (If so
give reference) : ————.
(b) Have you served in the Police or in the Sri Lanka Reserve
Police before ? : ————.
(If so under what circumstances did you leave the service ?
Give details)
15. (a) Are you serving in any of the Armed Services ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective Service
Commander) : ————.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Services ? (If so,
attach copy of your discharge certificate) : ————.
16. (a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any one of the Armed
Services ? (If so, your application must be submitted through
the respective Service Commander : ————.

<!-- page 7 -->

1255 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
(b) Have you served as a V olunteer in any of the Armed Serv-
ices? (If so attach a copy/copies of your discharge certifi-
cate/certificates) : ————.
17. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so, give
details) : ————.
18. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so, give
details) : ————.
MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE,  PUBLIC  SECURITY,
LAW  AND  ORDER
National  Cadet Corps.
Competitive Examination to Recruit English Teachers to
Serve in Remote Schools coming under the Purview of
Provincial Councils and to be commissioned under the
National Cadet corps as Probationary Officers - 2006
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from those with academic
qualifications and Eligibility mentioned below to recruit as English
Teachers and Probationary Officers of the National Cadet Corps to
serve in remote schools coming under the purview of Provincial
Councils.
2. Eligibility - Candidates should :
2.1 be citizens of Sri Lanka.
2.2 have lived within following provinces for the past 5 years.
North East, Uva, North Central, Central, North West.
2.3 possess an excellent character and be of sound physical and
mental health.
2.4 be below 25 years of age on 31st December, 2006.
2.5 Height : (Male candidates) not be less than 5’5”.
(Female candidates) not be less than 5’2”
2.6 be unmarried.
2.7 be physically fit to undergo physical training component of
the course.
3. Basic Educational and other Qualifications Candidate should
have :
3.1 passed three subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination
3.2 passed six subjects in not more than two sittings at G.C.E.
(O/L) Examination including First Language and Mathematics.
It should also include three credit passes in any subjects.
3.3 a very good pass in English Language (for those who sat
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in year 2003 or thereafter) a credit
pass in English at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination (for those who
sat the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination before 2003).
3.4 Preference will be given at the interview to candidates who
have done sports or extracurricular activities such as
cadetting, scouting at the school and to members of school
bands etc.,
4. Method of Selection :
4.1 All candidates should sit for a test in English Language which
will be conducted by the Department of Examinations.
4.2 Examination will consists of two question papers to test the
English language proficiency of the candidates.
English paper I
An objective choice question  paper in English.
Time duration  is  One Hours - (40 marks)
English paper II
Structured essay type question paper.
Time duration is Two Hours  - (60 marks).
4.3 Successful candidates at the examination will require to
undergo a Medical Examination and Physical Test. Those
who fail the Medical examination or physical test will be
rejected.
4.4 Those who obtain the highest marks at the examination and
pass the medical examination and physical test will be called
for an interview. However, those who obtain less than 40%
marks at the examination will not be called for the interview.
If there are qualified candidates as per the results of the
examination , number similar to the five times of the vacancies
available in each province, will be called for the interview.
final marks will be given as below.
Written Examination - 60 marks
Interview -  40 marks
5. Recruitment :
5.1 Selected candidates will be recruited to the Sri Lanka Teachers
Service (Class III Grade II) under the Provincial Councils
19. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion or convicted of any
offence ? (If so, give details) : ————.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable for
termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith (even
if I have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished are
fond to be incorrect or false.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
10-606
Examinations, Results of Examinations & C.,

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
1256
listed above. Salary scales as per the PA Circular 06/2006
dated 25.04.2006 will be as follows;
12,920.00-10x120–5x150—14,870.00
5.2 Recruits will be given one year training the National Cadet
Corps Training Centers. Training will comprise of English
Language and Physical training components. On the
successful completion of the training course, candidates will
be posted as Teachers of English in remote schools which
come under the administration of respective Provincial
Councils. It will be compulsory for them to work in the
appointed educational zones for a minimum period of 10
years. Further, at the completion of the training, successful
candidates will be Commissioned as Probationary Officers
of the National Cadet Corps. In addition to the role of being
teachers of English, they will be required to serve as teachers-
in-charge of Cadet Platoons of respective schools.
6. Conduct of the Examination :
6.1 Rs. 250 will be charged as Examination fees. The receipt
obtained on paying the said amount to any post office under
revenue head A/C 4000-20-03-20-13 should be attached to
the application form. It may be useful to keep a photocopy
of the receipt with applicants. The applications should be
sent by registered post on or before 22nd of November,
2006 to the Commissioner General of Examination,
Department of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Pelawatta, Batteramulla as per the
specimen application form appended at the end of this
notification. The application should be prepared on an A4
Size paper and items 01—08 should be on the front page
and remaining items should be on the other side of the paper.
6.2 Written examination will be held in the Examination Centers
located in the following Districts.
Town/District No.
Matale - 04
Kandy - 05
Nuwara Eliya - 06
Vavuniya - 13
Trincomalee - 14
Batticalao - 15
Ampara - 16
Puttalam - 17
Kurunegala - 18
Jaffna - 10
Mannar - 11
Mulative - 12
Anuradhapura - 19
Pollonnaruwa - 20
Badulla - 21
Monaragala - 22
Killinochchi - 25
6.3 All candidates should have a knowledge of the rules and
regulations of the examination published in the Government
Gazette and should comply with them.
6.4 Applications that are incomplete and that do not comply
with the specimen form will be rejected without notice.
Director,
National Cadet Corps.
National Cadet Corps,
15, Dutugemenu Street,
Pamankada,
Dehiwala.
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Competitive Examination to Recruit English Teachers to
Serve in Remote Schools coming under the Purview of
Provincial Councils and to be commissioned under the
National Cadet corps as Probationary Officers - 2006
1. Name with initials, with initials at the end.———,
(In English Block Capital Letters) .———,
Eg. SILV A A. B.
Names denoted by initials (In English Block Capital Letters)
:.———,
2. Private Addresses (In English Block Capital Letters) .———,
Admission card will be sent to this address).———,
3. National Identity Card No.
4. Sex: Female—1
        Male—0 (Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
5. The Town and the Town Code where candidates wishes to sit
for the examination.———,
Town              Town No.
(State the relevant number according to para 6.2 of the
notification)
6. Ethnic Group .———,
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage) .———,
(Sinhala—1, Sri Lanka Tamil—2, Indian Tamil—3, Muslim—
4, Malay—5, Other—6)
7. Date of Birth :
Year.———, Month .———, Date .———,
Age as at 31.12.2006
Years.———, Months.———, Days.———,
District District No.
8. District in which candidates resides .———,
(State the relevant number according to para 6.2 of the
notification).
The application should be prepared on an
A4 size paper and itmes 1—8 should be on
the front page and remaining items should
be on the other side of the paper.
(For Office use only)

<!-- page 9 -->

1257 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
9. Educational Qualifications. Particulars of G.C.E. (Ordinary
Level) Examination :
Subject Grade
................................ ................
................................ ................
................................ ................
................................ ................
................................ ................
................................ ................
................................ ................
................................ ................
................................ ................
................................ ................
     Particulars of G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Subject Grade
................................ ................
................................ ................
................................ ................
................................ ................
10.Other Qualifications .———,
11.Sports and Extra Curricular Activities .———,
I hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I give below the names and addresses
of two non-related referees who are aware of me.
Name .———, Name .———,
Designation .———, Designation .———,
Working Place.———, Working Place.———,
Telephone No.———, Telephone No.———,
12.I declare that the particulars are true and correct and I am aware
that if any of the information given in this application is found to be
untrue before appointment, I shall be disqualified and that,  if such is
found to be untrue after appointment, I shall be liable for dismissal
without any compensation.
Receipt No…………………issued by the ………………..Post
Office in respect of the……………..Examination fee of Rs. 250 is
affixed at the correct place.
……………………
Signature of the Applicant.
Date.———,
Receipt to be affixed here
13.Attestation of the signature of the candidate :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………………….who is
forwarding this application is known to me personally and he/she
placed his/her signature before me on ………………......……2006.
.———,
Signature of the Attester,
(With the official Stamp).
Date .———,
Full Name of the Attester .———,
designation .———,
Address .———,
(Signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal in a
Government School or Justice of Peace or Commissioned Officer in
the Three Forces or Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police
Service or an Officer holding a permanent staff grade post in the
Pubic Service).
10-511
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO ADV ANCED TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTES FOR THE ACADEMIC YEAR —2007
APPLICATIONS are called from suitable candidates who have successfully completed the GCE (A/L) Examination in or before year 2005,
for Higher National Diploma and National Diploma Courses conducted by Sri Lanka Institute  of Advanced Technological Education
(SLIA TE).
How To Obtain Application.-All applications should be prepared according to the specimen application form given below. The
applications should include a receipt to the value of Rs.250 credited to SLIA TE account No.0025-100133397613 at Peoples Bank, Park
Street Branch or any other branch of Peoples Bank Branch in Sri Lanka and a self addressed stamped envelop. The course applied for should
be clearly stated on the top left hand corner of the envelope. The applications should be sent to the relevant institute.
A candidate who wishes to apply for more than one institute should submit separate applications for each institute attaching the
required payment. Applications which do not meet the above requirements will be rejected.
The applications received after the closing date will not be entertained.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
1258
The addresses of the advanced Technological Institutes/ATI Sections with the courses conducted by each is given in section ‘A’
and the applicant should select their courses only from list given in section ‘B’ suiting to their qualifications.
Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education,
No.18/2, Ward Place,
Colombo 07.
Closing Date of Applications :  20th November, 2006.
Mode of Lectures
Day/Full time Courses : During weekdays, daytime
Part Time Courses : Day time during week ends
: Part time courses are confined only to those employed in the relevant field of studies.
Course Fees.-No course fee is levied for Day Courses. Course fees for part time students will be One thousand Rupees
(Rs.1000) per Semester (two semesters per year). These fees are subjected to annual revision.
Interview.-Those short listed will have to either sit for a selection test and/or face an interview. The Selections of students will be
based primarily on the Z-Score or the Aggregate marks obtained at the Advanced Level Examination. The Date, time and the place of
interview along with the necessary documents to be submitted, will be notified by a letter. Where orginals are not available, certified
photocopies will be accepted subject to the original being produced at the time of registration as a student.
Hostel Facilities.-Limited number of hostel facilities are available only for suitable full time course students at the following
institutes. The selection of students to hostel will primarily be based on the distance between the institute and his/her residence.
Ampara Hardy ATI  - Girls/Boys Hostels
Naiwala and Dehiwala ATI -  Only Girls Hostels
Section “A”
Addresses, Telephone numbers and the Allocated Institute Numbers of the Advanced Technological Institutes/A T. I. Sections
Ins Name of the Institutes Addresses Telephone No.
No.
01 Advanced Technological Institute, Dehiwala. Waidya Rd., Dehiwala 011-2738349
02 Advanced Technological Institute, Galle Kaluwella, Galle 091-2223774
03 Advanced Technological Institute, Kandy No.16, Keppetipola Rd., Kandy 081-2226644
04 Advanced Technological Institute, Kurunegala No.22/1, Wilgoda Rd., Kurunegala. 037-2224911
05 Advanced Technological Institute, Badulla Greenland Drive, Badulla 055-2230218
06 Advanced Technological Institute, Jaffna No.78, Palaly Rd., Jaffna 021-2222595
07 Advanced Technological Institute, Naiwala Naiwala, Essalla, Veyangoda 033-2292544
08 Hardy Advanced Technological Institute, Ampara Ingiriyagala Rd., Ampara 063-2222056
09 Advanced Technological  Institute, Trincomalee. Selvernayagampuram, Uppuveli, Trincomalee 026-2223232
10 Advanced Technological Institute, Labuduwa. Siridamma Mw., Labuduwa, Akmeemana 091-2246180
11 Advanced Technological Institue Section, Anuradhapura Technical Collegel, Anuradapura 025-2234417
12 Advanced Technological Institute Section, Warakapola, Technical College Warakapola 035-2267651
13 Advanced Technological Institute Section, Rathnapura, Technical College, Rathnapura 045-2232390
14 Advanced Technological Institute Section, Kalutara, Technical College, Kalutara 034-2222325
15 Advanced Technological Institute Section, Beliatta, Technical College, Beliatta. 047-2243229
16 Advanced Technological Institute Section, Samanthurai Main Street, Samanthurai. 067-2261303
17 Advanced Technological Institute Section, Batticaloa Technical College, Batticaloa 065-2247877

<!-- page 11 -->

1259 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
Name of the courses and numbers of the Institutes
Name of the Courses Duration Institutes number of the
courses are conducted
1. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA) - Day/Full time 4Yrs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 12, 16, 17
1.1 Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA) - Part time 4Yrs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 6, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17
2. Higher National Diploma in Management (HNDM)
-Day/full time (English Medium) 4 Yrs. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6
3. Higher National Diploma in  Information Technology (HNDIT)
 - Day/Full time (English Medium) 2, 1/2Yrs. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10
4. Higher National Diploma in Technology - Agriculture (HNDT - Agri)
Day/Full time (English Medium) 3Yrs. 7, 8, 10
5. Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English) - Day/Full time 2Yrs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8
5.1 Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English) - Part time 2Yrs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17
6. Higher National Diploma in Business Studies (HNDBS) -
Day/Full time (English Medium) 3Yrs. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6
7. National Diploma in Business Finance (NDBF) -
Day/Full time (English Medium) 2Yrs. 1
Note :
1. Syllabuses of all the courses are subjected to revision. Some of the revised courses will be implemented in 2006 and duration of these
courses may change.
2. Medium of instruction of the Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (Day/Full time) in the first and the second year in Sinhala or
Tamil on weekdays. The third and fourth years are in English and will be conducted during the weekend.
3. The 1st and 2nd years of the Higher National Diploma in Management (Day/Full time) course will be conducted during day time of
the weekdays and 3rd and final years will be conducted during the weekend.
4. A pass in the General Paper is essential for applicant who qualifies in the GCE (A/L) new syllabus.
5. The selection criteria is based on the average marks or Z- Score at the GCE (A/L) Examination.
6. Preference will be given to candidates who have passed in subject or field relevant to the course at the qualifying examination.
7. Preference will be given to those who are under 22 years for day course.
8. Persons who are following a course of study as an internal student, at any University of Sri Lanka/Affiliated University  College,
Technical College, College of Education/Teacher training College or any other advanced Technical Institutes will not be eligible to
register as a Day/Full time student in Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education. If any student is found to be following
full time course at any said stated institutes concurrently, their registrations will be cancelled by the Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced
Technological  Education.
9. In any case after selection for the full time courses, students will not be transferrred to any other Advanced Technological Institute
or Advanced Technological Institute section to follow the courses.
Section “B”
Qualification for Admission to the Above Courses
01. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy HNDA (Day/Full time)
Should have one of the followings :-
(i) GCE (A/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) passes in four subjects of which at least two should be credit passes obtained at the one
sitting with Pure Mathematics or Accountancy as one of the subjects for which a credit pass should have been obtained;
Where a credit pass in not available for Mathematics or Accountancy a credit pass obtained for either of these subjectd at GCE
O/L will be considered as an alternative.
A Credit pass in Mathematics at the GCE(O/L) is considered as an alternative for  a credit pass in either Pure Mathematics or
Accountancy at the GCE (A/L) ;  or
(ii)GCE (A/L) Examination (New Syllabus) passes in three subjects at one sitting with Combined Mathematics or Accountancy as
one of the three subjects of which at least, two Credit passes should have been obtained.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
1260
A credit pass in Mathematics at the GCE (O/L) is considered as an alternative for a credit pass in either Combined Mathematics
or Accountancy at the GCE (A/L) ; or
(iii)Holders of National Certificate for Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical Education and Training ;
 and
(iv) An ordinary pass in English at the G. C. E. (O/L) examination.
The Selection Criteria in based on the high marks obtained at the GCE (A/L) examination old syllabus - four subjects or new syllabus -
three subjects.
1.1 Higher National Diploma in Accountancy - HNDA (Part Time)
Should have one of the followings
(i) A degree or Intermediate Examination of a recognised university
(ii)Four subjects (Old syllabus/three subjects (New syllabus) in GCE (A/L) Exmination in one sitting
(iii)Successfully completion of National Certificate in Accounting Technician, conducted by the Department of Technical Education
and Traning.
(iv) Successfully completion of National Certificate in Business Studies (Accountancy Group) conducted by the Department of
Technical Education and Training;
(v) Successfully completion of National Certificate in Accounting conducted by the Department of Technical Education and
Training.
N. B.
(a) Practical Experience - Applicant should be employed in the relevant field in a Government Institution/public authority or a
recognised firm.
(b) Those who possess the following qualification will be exempted from the 1st year and will be admitted to the 2nd year subject
to satisfying other entry requirements and availability of places.
i. National Diploma in Business Studies/Business Finance
ii. Higher National Diploma in Commerce/Management, second year.
iii. B. Sc. (Business Administration)
iv. B. Com
v. B. Sc. (Accountancy)
vi. ICASL Part I and II
vii.CIMA Part I and II
vii. AAT Stage III
1. Higher National Diploma in Management - HNDM (Day/Full time)
Applicants should have one of the followings :
(i) Pass in GCE (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) in all four subjects /GCE (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in all three subjects
in one sitting, in any stream with ordinary passes in English and Mathmematics at the GCE (O/L) Examination ;
or
(ii)  National Certificate for Accounting Technicians or National Certificate in Business Studies (Public Administration/Marketing)
conducted by the Department of Technical Education and Training with ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the GCE
(O/L) examination ;
or
2. Higher National Diploma in Information Technology - HNDIT (Day/Full time)
Applicants should have one of the followings :
(i) Should have obtained four passes at the GCE (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) at one sitting, one of which should be out of the
following subjects: Physics/Agricultural Science*, Pure Mathematics and Accountancy ;
or

<!-- page 13 -->

1261 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
(ii)  Should have obtained four passes at the GCE (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) at one sitting, one of which should be out of the
following subjects ; Physics/Agricultural Science*, Zoology, Botany, Chemistry.
 ; or
(iii)Should have obtained three passes at the GCE (A/L) Examination (New Syllabus) at one sitting, one of which should be out of
the following suhjects ; Physics/Agricultural Science*, Combined Mathematics and Accountancy.
; or
(iv)  Should have obtained 3 passes at the GCE (A/L) Exmination (New Syllabus) at one sitting, one of which should be out of the
following subjects : Physics/Agricultural Science*, Biology, Chemistry.
; and
(v) An ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the GCE (O/L) Examination.
* Agricultural Science (GCE A/L) - the new syllabus which is implemented from the year 1995.
3. Higher National Diploma in Technology - HNDT  (Agriculture) (Day/Full time)
Applicants should have one of the following :
(i) Should have obtained four passes at the GCE (A/L) Examination (old syllabus) in Bio-Science stream at  one sitting, two of
which should be out of the following subjects : Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Botany, Zoology, and Physics
; or
(ii)Should have obtained 3 passes a the GCE (A/L) Examination (new syllabus) in Bio Science stream at one sitting, two of which
should be out of the following subjects: Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Biology and Physics
; and
(iii) An Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at GCE (O/L)
4. Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English) - (full time/Part time)
Should possess one of the following qualifications :-
(i) GCE (A/L) in 3 Subjects including English
(ii)GCE (A/L) in 3 Subjects and a pass in English Literature and at least a credit pass (C) in English at GCE (O/L)
(iii)GCE (A/L) in 3 Subjects and a distinction pass (A or B) in English Language at the GCE (O/L)
(iv) English specialist Teacher Training Certificate; or College of Education Diploma for English Teachers
(v) A pass at the National Certificate in English for Commerce, Industry and further Education conducted by the Department of
Technical Education and Training with G. C. E. (A/L) Three subjects.
5. Higher National Diploma in Business Studies - HNDBS (Day/Full time)
Applicant should have one of the followings :
(i) GCE (A/L) Examination (old syllabus) in Economics, Commerce and Finance and Accountancy or GCE (A/L) Examination in
any two of the above three subjects and a pass in one of the following subjects : Political Science, Pure Mathematics, Geography,
Sinhala, Tamil, English, Logic, History, Business Statistic at the same examination.
; or
(ii)GCE (A/L) Exmaination (New syllabus) in Economics, Business Studies and Accountancy or GCE (A/L) Examination in any
two of the above three subjects and a pass in Geography, Home Economics, Political Science, Logic and Scientific Methods,
Agricultural Science, Combined Mathematics and Business Statistic at the same examination.
; or
(iii)Successfully completion of National Certificate in Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical Education
and Training
; and
(iv)  An Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at GCE (O/L).
6. National Diploma in Business and Finance - NDBF (Day/Full time)
Should have one of the followings :
(i) GCE (A/L) Exmination (old syllabus) in 04 subjects including Economics, Commerce and Finance, Accountancy in one sitting ;
; or

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
1262
(ii)GCE (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in 03 subjects including Economics, Business Studies and Accounting or any two of the
above with one of the following subjects ; Geography, Home Economics, Political Science, Logic and Scientific Methods,
Agricultural Science or Combined Mathematics in one sitting.
; or
(iii)Successfully completion of National Certificate for Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical Education
and Training              ; and
(iv) An ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the GCE (O/L) Examination.
Note :
1. Advanced Technological Institutes of Jaffna, Trincomalee, Sammanthurai and Batticaloa are conducting part time courses in the
Tamil medium
2. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy Course (Final) is accepted as an equivalent to the Degree in Commerce, (Ordinary Pass)
awarded by a recognised University, by the circular No. 46/90 of 30th October 1990 -*
3. Advanced Technological Institute, Dehiwala is conducting the Higher National Diploma in Accountancy part time course in Sinhala,
Tamil and English Medium.
4. Advanced Technological Institute, Kandy also conducts Higher National Diploma in Accountancy parttime course in Tamil
medium.
5. Indicate according to your order of preference the courses of study which you wish to considered for admission based on your
qualification.
Please note that the decision of the Director - General SLIATE will be the final decision on the admission of students to Advanced
Technological Institutes for the academic year 2007.
This notice will be published in the Government Gazette on .... 2006.
Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education,
No. 18/2, Ward Place,
Colombo 07.
Web site : www.sliate.net
Office use only : Course Number :..........
Specimen Application Form
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
Application form for admission to Higher National Diploma/National Diploma Course.
(i) Name of the Course Order of preference Medium
1. ....................................... .......................................... ...................................
2. ....................................... .......................................... ...................................
3. ....................................... .......................................... ...................................
1. Name with initials :———,
2. Name/Names denoted by Initials :———,
3. address :———,
4. Date of Birth Year :———, Month :———, Date :———,
Age (as at 01.01.2007) year  :———, month :———, Day :———,
5. National Identity Card No:———,

<!-- page 15 -->

1263 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.10.27
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2006
6. Sex : Male/Female :———,
7. Administrative District :———,
8. (i) Result of GCE (A/L) Examination (in or before 2005) :———,
Year  :———, Index No. :———,     Medium :———,
Subjects Grade
1. .................................... ........ ...............
2. .................................... ........................
3. .................................... ........................
4. .................................... ........................
If under new syllabus indicate pass or fail in the general paper  :———,
Aggregate/Average Marks or Z-Score of the above examination, issued by the Department of Examination  :———,
(ii)Result of GCE (O/L) Examination :-
Year :———, Index No. :———, Medium  :———,
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. .................................... ........ ............... 6. .................................... ........................
2. .................................... ........................ 7. .................................... ........................
3. .................................... ........................ 8. .................................... ........................
4. .................................... ........................ 9. .................................... ........................
5. .................................... ........................ 10..................................... ........................
9.    Highest Qualification in English as a subject  :———,
10.  Details of Occupation :-                      Date of Appointment :———,
(Only for Part time/Weekend Courses)
Post :———,
E. P . F. Number : :———,
Place of work and Address :———,
I hereby declare that I am not following any other full time course of study in any other state institution. I am aware that my
registration will be cancelled at any time during the period of study if it is found that I concurrently follow a full time course at any other state
institution. I hereby certify that the information furnished here is true and accurate to the best of my Knowledge.
 ———,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———,
(The Bank receipt for Rs.250 payable to SLIA TE should be annexed)
10-639
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA