

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 189
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … 188 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"318 – 2023 fmnrjdß ui 03 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'02'03
No. 2,318  –  FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY 03, 2023
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  "GAZETTE"
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th February, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th February, 2023.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
,Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.,
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
185 - B 082424 - 5,403 (02/2023)
N. B.–   Parts II and IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 2317 of  27.01.2023 was not published. 
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2023
186
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Ofﬁ cers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proﬁ ciency in one of the ofﬁ cial 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  pro ﬁ ciency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2023
187
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identi ﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any ﬁ le 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is suf ﬁ cient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should be 
accurate and sufﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2023
188
Posts - Vacant 
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages 
Tamil Medium
TRINCOMALEE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are called for the Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages for the Divisions 
set out in the Schedule hereof :
01.  Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Births, Deaths and Marriages/Additional Marriages Division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufﬁ cient 
interest and inﬂ uence amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04.  Applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a Widow/widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Tamil Language with 02 Credit passes in not more 
than Two (02) sittings in GCE (O/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the Division or else should have passed in any other similar 
Examination.
N.B.-  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar Examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
 
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the of ﬁ ce in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. Additional details such as Village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant Division of Births, Deaths 
and Marriages/Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other quali ﬁ cations required for this post, could be 
obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat 
or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari of ﬁ ces, Samurdhi Development Society Of ﬁ ces and Post 
Ofﬁ ces depicted in the Schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "Annex-01" inclusive of Village name list/Grama Niladhari Divisions could be 
collected from District Secretariat (GA Of ﬁ ce), relevant  land  and  District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the of ﬁ cial website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's 
Department.
09. Duly ﬁ lled applications should be forwarded on or before 03rd March, 2023 by registered post to the address given 
in the Schedule.
  P. S. P. A
BEYWARDHANA,  
  Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department, 
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
09th January, 2023.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2023
189
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat
Division
Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Trincomalee Muthur Post of  Births & Deaths Registrar 
in Kottiyar South Division & 
Marriages Registrar (General) in 
Kottiyar Patru Division 
(Tamil Medium)
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Trincomalee.
02 - 11
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
MINISTRY  OF  FOREIGN  AFFAIRS
Limited Competitive Examination for ﬁ lling vacancies in the Home-Based Personal Assistants' Posts in Sri Lanka 
Missions/Posts Abroad - 2021 (2023)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for the competitive examination conducted by the Commissioner-General of 
Examinations, to be held in Colombo in April 2023 on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ﬁ ll vacancies in the 
Home-Based Personal Assistants Cadre in Sri Lanka Missions abroad, from eligible ofﬁ cers.
The relevant application has been published on the website of the Deparatment of Examinations of Sri Lanka 
www.doenets.lk, under "Online Applications - Recruitment Exams" under "Our Services" and applications can only be 
submitted online. Acceptance of online applications opens on 6th February, 2023  at 9.00 a.m.  Once the application is 
submitted online, it should  be downloaded and the relevant sections of the printed copy of the same should be ﬁ lled in 
handwriting and after the candidate's signature is attested, it should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner 
General of Examinations, Institutional Examinations Organization Branch, Department of Examinations, P.O. Box 1503, 
Colombo on or before the closing date of applications along with the certiﬁ cation of the Head of Institution, if (It is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the application with you). It should be clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
as "Competitive Examination to Fill Vacancies in the Home-Based Personal Assistants of Sri Lanka Missions Abroad 2021 
(2023) " Closing date for applications will be 7th March 2023.
Note :  Printed copy of the application should compulsorily be sent by post and any complaint that the printed copy of 
application has been lost or delayed in post shall not be considered. Candidates shall bear the losses which may occur 
due to their delay in sending applications until the closing date.
2. Eligibility :-
a.  Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka and if the applicant is married, the spouse should also be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
b.  Should be permanent of ﬁ cers from the Management Service Of ﬁ cers' Service, Provincial Management Service 
Ofﬁ cers' Service and Local Government Management Service, State Corporations, State Banks and Semi 
Government Services such as other Statutory Boards, Possessing competence in English Stenography and computer 
applications.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2023
190
c.  Age should not be more than 57 years on the closing date of applications. (Accordingly, only those who were born 
after 07th March, 1966 are eligible to apply)
d. Should have completed a minimum of 05 years permanent and continuous service and have earned on the due date, 
all the annual increments, falling within the ﬁ ve years immediately preceding the closing date of application.
e. Should not have been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment, excluding a warning.
f. The number of opportunities available for the Personal Assistant Service Of ﬁ cers to serve in Sri Lanka Missions 
abroad is limited to one. Therefore, the Personal Assistants who have previously worked in Sri Lanka Missions 
abroad cannot apply for ﬁ lling the vacancies of Personal Assistants in Missions under this Gazette.
Note :
 (i).  Those who are currently serving in Sri Lanka Missions abroad are not eligible to apply.
 (ii).  Those who are serving on contract basis, casual basis or temporary basis in the Services mentioned under 
02 (b) are not eligible to apply.
 (iii).  Those who are eligible to apply and are sucessful in the recruitment process must be permanently employed 
in their respective posts at the institutions, including entire the contractual period with the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs.
3.  Method of Selection :-
 Selection will be made on the basis of a written examination conducted by the Commissioner - General of 
Examinations and a practical test and interview conducted by the Secretary of Foreign Affairs.
 3.1 Written Examination : The written examination will consist of the following papers :
Test Duration Marks Minimum Marks
English Stenography 1 hour 100 40
English and Business Communication 1 hour 100 40
Note :
 i.  English Stenography : Applicants will be required to sit for a test in English Stenography. The test will be 
conducted in Colombo in the English medium only. The speed in Stenography required for the test will be 
60 w.p.m. 100 marks will be allocated for the English Stenography test.
 ii. English and Business Communication  : The knowledge of the candidate in writing letters/memos/taking 
minutes of meetings, invitations, etc. and the grammar and comprehension will be assessed here.
 3.2 Practical Assessment :
Duration Marks Minimum Marks
Practical Assesment 80 Minutes 60 24
Note : The practical assessment will be designed to test the proﬁ ciency in English, in drafting letters/memos, 
reports, invitations, e-mail communications and the skills of using the MS Ofﬁ ce application.
 (Each question will carry 15 marks. Total marks will be 60.) (15x4)

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2023
191
 3.3 Interview :
3.3.1.  The Interview which will be conducted by a Board appointed by the Secretary of Foreign Affair 
will carry 40. The procedure for awarding marks in the interview conducted by the Ministry is 
given below in detail.
No. Marking Scheme Marks Maximum 
Marks
1 Additional Education Qualiﬁ cations
I. Degree with 1st Class
II. Degree with 2nd Class Upper Division
III. Degree with 2nd Class Lower Division
IV . Degree (Pass)
Note :
         1. The degree should be completed in the English  
              Medium.
          2. The duration of study of the degree should not be 
               less than 3 years.
05
04
03
02
05
2 Other/Professional Qualiﬁ cations directly relevant to the functions of the 
Foreign Ministry (International Relations, Law, English or other foreign 
languages, IT, Human Resources Management, Marketing & Business 
studies, CIM, CIMA, AAT, etc.)
i. Post Graduate Diploma
ii. Diploma
iii. Certiﬁ cate Level Course
(This qualiﬁ cation should be acquired of more than six from a recognized 
university, technical college or from a government recognized institution or 
government registered institution or similar qualiﬁ cations with a period of 
more than six months.)  
10
07
05
10
3 Work Experience 
0.25 Marks per year for the remaining period of service except the 5 years 
of active and satisfactory service
No. of Years 
x 0.25
10
4 Performance at the Interview
I.    Communication Skills and the English Language   
      Proﬁ ciency
II.   Knowledge in International Affairs
III.  Cutural Sensitivity
IV .  Positive Attitude
V .    Personality & Grooming
05
03
03
03
01
15
Total 40
3.4  Those who have secured 40% or more for both written papers will be called for a practical assessment and interview. 
However, if there is an insufﬁ cient number of qualiﬁ ed applicants with the said cut-off mark at the written examination, 
the Secretary of Foreign Affairs reserves the right to take the ﬁ nal decision on the level of the cut-off mark at which 
the candidates are called for the practical assessment and interview. It will be compulsory for the candidates to obtain a 
minimum of 40% marks for practical assessment (60x40% = 24). There is no minimum mark level for the interview.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2023
192
3.5 The selected applicants as per the merit order of the total marks obtained in the written examination will be called for 
the practical assessment and the interview. Eligibility of the applicants and the authenticity of the required documents 
will be checked during the interview. The practical test will be conducted by the parties appointed by the Secretary of 
Foreign Affairs. The ﬁ nal decision on posting of selected candidates to Sri Lanka Missions abroad will be taken by the 
Secretary of Foreign Affairs.
3.6 The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations will be ﬁ nal with regard to conducting the examination and 
issuing the results.
3.7 The result sheet of the Candidates who complete the quali ﬁ cations as per paragraph 3.4 above in line with the merit 
order of total aggregate marks, will be sent to the Foreign Secretary of Foreign Affairs by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations.
 Additionally, examination results will be sent by post to each applicant who appeared in the examination or the same 
will be published on the website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka : www.results.exams.gov.lk.
3.8 When a request is made to release successful candidates to be assigned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the candidates 
should assume duties in the Ministry on the due date. In the event of an ofﬁ cer failing to do so, the Secretary of Foreign 
Affairs should be informed in writing and those who fail to report the duty in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs within 
four weeks from the due date will be considered to as disquali ﬁ ed for the appointment and action will be taken at the 
discretion of the Secretary. Further, the selected candidates should inform the Secretary of Foreign Affairs in writing 
within two weeks from the date of receiving letters of appointment whether the appointment is accepted or not. In case 
of failure to do so, action will be taken to consider him/her as an applicant who does not accept the appointment.
4. Method of Application :-
4.1 Online application for the examination should only be ﬁ lled in English. Once the Department of Examinations 
receives both the soft copy of the application submitted online and the printed copy of the application sent via 
registered post, the soft copy and the printed copy will be veriﬁ ed and the candidates will be notiﬁ ed via a SMS to 
the mobile phone number used to access the system or via email whether the application was accepted/not accepted 
by the Department. Before completing the online application, candidate should download the instructions and 
strictly adhere to the instructions in ﬁ lling the application. Any alternation done after taking the printout of the 
application will not be considered as a valid modiﬁ cation. Incomplete applications are rejected without any notice. 
Applications received after the closing date will not be accepted.
4.2  Applications should be forwarded through the respective Heads of Department with the recommendation and 
endoresement from Head of Department on the eligibility of the candidate for service in Missions abroad and the 
accuracy of details given in the application. The Head of Department should also state whether the relevant ofﬁ cer, 
if can be released immediately from the present post if selected.
5. Examination Fees :-
(a) Examination fee is Rs. 600/- Payments should be made only via following methods of payment provided by the 
online system:
 i.  Any bank credit card.
 ii.  Any bank debit card with internet transaction facilities.
 iii.  Online banking method of the Bank of Ceylon
 iv.  Any branch of the Bank of Ceylon
 v.  Any post of ﬁ ce of the Postal Department.
Note :
 ( a)  Instructions on making payments through above methods are published under the technical instructions 
relevant to the examination on the website.
 ( b) Receipt of payment will be noti ﬁ ed via a SMS or email. The total of the examination fee should be paid and 
the applications with payment of lesser or higher amount shall be rejected. Department of Examinations 
shall not be responsible for any error that occurs in payment of examination fee via above methods of 
payment.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2023
193
(c)  Udner no circumstances, the examination fee will be refunded or transferred for another examination.
6. Admissions to sit for the Examination :-
6.1 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue Admission Cards to all candidates who are within the age 
limit speciﬁ ed in the notiﬁ cation and have paid prescribed examination fee and forwarded their applications together 
with the relevant payment receipts on or before the closing date of applications, on the presumption that only those 
who possess qualiﬁ cations indicated in the Gazette Notiﬁ cation have forwarded their applications. As soon as the 
admission cards are issued to the prospective candidates, a notiﬁ cation will be published in the newspapers and the 
ofﬁ cial website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka to that effect, Candidates who do not receive their 
admission cards within 2 or 3 days after the publication, should make inquiries from the Institutional Examination 
Organization Branch of the Department of Examinations as mentioned in the notiﬁ cation.
 Here it is advised to inquire from the Department of examinations with the certi ﬁ ed photocopies of the application 
form and the cash receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration in hand and mentioning the name of the 
Examination applied for, full name, NIC number and address. It would be advisable for candidates outside colombo 
to fax a letter of request including candidate's details along with a fax number of the candidate to the Department 
of Examinations through the fax number mentioned in the notiﬁ cation for sending a copy of the admission.
6.2 The signature of the applicant placed on the admission card should also be attested. An applicant who submits 
the application should get his/her signature attested by the Head of the Institution or any of ﬁ cer authorized by 
him/her. At the ﬁ rst instance of the admission in which the signature is attested should be presented ot the Head 
of the examination hall. A candidate who does not present the admission card will not be permitted to sit for the 
examination.
6.3 A candidate must sit for the Examination at the Examination hall assigned to him/her. A set of rules to be observed 
by all candidattes is published in the Gazette. The candidates are subjected to all rules and regulations imposed by 
the Commissioner General of Examinations. If such rules or regulations are violated, the candidate would have to 
face a penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
6.4 Issuance of admission card to a candidate shall not be in any way treated as that candidate had satis ﬁ ed all the 
qualiﬁ cations for the examination.
6.5 The designation and the work place of the applicant at the time of the application is made shall be relevant to all 
matters with regard to the examination and changes to the work place after forwading the application will not be 
considered.
7. Penalty for Furnishing False Information :-
7.1 Candidates should be very careful to furnish correct information in the application form. As per the rules and 
regulations of the examination, the candidature of any applicant may be cancelled at any time before, during or after 
the examination, if his/her ineligibility to sit for the examination is disclosed. If any of the particulars furnished by 
a candidate is found to be false, he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the Public Service.
8. Identity of Candidate :-
8.1 A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity to the satisfaction of the Head of Examination Hall each 
subject he/she offers. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card
(b)  Valid Passport
(c)  Valid Sri Lanka Driving License
8.2 Candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears in order to prove their identity. 
Further, any candidate who refuses to assist for proving his/her identity will not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. The candidate should remain the examination hall from the time of entering to the time of leaving the 
examination hall without covering face and ears enabling the invigilators to identify the candidate.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2023
194
9. Terms of Employment :-
9.1 An of ﬁ cer selected will be required to serve initially in Colombo at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a speci ﬁ ed 
period prior to being posted to a Sri Lanka Mission aborad. If his/her work and conduct during this initial period of 
service at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are found to be unsatisfactory, assessed by an independent body with the 
concurrence of the Heads of the Division, his/her appointment is liable to be cancelled. The period of service in the 
Ministry can be changed according to the requirements of the Ministry.
9.2. Posting will be decided on the basis of the number of vacancies available and the requirements of the respective 
Missions and the ofﬁ cer's suitability and competence (in foreign languages, etc.) and in deciding on such postings, 
there is no obligation, on the part of the Ministry to consider the ofﬁ cer's personal needs (children's education etc.) 
Further, the Ministry is  not bound to ﬁ ll the vacancies purely in accordance with the order of merit of the selection 
tests. In the event an ofﬁ cer refuses to accept the given Mission, the said appointment will be deemed as cancelled 
and any appeals made in that connection will not be entertained. Such ofﬁ cer has to re-sit for the new examination 
and face to the same procedure he/she followed in the previous examination and the interview in order to ensure 
the validity of the examination and the conditions of the fair selection criteria.
9.3  An of ﬁ cer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka Mission abroad is normally required to serve abroad for a period 
of three years in accordance with the terms and conditions as stipulated by the Secretary of Foreign Affairs and to 
enter into an agreement to the effect. This period may be extended depending on the exigency of the service.
9.4 Of ﬁ cers in Public Service (Public Management Assistants' Service/Provincial Public Service / Local Government 
Service) if selected, will continue to be paid on the presenet salary scales and the others will be paid a ﬁ xed salary 
of Rs. 32,290/- per month. In addition, they will be paid an Overseas allowance that is applicable, in accordance 
with existing rules and regulations while they are serving in Sri Lanka Missions abroad.
9.5 Once an of ﬁ cer is selected, the cost of return air passage from Sri Lanka to the country of posting, accommodation 
and other facilities stated in the Agreement signed between the ofﬁ cer and the Government, during his/her service 
abroad, in respect of the selected ofﬁ cer, his/her spouse and for a maximum of two children who are below 21 years 
of age and dependent on the ofﬁ cer only, will be born by the Government as determined by the Secretary of Foreign 
Affairs. The Ministry shall not accommodate any request to accompany any other family members other than above 
mentioned.
9.6 It is mandatory that the of ﬁ cer should return to Sri Lanka, on completion of the stipulated period of tour of duty.
10. The dicision of the Secretary of Foreign Affairs will be the ﬁ nal regarding ﬁ lling of all the vacancies or a part thereof 
or not ﬁ lling any of the existing vacancies out of the qualiﬁ ed candidates of this examination.
11.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notiﬁ cations, the Sinhala notiﬁ cation 
shall prevail.
  A
RUNI WIJEWARDANE,
  Secretary.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
3rd February, 2023.
02 - 39

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'03
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.02.2023
195
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date speci ﬁ ed for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be re-
ceived for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times speci ﬁ ed below will 
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if pub-
lication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous 
of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufﬁ cient time is allowed 
for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
T
HE SCHEDULE
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2023
 FEBRUARY  03.02.2023 Friday — 20.01.2023 Friday 12 noon
  10.02.2023 Friday –– 27.01.2023 Friday 12 noon
  17.02.2023 Friday –– 03.02.2023 Friday 12 noon
  24.02.2023 Friday –– 10.02.2023 Friday 12 noon
 MARCH  03.03.2023 Friday — 17.02.2023 Friday 12 noon
  10.03.2023 Friday –– 24.02.2023 Friday 12 noon
  17.03.2023 Friday –– 03.03.2023 Friday 12 noon
  24.03.2023 Friday –– 10.03.2023 Friday 12 noon
  31.03.2023 Friday –– 17.03.2023 Friday 12 noon
 APRIL 06.04.2023 Thursday — 24.03.2023 Friday 12 noon
  12.04.2023 Wednesday –– 31.03.2023 Friday 12 noon
  21.04.2023 Friday –– 06.04.2023 Thursday 12 noon
  28.04.2023 Friday –– 12.04.2023 Wednesday 12 noon
  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,  
01st January, 2023.