

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 522
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 516
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"958 – 2016 ud¾;= ui 11 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'03'11
No. 1,958 – FRIDAY ,  MARCH  11, 2016
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st  April, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th  March, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
513
N B.– Part II of the Gazette No. 1,957 of 04.03.2016 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
514
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are rele ased for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
515
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should perso nally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
516
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Calling of Applications for the Appointment of 
Inquirers (into Sudden Deaths) under Section 108 of the 
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
APPLICATIONS are invited to fill the vacancies in the Post of 
Inquirers (into Sudden Deaths) in the Schedule given below. 
02. Applications prepared as per the specimen form given 
below should be sent under registered cover to reach the Secretary, 
Ministry of Justice, Superio r Courts Complex, Colombo 12 on 
or before 31.03.2016. The words "Post of Inquirer (into Sudden 
Deaths) - "General Hospital, Peradeniya" should be written on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application. 
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected without 
any notice. 
03. This post is not permanent in the Public Service. The 
appointment to the Post of Inquirer (into Sudden Deaths) is made 
for a term of five years from the date of the appointment. This term 
may be extended for a further period subject to medical reports 
of the person concerned and on the recommendations of the 
Magistrate of the relevant area and Officer in Charge of the Police 
Station of such area provided that the maximum age limit of 70 
years should not be exceeded. Nevertheless, the Minister may at 
any time prior to the expiry of the term, terminate the service of 
an Inquirer (into Sudden Deaths) with the reason being assigned 
for the termination. Inquirer (into Sudden Deaths) divisions in 
which vacancies are to be filled are mentioned in the Schedule 
given below. 
04. The appointees should perform the duties of Inquirer (into 
Sudden Deaths) in accordance with the provisions of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979. 
05. This post does not carry a salary. However, a fee of                      
Rs. 500 per inquest, travelling expenses and subsistence allowances 
approved for Inquirers (into Sudden Deaths) will be paid. 
06. Persons who possess the following requirements are eligible 
to apply :-
 (a) Be a Citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (b) Be a resident within the area for which the appointment is 
expected, during last two years,
 (c) Should not be less than 30 years and not more than 62 
years of age as at the closing date of applications,
 (d) Should possess 03 passes in G. C. E. (A/L) (Priority will be 
given for the candidates who have passed) G. C. E. (A/L) 
in science stream), 
 ( e) Candidates who apply for the post of Inquirer (into 
Sudden Deaths) (Muslim) should be able to speak and 
write in Tamil,
 (f) Candidates should be physically fit and should bear a 
good moral character. Priority will be given to non-
smokers and teetolalers. 
07. Persons who are in receipt of a salary or an allowance from 
the Government, or from a fund of a Provincial Councilor or Local 
Government Institution as at the closing date of applications and 
persons who all employees and members of the Board of Directors 
of State Corporations or Co-operative Societies and members of 
Provincial Councils or Local Government Institutions as at the 
closing date of applications are not eligible to apply for this post. 
08. It is not necessary to enclose any documents with the 
application. However, applicants should produce at the interview 
sufficient proof in support of their qualifications. The originals of 
the following documents should be submitted at the interview :-
 ( a) Certificate of birth, 
 ( b) Educational Certificates, 
 ( c) National Identity Card, 
 ( d) Certificate of Grama Niladhari to prove permanent 
residence, 
 ( e) Two recent character certificates,
 ( f) Other Certificates if any, in support of additional 
qualifications, 
 ( g) In case of retired applicants documentary evidence to 
prove the date of retirement. 
09. All applications should be filled in block letters according 
to the following specimen form of application. Applications 
submitted without indicating all required information will be 
rejected without any notice. 
10. When filling the specimen form of application, accurate 
details on eligibility criteria should be included. The appointments 
of applicants falling into any category referred to in paragraph 7 
above and the appointments and applicants who have furnished 
false information relating of Paragraph 06 and 08 above will be 
cancelled, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment is 
made. 
11. If a person who is appointed as an Inquirer (into Sudden 
Deaths) is subsequently appointed to a post described in the 
aforesaid paragraph 07, his/her appointment to the Post of Inquirer 
(into Sudden Deaths) will lapse from the date of appointment to 
such post.    
 Padmasiri Jayamanne,
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Justice.
Ministry of Justice, 
Colombo 12,
17th day of February, 2016.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
517
APPLICATION FORM 
Post of Inquirer (Into Sudden Deaths)
District  Divisional Secretary's Division 
Relevant Magistrate's Court  Inquirers (into Sudden Deaths) Division
Relevant Police Station  Grama Niladhari Division where the applicant 
   is resident and  No.
01.   (a) Na me with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
    (Underline the surname)
   (b) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
02. Address :––––––––––––.
03. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
05. Date of Birth :––––––––––––.
06. Age as at 31.03.2016 :––––––––––––.
 Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.
07. Sex :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications : 
 G. C. E. (O/L) Examination : 
  Subject Grade Year Subject  Grade Year
 G. C. E. (A/L) Examination : 
  Subject Grade Year Subject  Grade Year
09. Profes sional Qualifications :––––––––––––.
10. Present occupation :––––––––––––.
11. Previous employment :––––––––––––.
12. ( a) Are you an employee of state, a State Corporation/Provincial Council Co-operative or Local Government Institution ? : 
––––––––––––.
 ( b) If you have resigned/retired from service of the establishment above, reason for resignation/retirement :––––––––––––.
 ( c) The date of resignation/retirement :––––––––––––.
13. ( a) Has your employer taken any disciplinary actions against you :––––––––––––.
 ( b) If so, the nature of the charge and the outcome :––––––––––––.
14. ( a) (i) Have you ever been used for any offence in any Court of Law ? :––––––––––––.
 (i) Has any complaint to which you were party been ever made to a Mediation Board for mediation :––––––––––––.
 (ii) If so, the date result thereof :––––––––––––.
15. ( a) Do you presently hold a post of inquirer (into Sudden Deaths) ? :––––––––––––.
 ( b) If so, the date of first appointment and file No. of the Ministry ? :––––––––––––.
16. Details of other qualifications, if any, relevant to this appointment :––––––––––––.
17. Names, addresses and designations of the two persons who gave character certificates :-
 (1) ...................................... (2) ......................................
  ......................................  ......................................
  .............. ........................  ......................................

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
518
I do hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––––.
Schedule
 Divisional Secretary's Inquirer Grama Niladhari Division 
 Division  (into Sudden Deaths) Division and No.
Kandy Four Gravets and Gangawata Korale General Hospital (Teaching), Peradeniya Getambe 259
03-324
––––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION 
Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogues and Official Languages 
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER (GRADE III OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 
CATEGORY) ON OPEN BASIS 
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the citizens of Sri Lanka who satisfy the below mentioned qualifications for the Post of Legal 
Officer of the Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogues and Official Languages.
1. Method of Recruitment.– Out of the applicants who satisfy the qualifications prescribed in this notification, the applicants 
who obtain highest marks at a structured interview conducted by an interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission shall 
be recruited based on the existing number of vacancies. The structured interview shall be conducted in conformity with the marking 
scheme (shown herein under No. 06) approved by the Public Service Commission. 
2. Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications :
  Shall possess a Degree in Law from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission/shall have taken 
oath as an Attorney-at-law of the Supreme Court. 
 (ii) Experience :
  Shall possess not less than three (03) years professional experience of active practice subsequent to taking oath as 
an attorney-at-law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka.
 (iii) Physical Qualifications :
  Every candidate should be of a good physical and mental fitness as to be able to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and 
discharge the duties of the post. 
  (iv) Other Qualifications : 
 *  Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 *  Should be of an excellent moral character,
 * Shall have fulfilled in all aspects the qualifications prescribed for the post on or before the closing date  of 
applications,
 * Shall have obtained at least a credit pass for the English Language at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination or the        
G. C. E. (A/L) examination, 
 * Should possess an excellent command of the English Language and the ability to carry out judicial affairs in 
the English Language. 
3. Age limit.– Applicants should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age on the closing date of applications. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
519
4. Conditions of Appointment and Service : 
 (i) This post is permanent.
 (ii) This appointment is subject to a probation period of three years. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be 
passed within 03 years from the date of recruitment to the post of Legal Officer Grade III, as mentioned in the 
Appointment Procedure.
 (iii) As per the Public Circular No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014, proficiency in the official language other than the 
official language in which an officer joins the service should be acquired within five years from appointment to 
the post and the officers who join the service in a medium other than an official language should acquire the due 
official language proficiency within the probation period. 
 (iv) This appointment is subject to the procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, Establishments Code 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Financial Regulations of the Government and other 
Departmental directives. 
5. Salary Scale.– This post is entitled to a monthly salary scale of Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 -8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (SL1-
2006 salary category of the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated 25.04.2006).
6. The structured interview will be based on the following marking scheme : 
  Subject Marks Maximum Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications  20
 Degree in Law from a recognized university
 – First Class 20
 – Second Class upper division 15
 – Second Class lower division 10
 First Class in the final year of Law College 15
 Second Class in the final year of Law College 10
 Note : 10 marks should be given only in the case of passing the final exam with Honours.
 (Marks are given only for maximum qualifications either LLB or Law College Qualifications)
02. Additional Professional Qualifications  15
 A Doctorate in Law 15
 Post Graduate Degree in Law (Academic period not less than one year) 10
 Post Graduate Diploma in relevant field or Post Graduate Diploma in law from a recognized 
  institute (Academic period not less than one year)
 (5 marks for each diploma - Maximum 15 marks)
 Diploma in relevant field from a recognized institute (Academic period not less than six 
  months)
 (3 marks for each diploma - Maximum 15 marks)
 Certificate course in relevant field at a recognized institute (Academic period not less than
  three months)
 (2 marks for each certificate course - maximum 10 marks)
03. Additional Experience  30
 Experience as an Attorney-at-Law in Public Service or private sector
 – over 06 months and below one year - 2 marks 
 5 marks for each year - maximum 30 marks
 (Excluding the 3 year - service period as an Attorney-at-law required to satisfy the basic 
  qualification)
 (Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate from an Attorney at Law with a 
  service period not less than 20 years or a President's Counsel or a Judge)

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
520
04. Proficiency in English Language  15
 Postgraduate Degree/Degree/Post Graduate LLB Degree/LLB Degree studied in English 15
  medium 
 (All relevant question papers shall have been answered in English medium)
 English Language Diploma from a university recognized by the University Grants  10
  Commission or an institution recognized by the government 
 (Duration - 1 year of 1500 hours)
 English Language Certificate course from a university recognized by the University Grants 
  Commission or an institution recognized by the government
 – 06 months/720 hours 07
 – 03 months/360 hours 05
 (Marks are given only for maximum qualifications)
05. Computer literacy  15
 Having studied Information Technology as a main subject for a Degree from a university 15
  recognized by the University Grants Commission
 A diploma (01year or 1500 hours) in information technology from an institution recognized 10
  by the government 
 A certificate course in information technology at an institution recognized by the government :
 – 06 months/720 hours 07
 – 03 months/360 hours 05
 (Marks are given only for maximum qualifications)
I. Aptitude shown at the interview  05
           Total   100
07. Identity of the Applicants.– Only the applicants who have submitted applications which are complete in all aspects will 
be called for the structured interview. 
Originals of all applicable certificates with their duly certified copies should be submitted at the interview. 
Any of the following identity cards are acceptable for establishing the applicant's Identity at the interview : 
 (i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner General of Registration of Persons, 
 (ii) Valid passport. 
08. Submission of applicatons : 
 ( a) The completed application forms should be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or before 
11.04.2016. Applications received after the clsoing date shall be rejected. 
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of National Co-existence, Dialogues and Official Languages, 
  No. 40, Buthgamuwa Road, 
  Rajagiriya.
 ( b) The words "Application for the Post of Legal Officer" should be indicated on the top left-hand corner of the 
envelope enclosing the application. 
 ( c) Candidate's signature in the application form should be attested by a Principal of a Government School, a Justice 
of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Attorney at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces 
or an Officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service and receiving a monthly consolidated salary not less 
than Rs. 22,935.
  Subject Marks Maximum Marks

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
521
 ( d) The candidates who are currently in the Public Service 
or the Provincial Public Service should submit their 
applications through the Head of the Department 
under whom they serve. 
 (e) The applications which are not in conformity with the 
specimen application appended to this notification 
are liable to rejection. Any complaint on applications 
getting lost or delayed will not be considered.  
9. Furnishing false information. – If any of the particulars in 
the application submitted by you is found to be false or incorrect 
prior to the recruitment, your candidature is liable to be cancelled. 
If any of such particulars are found to be false or incorrect after 
the recrutiment, you are liable to dismissal from the service, 
subject to the relevant procedures in that regard. 
10. The Public Service Commission reserves the power to fill 
or not to fill these vacancies. 
By order of the Public Service Commission, 
 V.  B. Pearl K. WeeraSinghe, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of National Co-existence, 
 Dialogues and Official Languages, 
 Rajagiriya. 
SPecimen aPPlication 
recruitment to the PoSt of legal officer of the miniStry of 
national co-exiStence, dialogueS and official languageS 
For office use only     
01. 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
  (In English block capitals)
 1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
  (In English block capitals)
 1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
  (In English block capitals)
 2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
 Fixed :–––––––––––––.   Mobile :–––––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
05.  5.1 Date of birth :
   Year :––––––––,  Month :––––––––,  Date :–––––––.
  5.2 Age as at 11.04.2016 : 
   Years :––––––––, Months :–––––––, Days :–––––––.
06. Educational/Professional Qualifications :
  6.1 Particulars of the Degree in Law :
 (i) Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) University/Institution :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) Language Medium :–––––––––––––.
  Or
 (iv) Date of taking oath as an Attorney-at-law of 
the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka. 
  6.2 Grade obtained for the Engish language at the G. 
C. E. (O/L) Examination or at the G. C. E. (A/L) 
Examination :–––––––––––––.
07. Experience as an Attorney-at-Law (Number of years) :       
–––––––––––––.
08. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court of 
Law ? :–––––––––––––.
 (If yes, give details including the date and the Case No.)
09. Applicants' Declaration : 
I ................................... solemnly declare that the particulars 
furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the 
best of my knowledge. I certify that on any occasion I have not 
been subject to dismissal from the Public Service or compulsory 
retirement for general inefficiency as a merciful alternative and 
not been deemed to have vacated a post in the Public Service, I 
am also aware that I am liable to disqualification, if any particular 
contained herein is found to be false or incorrect prior to 
appointment and if such is detected after appointment, I am liable 
to dismissal from service without any compensation. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Applicant's Signature. 
Date :–––––––––––––.
10. Attestation of the Applicant's Signature : 
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...............................
. (Full name) who submits this application is known to me 
personally and He/She placed his/her signature in my presence 
on ...............................
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting 
  the Signature. 
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the officer attesting the signature :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
(Applicant's signature should be attested by a Principal of a 
Government School, a Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, 
Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the 
Armed Forces or an Officer holding a permanent post in the 
Public Service whose consolidated monthly salary is not less than 
Rs. 22,935)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
522
11. Report of the Head of Department, if the applicant is in the Public Service : 
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................................... (Full name) who submits this application is currently 
serving as a permanent/temporary/casual officer of this Ministry/Department and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on 
........................ I also inform that he/she can/cannot be released from the service, in the event of his/her being selected for this post. 
  ––––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of Department. 
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the Head of Department :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
03–351
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF HEALTH,  NUTRITION  AND  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE 
Departmental   Examination   for   Preliminary   Grade
Medical   Officers   and   Dental   Surgeons – March,  2016
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination should be passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary Grade before promotion 
to Grade II, By Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service and by the Medical officers in Administrative Grade or Specialist 
Grade who have not completed this Departmental Examination during a period of two years from the date of appointment to such 
post as per Section 08 of the Medical Service Minute of Sri Lanka in the Health Services published in the Gazette Extraordinary of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of 11.10.2014, will be held on 10.04.2016 in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
medium. The venue and the time of the examination will be notified along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Medical Officers in the Preliminary Grade who have not completed the relevant examination and Dental 
Surgeons who are not confirmed in the service can apply for this examination. Medical officer appointed to a post in the Administrative 
Grade or Speicalist Grade without having completed this examination also can apply for the above Examination.
03. Applications.– Applications that should be prepared by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of this circular 
must be handed over to the Head of the institute on or before 19.03.2016. The applications that are certified as all the eligibilities 
have been fulfilled, should be forwarded to the Director (Examinations), Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine, 
“Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 24.03.2016 through their Heads 
of Institutions. The Head of Division should certify the accuracy of contents in each application. A self addressed envelope in the size 
of 9” x 4” inches, affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 35.00 should be sent along with the application. (Candidates can write their 
official or private address). Applications which are received late, incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using an A4 paper based on the specimen form of the application so as to 
recommended from 01 to 04(e) on the first front page and from 04(f) to 09 on the second page. Applications which do 
not conform to above will be rejected any information. 
04. Examination fees :
 (i)  Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, in every subsequent 
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application 
and cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
 (ii)  The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination:
 (i)  Candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly complete 
and submit same to the Supervisor at the Examination Centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the examination.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
523
 (ii)  Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following 
documents will be accepted :
  ( a) National Identity Card ;
  ( b) Departmental Identity Card ;
  ( c) Valid Driving License ;
  ( d) Valid Passport.
 (iii) If you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination centre 
and the index number through the web site ; If you were able to trace your examination centre and the index number 
as mentioned above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre in the web site together with a 
letter attesting your signature by your immediate superior officer and sit the examination by establishment of your 
identity. The applicants who have received the admission card should certify their signature and should be bought. 
The applicants who have obtained the certification on their signature will not be entitled to face the examination. (Web 
site : www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consists of four parts that is three written essay type question papers 
and a Sinhala/Tamil oral test. Each part carries 100 marks. A minimum of 50 marks should be obtained for each part to pass the 
examination and this examination could be completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of the examination in several sittings. At 
the first attempt officer should appear for all relevant subjects. 
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
7.1 Written Examination :
 7.1.1  Establishments Code :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions.  
Syllabus :
 (i)  General Regulations of the Department of Health Services in Health Ministry ;
 (ii)  Orders and Regulations of the Public Service Commission ;
 (iii) Establishments Code :
 ( a)  Part I - Chapters VI, VII, VIII, IX, XII, XIII, XIV , XV , XVI, XVII, XVIII, XVIII, XXIII, XXIV , XXV , XXVI, 
XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII
 ( b)  Part II - Chapters XLVII and XLVIII ;
 7.1.2  Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries :
  Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should answers four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
  Syllabus :
  Health Manual :
 (i) Administration of Hospital and Public Health, 
 (ii) Management of Laboratory Services, 
 (iii) Management of Drugs.
 7.1.3  Accounts :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer 04 questions out of 07 questions.  
  Syllabus :
  (i)  Regulations of Stores Accounts of the Department of Health Services ;
 (ii)  Sections of Finance in the Manual of the Department of Health Services ;
 (iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health -  
Chapter I - F. R. 1, 2, 78.
Chapter II - F. R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 115, 118, 119.
Chapter III - F. R. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 143, 151, 152, 
154, 155, 156, 189.
Chapter V - F. R. 200, 201, 215, 225, 238, 245, 255, 257, 260.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
524
Chapter VI - F. R. 380, 381, 382, 383, 384, 385, 386, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393 394.
Chapter VII - F. R. 488, 493.
Chapter XIII- F. R. 715, 716, 756, 757, 758.
Procurement Guideline : 
Chapter 1 - All Sections
Chapter 2 - Section number - 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8.
Chapter 3 - Section number - 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9.   
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : This oral test is conducted by the staff officers of the Departmental to measure the proficiency 
in Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala medium officers to communicate in Tamil medium and the ability of the Tamil 
medium officers to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters that arise while discharging their normal 
duties is tested. Duration 10 minutes. 
8. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized Compaign/
Institution. The information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
N.B.– Sinhala medium notification on examination will be effected if any contradictory is arisen in the examination 
notifications published in Tamil and English mediums. 
 m. B. l. rahuman,
 Deputy Director General (Admin.) II,
 for Secretary of Health, Nutirition and Indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine,  
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
24th February, 2016.
Specimen Form of Application
 
For Office Use Only                
DEPARTMENTAL  EXAMINATION  FOR  PRELIMINARY  GRADE
MEDICAL  OFFICERS  AND  DENTAL  SURGEONS - MARCH, 2016
01. (a)  (i)  Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials at the end) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials at the end) :
 (iii)  Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
  (b)  (i)  Designation (Please mark () in relevant cage) :
   (i) Medical Officer   (ii) Dental Surgeon
 (ii)  Date of Internship Appointment :–––––––––––––.
 (iii)  Date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade II :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “X” against the subjects not 
offered) :
 Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Establishments Code  Accounts
 Sinhala Viva Voce Tamil Viva Voce

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
525
03. Medium you sit for the examination  (Mark ‘’ in relevant cage)
 Sinhala :                     English :                       Tamil : 
04.  (a)  (i) Present Station :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) This Institution belongs to :  Line Ministry
       Provincial Council
 ( b)  District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
 ( c) Telephone No. :
 ( d) Identity Card No. :
 ( e)  Please mark  “ ” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (If any or several 
examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due to absence of a 
sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers would be re-attached to a 
closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the Director General of Health Services).
  Colombo Kandana Hambantota Ampara
  Kaluthara Galle Badulla Vavuniya
  Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura Polonnaruwa
  Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna Trincomalie
 ( f)  Whether a self-addressed envelop in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 35.00 has been attached to 
the application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.
 ( g)  (i)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (In English Capitals) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a)  Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
 ( b)  If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
 (i)  I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I 
need not affix stamps since, I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs. ………… since 
I repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and not used.
 (ii)  I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Department of Health for the conduct of this Examination 
and if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination I agree with whatever decision taken for 
the cancellation of my candidature.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of the officer who have handle the Personal File : 
I certified that the application have submitted before the closing date, particulars furnished in the application are true and 
correct to his/her personal file, applicant is eligi3ble to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination Grade II for Nursing Officers and filed a 
copy of this application above the officers personal file. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Name and Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
526
08. Certification of Head of Institution :
 
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………is well known to me and in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars available 
in his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the examination he/she* sits the Examination for the first time/repeats the 
Examination* he/she* need not affix stamps/has affixed stamps to the value of Rs.……… to the Application and he/she* placed his/
her* signature in my presence.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Institution/Frank/Rubber Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the particulars 
furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* personal file and he/she* 
is eligible to sit for the Examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
 Specialised Campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :––––––––––––.
(* - Delete words which are inapplicable)
03–316
–––––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  FOREIGN  AFFAIRS
1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examinations
 and Second Language Test for the Officers of the Sri 
Lanka Foreign Service – 2015/2016
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination and 
the Second Language Test for Officers in the Sri Lanka Foreign 
Service will be held i n Colombo and in Sri Lanka Missions 
abroad in June 2016.  The oral examination will be held only in 
Colombo.
02. The Time Table would be prepared enabling the candidates 
to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. Syllabus.– Syllabus and other Provisions by which the 
First and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations are governed are 
indicated in the Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute.
Syllabus and other provisions for the Second Language Test 
are indicated in Appendix “A” while syllabus and other provisions 
for the 1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examinations and for the foreign 
languages are indicated in Appendix “B”.
Officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency 
Bar Examination at one or more sittings.  Action will be taken 
to conduct Oral Tests for the officers who sit for the Second 
Language Test at the same venue at the same time.
04. The subjects for which the officers should appear in the 
Efficiency Bar are as follows:
1St EFFICIENCY BAR
 Subject  Subject Duration 
    No.  hours
Part i
01. Finance 03
02. History and Geography of Sri Lanka 03
Part II
03. Elementary Constitutional  03
 Law and International Law
04. Diplomatic Practice  03
05. International Affairs 03
06. The Sri Lanka Foreign Service   03
 Minute, Foreign Ministry
 Regulations and Computer
 Literacy
2nd EFFICIENCY BAR
Part I
 Subject  Subject Duration 
    No.  hours
21. Economic & Social   03
 Development in Sri Lanka
22. Administration  03
 ( a) Office systems & Organizational Methods
 ( b) Establishments Code (V olume I & V olume II)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
527
 Subject  Subject Duration 
    No.  hours
Part II
23. Elementary Constitutional
 Law and International Law 03
24. Diplomatic Practice                 03
25. International Affairs 03
FOREIGN LANGUAGES
 Subject  Subject Duration 
    No.  hours
07. Arabic 02         
08. French 02
09. Russian 02
10. Spanish            02
11. Hindi      02
12. Chinese 02
13. German 02
14. Japanese 02
15. English 02
16. Korean 02                 
SECOND LANGUAGES
 Subject  Subject Duration 
    No.  hours
30 Sinhala (Written) 02
31 Tamil (Written) 02
32 English (Written) 02
33 Sinhala (Oral)  
34 Tamil (Oral)
35 English (oral)
05. The attention of the Officers sitting for these Efficiency 
Bar Examinations is drawn to the paragraph 5 of the Treasury 
Circular No. 701 dated 04th September 1966 which is reproduced 
below:
“Departmental examinations (including Promotional and 
Efficiency Bar Examinations) – The medium for Promotional 
Examinations as well as Efficiency Bar Examinations should 
be the language in which the officer sat for the Competitive 
Examination to enter the Public Service or the Official Language.  
In case where initial recruitment has been taken place without a 
competitive examination, the medium for Promotional/Efficiency 
Bar Examinations should be the language in which the officer 
was qualified for entry into the Public Service or the Official 
Language.”
05.1 Issuance of Results:
 Candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or above 
for each subject for a pass. Two separate result sheets, 
containing results of individual candidates, pertaining to 
both First & Second Efficiency Bar Examination will be 
sent to Secretary External Affairs by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations.
06.  Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner-General 
of Examinations for the candidates to answer the question papers 
in Sinhala, Tamil or English, except for the question papers on 
foreign languages.  Medium applied to sit for the examination 
cannot be changed.
07. If a candidate is later found to have sat in a medium in 
which he is not entitled to sit, his candidature will be cancelled.
08. Application forms should be prepared in an A-4 size paper 
as per the specimen appended to this notification, containing 
items 1-8 on the first page and the rest on the second page.  
Both sides of the paper should be used.  Applications should 
be filled in applicant’s own handwriting clearly.  Applications 
prepared in Sinhala and Tamil medium should also bear the name 
of the examination in English.  Candidates appearing for both 
examinations should submit separate applications in respect of 
each Examination.
Applications which are not in conformity with the specimen 
and not provided with the required details will be rejected without 
notification.  Applicants are advised to keep a photocopy of the 
application.
09. The examinations will be conducted by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by the 
rules and regulations prescribed by the Commissioner General 
for the conduct of examination.
10. All applicants should send their applications to the Overseas 
Administration Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to 
forward them to the Commissioner General of Examinations, on 
or before 12 th April, 2016. Those w ho are serving in Sri Lanka 
missions abroad should send their applications through the Heads 
of Mission.  Any Application received after the closing date will 
be rejected.
11. Admission will be issued to all candidates who had duly 
submitted the applications by the Commissioner General of 
Examination.  If a candidate does not receive his/her admission 
on time, it is advisable for him/her to make a request by fax 
with photocopies of the application and the receipt to the 
Commissioner General of Examination.  It is also advised to 
indicate a fax number in the request enabling the Commissioner 
General of Examination to fax a copy of the Admission to the 
candidate. (The fax No. of the Organization and Foreign Exams 
Branch, the Department of Examinations is 0112784232)
12. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to 
comply with the requirements as stipulated in paragraph 11 above 
will not be entertained. Candidates should sit for the examination 
at the examination hall assigned to him/her. Every candidate who 
appears for the examination should produce to the Supervisor of 
the examination hall, the admission card with his/her signature 
attested. Candidates who fail to produce his/her admission card 
will not be allowed to sit for the examination. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
528
13. The following are the documents of Identity acceptable at 
the examination centre :
 (1) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner 
of Registration of Persons.
 (2) Valid Passport.
14. Candidates who sit for the examination for the first time 
are exempted from exam fees, while in the case of subsequent 
sittings fees will be levied on the following basis;
 ( a) First sitting (whole examination or part thereof):  
free of charge
 ( b) Each subsequent sitting : Rs.  cts
  Complete examination 1000.0
  One Subject 500.0
  Oral Test  300.0
The fees should be paid to any District or Divisional Secretariat 
credited to the revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations and the receipt should be pasted in the 
relevant cage of the application.
It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
15. The decision of the Public Service Commission will be 
final with regard to any matter that has not been mentioned in 
this notification.  The decision of the Commissioner General of 
Examinations will be the final with regard to the examinations.
 chitranganee WagiSWara,
       Secretary/Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
04th March, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
miniStry of foreign affairS
 For office use only
1St and 2nd efficiency Bar examinationS and Second language 
teSt for the officerS of the Sri lanKa foreign Service - 
2015(2016)
    
Medium
 Sinhala -     2
 Tamil -     3                     
 English -     4
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
01. The examination applied for  
 (Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
Examination Relevant No.
Efficiency bar 1 1
Efficiency bar  2 2
Second language 3
Foreign language 4
02. (i) Name in full (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  ( Eg; HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN 
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
  (ii)   Last name with Initials:…………………………….
  (In English block capitals. Put the initials after the last 
name Eg. GUNAWARDHANA, H.M.S.K.)
 (iii) Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
03. Address (for dispatch of admission cards) :–––––––––––. 
(In English block capitals)
04. Date of Birth:
 Date:      Month :   Year :
05. National Identity Card No. :
      
 
06. Sex:
 (Pl. mark the relevant number in the cage)
  Male   – 0
  Female   – 1
07. Date of appointment to the Sri Lanka Foreign Service :
 Date:      Month :   Year :
08. Present post :–––––––––––.
09. Subjects offered should be clearly stated with the subject 
numbers given in para. 04 of the notification. (Applicants 
will be allowed to sit for subjects indicated in the application 
only.)
 Subject Subject No.
 i.  
 ii.  
 iii.  
 iv.  
 v.  
 vi.  
10. State whether the applicant had appeared for the whole 
examination or part thereof previously. If so, state the index 
number, subjects, year and month : ………………………..
I, declare that the information furnished above is accurate and 
that, I am eligible to sit for this examination in the language medium 
indicated above.  Further, I abide by the rules and regulations laid 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
529
down by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard 
to the conduct of the examination.
The receipt No. ……………………………….. for payment 
of examination fee is annexed.
 Fee paid :Rs. ……………………….
   
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Original Receipt should be pasted here
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
Commissioner General of Examinations :
      
   
Forwarded.
I, do hereby certify that the information furnished above is 
accurate and that Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………..is eligible to 
appear for this examination in the language medium indicated by 
him/her. I also attest the applicant’s signature.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and Designation of the 
                                                   Head of Department.
Date ––––––––––––––,
(Official Stamp)
Appendix “A”
SINHALA
Part
The written paper will be of a two hour duration and candidates 
are required to obtain 40% marks or above in this paper for a pass.  
It will contain questions on:
 (i) Grammar.
 (ii) Translation of petitions or Gramaseva Niladhari’s 
reports written in Sinhala into English.
 (iii) Translation of an official letter or a document in 
English into Sinhala.
The Oral Test will consist of the following:
 (i) Interpret in Sinhala an official material written in 
English, so that the passage can be understood and 
taken down in writing by a Sinhala speaking person.
 (ii) Reading a petition written in Sinhala.
 (iii) Conversation and Interpretation.
The purpose of the test will be to assess the candidates’ ability 
of understanding Sinhala Language as it is spoken by different 
native speakers and of making him/herself understood both in 
common conversation and in the usual course of official business.
TAMIL
The Test in Tamil will consist of a written part and an oral part.
The written paper will be of a two hour duration and candidates 
are required to obtain 40% marks or above in this paper for a pass.  
It will contain questions on:
  (i) Grammar.
 (ii) Translation of petitions or Gramaseva Niladhari’s 
reports written in Tamil into English.
 (iii) Translation of an official letter or a document in 
English into Tamil.
The Oral Test will consist of the following:
 (i) Interpret in Tamil an official material written in 
English, so that the passage can be understood and 
taken down in writing by a Tamil speaking person.
 (ii) Reading a petition written in Tamil.
 (iii) Conversation and Interpretation. 
The purpose of the test will be to assess the candidates’ power 
of understanding Tamil Language as it is spoken by different 
native speakers and of making him/herself understood both in 
common conversation and in the usual course of official business.
ENGLISH
The English paper will be of a two hour duration and candidates 
are required to obtain 40% marks or above in this paper for a pass.  
It will contain questions on:
 (i) Grammer.
 (ii) Comprehension.
 (iii) Précis writing.
 (iv) Report and letter writing.
 (v) V ocabulary.
 
A prototype of the question paper is furnished below for the 
information of candidates.
Part A
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb given 
within brackets:-
  During the last war our country ………. 1 (be) a 
British Colony ………….2 (take) a full part in the 
war effort.  Consequently our tea, rubber and coconut 
……………………… 3 (ship) to Britain at very favourable 
prices and the foreign exchange we ………………. 4 
(earn) ……………………… 5 (accumulate) as assets.  
Again during the Korean war in the early fifties our 
products …………………. 6 (fetch) good prices and we 
……………………….. 7 (not have) any exchange problem.  

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
530
However, political independence …………………….. 
8 (not given rise) to any effort to …………………… 9 
(build up) our economy we …………………………. 10 
(be) a nation of consumers and we …………………… 
11 (Squander) our foreign exchange on consumer goods 
which ………………………… 12 (can produce) locally 
and incidentally diversified our economy.  Over the last 
decade we ………………. 13 (begin) to feel the pinch 
when our primary products …………………. 14 (fail) 
to command good prices in the world market while our 
requirements of food both rice and subsidiary food stuffs 
……………………….. 15 (rise) in price.
(b) Fill in the blanks with the correct preposition (where 
necessary):
 As Assistant Secretary ………………………. 16 
charge ………………………….. 17 subjects. It was 
my duty to convene groups of officers dealing 
…………………………. 18 different aspects of 
development work in the Ministry ………….  19 time to 
time.  They discussed ………………………… 20 various 
problems that they confronted and which they could not 
cope ……………………… 21 on their own.  We were 
thus able to share our experience ………………………… 
22 ea ch other and make concrete proposals 
……………………….. 23 the Secretary every month.  He 
in turn put … …………………….. 24 his own plans for 
discussion …………………………. 25 these meetings.
(c) Underline the correct letters given within brackets that 
would complete the spelling of the following words.
26. Har……………ment (rass/as/ass).
27. Ember…………….(rass/as/ass).
28. Tol…………………. (arreance/erance/erence)
29. Par………………..arian (liament/limen/liment)
30. Bal…………………..ing (let/lat/lot)
31. Itin……………………. (erary/array/erarie)
32. Pers…………(everance/everence/ewerence)
33. Bour……………… (geoise/joursie/juwarsy)
34. Prolet……………………….. (ariet/ariat/eriyat)
35. Com………………ate (memorr/emor/memor)
(d) In each of the following statements underline the correct 
word within brackets:-
36. The inventory was checked by the Board of (Survellance/
Survey/Surveyors).
37. At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the accused 
officer had(contradicted/contravened/contaminated) the 
regulations.
38. Every receipt should have a (counterfoil/ counterfeit/ 
counterpane) for the purpose of audit.
39. There was a possibility that the prosecution had(fabricated/
fumigated/promulgate) the evidence.
40. (Discrete/Discretionary/Discriminatory) power was given 
to the Head of the Department under the relevant Act.
41. The Police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush until the 
bribe taker arrived.
42. The entire staff turned upon (facilitate/ infiltrate/felicitate) 
the watcher on his retirement.
43. In times of national crises we must avoid (luxuriant/ 
luxurious) habits.
44. Martial music was played over the radio during height 
of the battle to keep up the (moral/morale/morals) of the 
people.
45. Candidates are advised to use (Stationary / Stationery) 
sparingly owning to the acute paper shortage.
(e) Underline the correct phrase in the brackets that means the 
same as the word or phrase underlined in each sentence.
46. In good management the boss should, support his staff in 
their work (back out/ back up/ back away).
47. The sales and replacement of stock amounted to over       
Rs. 5,000 (turn out/ turn up/ turn away).
48. We were warned at the start not to let out work get into 
arrears (set out/outset).
49. They younger son wasted his father’s wealth in a few 
years. (ran over/ran through).
50. I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred me from 
going (put away/put off).
Part B
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the 
questions set out below:
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, 
liberty, constitutional government, and respect for the law or at 
least the definitions of them began with the reflection of Greek 
thinkers upon the institutions of City State.  But in the long history 
of political thought the meaning of such terms has been variously 
modified and always the meaning has to be understood in the 
light of the institutions by which the indicates were to be realized 
and of the society in which those institutions did their work. The 
Greek City States was so different from the political communities 
in which modern men live that it requires no small effort of the 
imagination to picture its social and political life.  The Greek 
Philosophers were thinking of political practices far different 
from any that have prevailed commonly in modern world, and 
the whole climate of opinion in which the work was done was 
different. Their problems though not without their analogies 
in the preset, were never identical with modern problems, and 
the ethical apparatus by which political life was evaluated and 
criticized varied widely from and that now prevails.  In order to 
understand at all accurately what their theories meant is necessary 
first to realize at least roughly what kind of institutions they had 
in view and what citizenship connected, as an effect and as an 
ideal to the public for whom they wrote.  For this purpose the 
Government of Athens-is especially important, partly because it 
is the best known, but chiefly because it was an object of special 
concern to the greatest of Greek Philosophers.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
531
As compared with modern states the ancient City-State was 
exceedingly small both in area and in population.  The numbers 
were exceedingly uncertain but a figure somewhat in excess of 
three hundred thousand would be approximately correct.  Such an 
arrangement of a small territory dominated by a single City was 
typical off the City State.
In each of the following cases, choose the alternative which in 
your opinion supports the views expressed in the above passage.  
Place a tick (right mark) against the correct answer –
51. Athens in significant for the students of Greek political 
thought mainly because –
 ( a) it was the most powerful of the Greek City States
 ( b) it’s ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks 
themselves
 ( c) it had the most ideal form of Government
 ( d) it is the best known of the Greek City-States 
52.  Greek political thought was concerned with problems
 ( a) entirely unrelated to
 ( b) identical withy
 ( c) different from Analogous but to 
53. The moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is 
 ( a) very similar to modern moral and religious ideas
 ( b) unknown
 ( c) very different from modern moral and religious ideas
54. It is
 ( a) easy
 ( b) not at all easy
 ( c) impossible
55. In comparison with the ancient Greek City States are 
 ( a) very large
 ( b) very small
 ( c) about the same size
56. The population of an ancient Greek City States was
 ( a) much less than 300,000
 ( b) over 3 million
 ( c) just over 300,000
57. The City-State of Athens comparisons
 ( a) a small territory governed by a singly city
 ( b) a large territory governed by a number of cities
 ( c) a small territory with village councils
 ( d) a large territory with a decentralized administration
 
58. At different times in the history of the world people 
 ( a) have thought in basically the same way
 ( b) have thought in different ways
 ( c) have contradicted the views of people of the previous 
generation
59. Details of political theory are derived from Greek Political 
thought
 ( a) because the Greek City States was very similar to modern 
states
 ( b) in spite of Greek City State being very different from 
modern States
 ( c) because modern political theorists are students of Greek 
Philosophy
60. The meaning of political ideal at a particular moment in 
European History since the time of the Greeks can be defined 
only be
 ( a) Relating it to its context
 ( b) Tracing it back to its original meaning among the Greeks
 ( c) Investigating the meaning of the Greek word for it
 ( d) Taking into account only those features in it which have 
persisted throughout its history.
61. Write sentences using each of the following words so as to 
bring out its meaning clearly:-
 Arbitration, emoluments, etiquette, consolidates, hypothetical, 
retrospective, exigencies, evaluate, review, empower.
EITHER
62. Write a letter to the Head of an Educational Institute in 
an English speaking country, setting out the following 
information in an orderly manner :
 (i) The equivalence of our examination certificate 
to the certificate specified in this letter cannot be 
determined as the examining authorities in Sri 
Lanka have not bee n consulted by the institution 
concerned in that country.
 (ii) The G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Credit Pass has been 
officially equated with an Ordinary Pass in London 
G.C.E. (Ordinary Level).
 (iii) The receipt of the letter sent to the Commissioner 
of Examinations is acknowledged.
 (iv) Any further information in this matter may be 
obtained from the Embassy of the Republic of Sri 
Lanka in that country.
63. Write a memorandum to the Secretary, Bureau of Standards 
marking out a case for the adoption of the 24 hours clock in 
this country stating the advantages of such a measure.
Appendix “B”
I. FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION
1.1 The first Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of two 
parts and officers may take both parts at one sitting or 
separately.
1.2 The examination will be conducted in the following 
subjects.
Part I
 (i) Finance – This paper is based on the following:
 ( a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of 
Sri Lanka, Part I
  (Except Chapter X)
 ( b) The estimates of the current year
  E.g. Their arrangement, the heads of revenue, 
financial systems and Appropriation Acts.
 ( c) Ordinances related to specific accounts maintained 
by the Kachcheries.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
532
 (ii) History and Geography of Sri Lanka.
Part ii – SPecial PaPerS
 (i) Elementary Constitutional law and International Law
 (ii) Diplomatic Practice
 (iii) International Affairs
 (iv) The  Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute, Foreign 
Ministry Regulations and Computer Literacy.
1.3 Each of the above papers will be of a three hour duration 
and candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or 
above in each paper for a pass.
1.4 An officer will be permitted to sit each paper separately 
on any number of occasions and will be deemed to have 
passed the respective paper when he/she has obtained 
the qualifying marks in respect of each paper.
2. SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION
2.1 The Second Efficiency Bar Examination will consist 
of two parts and the officers may take both parts at one 
sitting or separately.
2.2 2.2 The examination will be conducted in the following 
subjects.
Part I
 (i) Economic and Social Development in Sri Lanka 
 (ii) Administration – This paper is based on the following:
 (a) Office systems and organizational methods
 (b) Establishments Code – V olume I and V olume II.
Part ii – SPecial PaPerS
 (i) Elementary Constitutional Law and International Law
 (ii) Diplomatic practice 
 (iii) International Affairs
 
2.3 Each of the above papers will be of a three hour duration 
and candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or above 
in each paper for a pass.
2.4 An officer will be permitted to sit for each paper separately 
on any number of occasions and will be deemed to have 
passed the respective paper when he/she has obtained the 
qualifying marks in respect of each paper.
 Note:
 (i) Questions on Constitutional Law will be mainly 
on the evolution of the parliamentary System 
of government, with special reference to the 
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka.  Questions on International Law 
will include inter – state relations, both bilateral 
and multilateral and the rights and duties of States 
in relation to them, diplomatic law and the law of 
treaties.
 (ii) An officer who is an Attorney-at-Law or who 
has obtained a degree in Law from a recognized 
university will be exempted from the paper on 
Elementary Constitutional Law and International 
law provided he has secured a pass in those subjects 
at the relevant Examination.
3. FOREIGN LANGUAGES
3.1   Foreign Languages
           (i)   Arabic 
          (ii)   French 
 (iii) Russian    
    (iv) Spanish 
 (v) Hindi 
 (vi)  Chinese
 (vii)  Germany
     (viii)  Japanese
  (ix)   English
   (x)   Korean
3.2 Aforesaid each written question papers on foreign 
languages will be of two hours duration.  Candidates 
are required to obtain 40% marks or above in each 
paper for a pass.
Note: the syllabi for aforesaid foreign languages have been 
published in the English part of this Gazette notification.
03-245
–––––––––––––––––––
AMENDMENTS 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
FOLLOWING amendments are made to the Gazette Notifications published in the Gazette dated 01.01.2016 and number 1948 for 
the recruitment of class III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service. 
General amendments in respect of service experience and Merit Base, Limited and Open examinations as follows :
 * Number of sittings of an applicant for the Merit, Limited and open examinations for the recruitment of SLEAS III 
under the previous service minute shall not be counted. 
 * Degree should be obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or from an institution 
accepted as the degree awarding institute by the university Grants Commission. 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'03'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.03.2016
533
 * All other qualifications should be completed by 01.02.2016.
 * Closing date for receiving applications is 11.04.2016. 
 * Applicants who have already sent their applications before 01.02.2016 are not required to send their applications 
again.
In addition to the above amendments, the following amendments are also made in respect of, 
The competitive examination for recruitment to Class III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service on the basis of service 
experience and Merti.
06. Age limit.– Not more than fifty eight (58) of age on 01.02.2016. 
Limited competitive examination for recruitment to Class III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service (2015) :
01. (a) The sentence above the table has been removed. 
02. (ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. (for those who are already in the government service).
06. Age limit.– Not more than fifty two years (52) of age on 01.02.2016. 
09. III(b) Except Technological subject (15) in the Column of the qualifications for recruitment in table, "OR" is inserted in 
between the qualifications for recruitment. 
09. III(b) In the table under 14 Asethetic subject, Western Music and Drama and Theatre and from 15 Technological Subject, 
Bio Systems Technology and qualifications thereof shall be removed. 
  In the model application for the limited competitive examination, the paragraph 12 and the table under the said 
paragraph shall be removed. 
Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to Class III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service 2015(2016) :
  The phrase 'from the following suitable officers' given in the first paragraph of the Gazette Notification shall be 
amended as 'from the following suitable applicants'.
01. (a) The phrase given above the table has been removed (with reference to the placement). 
02. (ii) This post is permanent. 
05. Age limit.– Not less than twenty two years (22) of age and not more than thirty two years (32) of age on 01.02.2016. 
In the model application for the open competitive examination, the paragraph 08 and the table under the said paragraph shall 
be removed. 
  W. M. BanduSena, 
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of Education. 
Ministry of Education, 
Isurupaya, 
Battaramulla, 
01st March, 2016. 
03–431
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.