

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2302$21 - 2022 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 19 jeks nodod - 2022'10'19
No. 2302/21 -  wedNesday,   OctOber  19,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 37817 - 21 (10/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
ThE  uRbAN  DEvELOPmENT  AuThORITY  LAw  No.  41  Of  1978
Order under Section 3
by virtue of the powers vested in me under section 3 of the Urban development authority Law No. 41, 1978, I Prasanna 
Ranathunga, the Minister of Urban Development and Housing being opinion that area specified in Column I of the Schedule 
hereto and having the meters and bounds specified in the corresponding entry in column II of that Schedule is suitable for 
development, do by this Order, declare such area to be an Urban development area for the purpose of that section.
 
Prasanna ranathunga (M.P),
 Minister of Urban development and Housing
Ministry of Urban development and Housing,
17th and 18th Floor,
"suhurupaya", subuthipura road,
battaramulla.
28th september, 2022.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'19
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.10.2022
2a
scHedULe 
mawanella urban Development Area
Column I Column II
North :
all the land bounded by metes and bounds in 
column II and the area comprising No. 15 – 
ambulugala. No. 15b  – attanagoda. No. 15e 
– dehimaduwa. No. 15G – Panagamuwa. No. 
18 – Lewke. No. 18a  – Kappagoda. No. 18b 
–  daswatta. No. 18c – dodanthale. No. 19a – 
weligalla (part). No. 19b – Mawanella (part). 
No. 19c – Uthuwankanda (part). No. 19d – 
Habbunkaduwa (part). No. 20 – weganthale. 
No. 20a  – Gondiwala (part). No. 20b - 
Koondeniya, No. 23 – Makehelwala. No. 23b 
– Keppetipola. No, 23a – Ihala Kotte. No. 23c 
– yatimahana.  No. 24 – randiwala. No. 24a – 
Karapane. No. 24b – dunugama, Maliyadda. 
No. 25 – Makadawara (part). No. 25a  – 
Ganethanna (part). No. 25b – Udamakadawara. 
No. 25c – Molligoda. No. 25d – Mawela 
(part). No. 26 – Kahawandala. No. 26a  – 
warkapane. No. 26b – Henatipana. No. 26c 
– Mahanthegama. No. 27 – aluthnuwara. No. 
27a – batawala. No. 27b – rukulagama. No. 
28 – Idampitiya. No. 28a – Kekirigoda. No. 29 
– Hingula (part). No. 29b – Owatta (part). No. 
29d – Muruthawala (part). 
commence from intersecting point of south western boundary of 
No. 20 – weganthale Grama Niladhari division and North-western 
boundary of No. 19c Uthuwankanda Grama Niladhari division 
which belongs to the Mawanella Pradeshiya sabha area. thence 
northwards along the western boundary of No. 20 – weganthale 
Grama Niladhari division and eastwards along the Northern boundary 
of said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting 
point of North-western boundary of No. 23c – yatimahana Grama 
Niladhari division, thence after towards North along the North-
western boundary and towards east along the Northern boundary of 
said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point 
of western boundary of No. 23b – Keppetipola Grama Niladhari 
division. thence towards North east along the North w est and 
Northern boundary of the said Grama Niladhari division until it 
meets the intersecting point of Northern boundary of No. 23a – Ihala 
Kotte Grama Niladhari division and then towards south-east along 
the North eastern and eastern boundary of the said Grama Niladhari 
division until it meets the intersecting point of Northern boundary 
of No. 23 Makehelwala Grama Niladhari division and then towards 
south along the eastern boundary of said Grama Niladhari division 
until it meets the intersecting point of eastern boundary of No. 24b 
dunugama Maliyadda Grama Niladhari division.
East :
No. 29e – beligammana (part). No. 30 – 
Kiringadeniya (part). No. 30b – Uyanwatta. No. 
31 – edanduwawa. No. 31 a – Koongamuwa 
(part). No. 31b – Nankoorugama. No. 34 – 
werake. No. 34a  – embilmeewala. No. 35 – 
Kumbalgama. No. 35a  – balawathgama. No. 
36 – eraminigammana. No. 36a – thambavita. 
No. 36b – Ginihappitiya east. No. 36c – 
Ginihappitiya west. No. 37 – Kooragala. No. 
37a – waduwawala. No. 37b – ambadeniya. 
No. 37c – weragoda. No. 38 – Palliporuwa. 
No. 38a  – Hemmathagama. No. 39 – 
dumbuluwawa. No. 39a  – wadiyathana. No. 
39b – Madulboowa. No. 39c – ambaruppa. 
No. 40a  – Kehelpannala west. No. 40 – 
Kehelpannala east. No. 40b – balathgamuwa 
and  No.  40c  –  ambalawa  Grama  Niladhari 
divisions that is addition to the land extent 
declared   as   Mawanella   urban  development
From the last mention point, toward south along the eastern boundary 
of the No. 24b dunugama Maliyadda Grama Niladhari division 
until it meets the intersecting point of North eastern boundary of 
No. 25b Udamakadawara Grama Niladhari division, thence towards 
east along the North eastern boundary of the said Grama Niladhari 
division until it meets the intersecting point of Northern boundary 
of No. 25a – Ganethanna Grama Niladhari division. thence towards 
south east along the eastern boundary of said Grama Niladhari 
division until it meets the center line of the colombo – Kandy 
road as well as intersecting point of Northern boundary of No. 26a  
warakapane Grama Niladhari division, thence toward south east 
along the eastern boundary of said Grama Niladhari division until 
it meets the intersecting point of North east boundary of No. 26 
Kahawandala Grama Niladhari division. thence after towards south 
along the eastern boundary of said Grama Niladhari division until it 
meets the intersecting point of North eastern boundary of No. 26c 
Mahanthegama Grama Niladhari division. thence towards south 
and south west along the eastern boundary of said Grama Niladhari 
division.  south  eastern  boundary  of  No. 26b Henatipana  Grama 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'19
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.10.2022
3a
Column I Column II
authority area in Mawanella urban area at 
Kegalle district according to the Gazette 
Notifications of democratic socialist republic 
of sri Lanka.
Niladhari division and eastern boundary of No. 34 werake Grama 
Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of eastern 
boundary of No. 34a  – embilmeewala Grama Niladhari division. 
thence after towards south east along the eastern boundary of the 
said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of 
North boundary of No. 40c ambalawa Grama Niladhari division.
South :
by the Gazette No. 164/2 on 27th October 1981 
and Gazette No. 1070 on 5th March 1999 which 
comprising No. 19 – rankothdiwala. No. 29a  
– Mahawatta. No. 29c – Hingul Oya. No. 30a 
– Mawana. No. 19a – weligalla (part). No. 19b  
– Mawanella (part). No. 19c – Uthuwankanda 
(part). No. 19d – Habbunkaduwa (part). No. 
20a – Gondiwala (part). No. 25a – Ganethenna 
(part). No. 25 – Makadawara (part). No. 25d 
– Mawela (part) No. 29 – Hingula (part). No. 
29b – Owatta (part). No. 29d – Muruthawala 
(part). No. 29e – beligammana (part). No. 
31a – Koongamuwa (part) and No. 30 – 
Kiringadeniya (part).
From the last mention point. towards south east along the North 
east and eastern boundary of No. 40c ambalawa Grama Niladhari 
division and towards south west and south along the southern 
boundary of said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the 
intersecting point of south east boundary of No. 40 Kehelpannala 
east Grama Niladhari division. thence towards the intersecting 
point of south east boundary of No. 40 a Kehelpannala west Grama 
Niladhari division. thence along south east and southern boundary 
of said Grama Niladhari division toward the intersecting point of 
southern boundary of No. 38a  Hemmathagama Grama Niladhari 
division and towards North west along the southern and western 
boundary of the said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the 
intersecting point of southern boundary of No. 38 Palliporuwa 
Grama Nildhari division. thence after towards west and North along 
the southern and south west boundary of said Grama Niladhari 
division until it meets the intersecting point of southern boundary of 
No. 37a waduwawala Grama Niladhari division.
west :
From the last mention point. towards N orth west along the s outh 
west boundary of No. 37a waduwawala Grama Niladhari division 
until it meets the intersecting point of s outhern boundary of No. 37 
Kooragala Grama Niladhari division. thence towards N orth along 
the southern and s outh west boundary of said Grama Niladhari 
division until it meets the intersecting point of s outhern boundary 
of No. 37b ambadeniya Grama Niladhari division. thence along the 
southern boundary of said Grama Niladhari division until it meets 
the intersecting point of s outhern boundary of No. 37c weragoda 
Grama Niladhari division and thence towards North east along 
the southern, western and Northern boundary of the said Grama 
Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of N orthern 
boundary of No. 37b ambadeniya Grama Niladhari division. 
thence towards North east along the Northern boundary of said 
Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of 
North west boundary of No. 35a, balawathgama Grama Niladhari 
division. thence towards N orth east along the  North western 
boundary of said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the 
intersecting point of s outh west boundary of No. 35 Kumbalgama 
Grama Niladhari division. thence towards N orth along the western 
boundary of the said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the 
intersecting point of s outh west boundary of No. 27b rukulagama 
Grama  Niladhari division.  thence  towards  N orth west  along  
the  south  west  and  western  boundary  of  said Grama Niladhari

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'10'19
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.10.2022
4a
Column I Column II
division until it meets the intersecting point of southern boundary 
of No. 28a Kekirigoda Grama Niladhari division. thence towards 
North west along the southern and western boundary of said 
Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of 
southern boundary of No. 31b Nankoorugama Grama Niladhari 
division. thence towards west along the southern boundary of said 
Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of 
south eastern boundary of No. 18a  Kappagoda Grama Niladhari 
division. thence along the south east and southern boundary of 
said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of 
eastern boundary of No. 18b daswatta Grama Niladhari division. 
thence towards south along the south east boundary of said Grama 
Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of North 
eastern boundary of No. 18 Lewke Grama Niladhari division. thence 
towards North along the eastern, southern and western boundary of 
said Grama Niladhari division. until it meets the intersecting point 
of south western boundary of No. 18b daswatta Grama Niladhari 
division thence towards North west along the western boundary of 
said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point 
of southern boundary of No. 15e dehimaduwa Grama Niladhari 
division. thence after towards west along the southern boundary of 
said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of 
southern boundary of No. 15 ambulugala Grama Niladhari division 
and thence towards west along the southern boundary of said Grama 
Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of south east 
boundary of No. 15G Panagamuwa Grama Niladhari division. thence 
towards south west along the southern boundary of said Grama 
Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of southern 
boundary of No. 15b attanagoda Grama Niladhari division. thence 
towards east along the southern western and Northern boundary of 
said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point 
of North western boundary of  No.15 ambulugala Grama Niladhari 
division. thence towards east along the Northern boundary of said 
Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of 
North western boundary of No. 15e dehimaduwa Grama Niladhari 
division. thence towards North along the North western boundary of 
said Grama Niladhari division until it meets the intersecting point of 
south western boundary of No. 19c Uthuwankanda Grama Niladhari 
division and thence towards North along the western boundary of 
said Grama Niladhari division until reached the starting point in the 
Northern boudnary.
eOG 10 – 0172
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.