

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
WAREHOUSE PROJECT (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 240]
————————
Presented by Hon. Victor Antony, M.P. for Puttalm District
on 21st May, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on May 13, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
to incorporate the Warehouse Project
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2-PL 007272 —850 (05/2013)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Warehouse Project (Incorporation)
Preamble.
5
10
15
20
2—PL 007272—850 (05/2013)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE WAREHOUSE PROJECT
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Warehouse Project” has heretofore been formed in Colombo
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting
the objects and matters connected with the said Association
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Warehouse Project  has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Warehouse Project
(Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Warehouse Project”  or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the " Warehouse Project" (hereinafter referred to
as “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue, and be
sued in all Courts, with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and the alter  same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide social services to the less privileged
persons in all parts of the country by helping them
to meet their basic needs, train and develop
individual skills, help find employment and
improve their standard of living;
Incorporation
of the
Warehouse
Project.
Short title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Warehouse Project (Incorporation)2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to provide assistance to low income families in urban
and rural communities to meet thir basic needs and
uplift living standards;
(c) to use creative arts as a platform, to help children
and youth of all walks of life, and different cultural
and religious backgrounds, to meet and interact
with each to foster unity;
(d) to promote social, sprirtual and cultural activities
to develop and foster high moral, ethical and social
values in society;
(e) to provide opportunities for youth to learn new skills
and receive on the job training and assist them to
set up small scale businesse within their
communities;
(f) to provide an opportunity for people to become
aware of needs within their communities, and
promote a culture of helping each other and sharing
resources or development and growth of their own
communities;
(g) to organize free health camps, clinics, check-ups,
and other community service camps and distribute
free medicines to the needy, with the help of
volunteer medical professionals, to improve the
health and well being of citizens;
(h) to provide accounting, financial, legal and other
professional support and advise to any community
in Sri Lanka, to help them manage their lives in a
better way;
(i) to establish island-wide information technology
centres for the advancement of scientific studies
and development of the country;
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Warehouse Project (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(j) to provide assistance to governmental and non
governmental organizations for generating
employment amongst youth;
(k) to obtain and provide grants and other forms of
assistance for the commencement and advancement
of the above mentioned projects;
(l) to co-ordinate with like minded persons and
organizations both local and foreign, and to organize
meetings, seminars, conferences etc.for the
advancement of the above mentioned projects;
(m) to promote, arrange and organize exhibitions,
lectures, seminars, discussions, workshops and other
activities with a view to accomplishing the
objectives of the Warehouse Project and to print,
publish and distribute such brochures, journals,
bulletins and newspapers; and
(n) to do all such other acts as may be necessary for the
carrying out of all or any of the aforesaid objectives.
4. Subject to the other provisions of this Act and any
other written law the Corporation shall have the power to
do, perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary of desirable for the promotion
of furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts to borrow or raise money with or without security
to receive or collect grants, donations, to invest its funds, to
erect any building or structures on any land held by the
Corporation and to engage, employ, dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting
Management
of the  affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
30
35

<!-- page 5 -->

Warehouse Project (Incorporation)4
5
10
15
20
25
of a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Managing Director, Secretary,
Treasurer and a maximum of seven other Directors and
elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of  the Association
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act. Such Board shall hold office
until a Board of Directors is elected in accordance with the
rules of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time, at any general meeting and  by a majority of  votes
of not less than two-thirds of the members present to make
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters and
any other matter in relation to the management of the affairs
of the  Corporation and accomplishment of its objects:—
(a) the classification of members and mebership fees,
their admission, withdrawal, or expulsion from
membership;
(b) the election of the members to the Board of Directors
and their powers and duties;
(c) the election of office bearers, their term of office,
resignation from vacation of or removal from office
and their powers and duties;
(d) the procedure to be followed in the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Council, the quorum
therefore and the conduct of business thereat;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Coporation, including funds.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added to, amended or resinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Warehouse Project (Incorporation)
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequests, donations, subscription, testamentary
dispositions, fees, grants for donations or contributions in
cash or kind from local or foreign institutes and individuals,
members and non-members.
(2) All monies received shall be deposited in the name
of the Corporation in one or more banks and be invested in
any suitable manner as the Board shall determine.
(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise, perfomances and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of the
Funds of the Corporation.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of Commencement of this
Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due,  subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Association on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
9. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount due from such member as membership
fees.
10. The Corporations shall be able and capable in law
to acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue to any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition, trust or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
Debts due by
and payable
to the Fund.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

Warehouse Project (Incorporation)6
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same,
and in the case of a trust, the Corporation shall deal with it in
the manner provided for by the trust.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be fixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in for
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons, except such as mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15

<!-- page 8 -->

7Warehouse Project (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .