

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1454
    Page
Post - Vacant … … …  1446
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"122 – 2019 uehs ui 03 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'05'03
No. 2,122 –  FRiday ,  may 03, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th may, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th may, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1443-B 81519- 5,403 (05/2019)
N. B.–   Part ii of the Gazette No. 2,121 of 26.04.2019 was not published.  
Note.– Revival of underperforming Enterprises or Underutilized assets (Repeal) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of april 26, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1444
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1445
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1446
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
mataLE  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and marriages/additional Registrar of marriages in 
the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
03rd June, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 05th april, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  Application are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
matale Rattota Post of Birth and death Registrar of Udasiya Pattu 
North division and Post of marriage Registrar of 
matale South (Kandyan/General) division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, matale.
05–58

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1447
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
RathNaPURa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and marriages/additional Registrar of marriages in 
the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
07th of June, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 12th april, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post and Division  for which  Application are called Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Ratnapura Ratnapura Post of Registrar of marriages (Kandyan/General) in 
Nawadun Koralaya division and Births and deaths 
of Bambarabotuwa division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Ratnapura.
Ratnapura Ratnapura Post of Registrar of marriages (Kandyan/General) in 
Kuruwita Koralaya division and Births and deaths 
of Gileemale South division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Ratnapura.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1448
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post and Division  for which  Application are called Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Ratnapura Kolonna Post of Registrar of additional marriages (Kandyan/
General) in Kolonna Koralaya division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Ratnapura.
Ratnapura Ratnapura Post of Registrar of additional marriages (Kandyan/
General) in Kuruwita Koralaya (Ratnapura town) 
division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Ratnapura.
Ratnapura Ratnapura Post of Registrar of marriages (Kandyan/General) in 
Kuruwita Koralaya division and Births and deaths 
of Gileemale North division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Ratnapura.
Ratnapura imbulpe Post of Registrar of marriages (Kandyan/General) in 
Kadawatha and mada Koralaya division and Births 
and deaths of maddegama division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Ratnapura.
05–60
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim of marriages
 
RathNaPURa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out 
in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the muslim marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 45 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of muslim marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1449
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
07th June, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 12th april, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Ratnapura Balangoda Post of Registrar of muslim marriages of 
Balangoda division
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, Ratnapura.
Ratnapura ahaliyagoda Post of Registrar of muslim marriages of 
Kandagamuwa division
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, Ratnapura.
05–59
–––––––––––––––––––––
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA
Post of Auto Electrician
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for the post of “auto Electr ician” on the Staff of the 
Secretary-General of Parliament. 
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri 
Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte" on or before may 17 
2019. the “Post of auto Electrician” should be indicated on 
the top left-hand corner of the envelope. (this information is 
also available on the website: www.parliament.lk)
1. Salary Scale.– according to the Schedule i of the 
management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
Monthly salary scale specified for this post is Rs. 30,350 –    
11 x 330 / 10 x 380 – Rs. 37,780/-  the selected candidates 
will be placed initially at the monthly salary step of                                                                                                  
Rs. 27,214/= according to the schedule ii of the circular 
mentioned above. (the minimum initial gross monthly 
remuneration together with all the allowances will be 
approximately Rs. 57,000.00)
2. Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) 
Examination in six subjects with 2 credit passes for Sinhala / 
tamil, mathematics/ arithmetic and simple pass for English 
at not more than two sittings.
 
3. Professional Qualifications.– Should have successfully 
completed a Certificate level course equivalent to NVQ 
Level 4 or above in the field of Auto electrical work from 
a Government institution or from a private institution 
recognized by the Government.
or
Full time course in the field of Auto Electrical Work 
conducted by the ceylon – German technical training 
institute.
4. experience.– Not less than 5 years of experience at a 
Government or recognized institution in the field of Auto 
Electrical work. 
  
5.  Age Limit.– Should be not less than 25 years and not 
more than 45 years of age by the closing date for applications.
6.  Method of Recruitment .– through a written test and 
an interview.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1450
7.  Terms and Conditions of Service :
 (i) this post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined according 
to policy decisions taken by the Government in 
future.  Appointment will be made subject to a 
three-year (3) probation period. if a person who 
has been confirmed in a permanent, pensionable 
post in the Public/ Provincial Public service is 
selected, he / she will be appointed subject to an 
acting period of one year.
 (ii) Selected candidates will be subject to the Financial 
and departmental Regulations applicable to the 
staff of the Secretary - General of Parliament.
 (iii)  Selected candidates should contribute to the 
Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and orphans’ 
Pension Fund from his/her salary with a 
percentage specified by the Government.
 (iv) Selected candidates will be subject to a medical 
examination.
 (v) a Security clearance Report with respect to the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.
      8. applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certificates (not originals) to their applications. Originals of 
the certificates should be produced, when called upon to do 
so :
(a) Birth Certificate,
(b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications,
(c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications,
(d) Certificates of Experience.
 9. applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public 
Service or on the staff of the Secretary – General of the 
Parliament should send their applications through relevant 
heads of departments / institutions.
10. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
11. applications received after the closing date or 
sent without copies of the relevant certificates or not 
sent through heads of departments / institutions will be 
rejected. Applications sent through heads of departments 
/institutions but received after the closing date, and 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
will also be rejected. 
 W. B. d. 
daSaNayake,
      Secretary - General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka,
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte,
may 03rd, 2019.
PaRLiamENt oF SRi LaNKa
SpeCimeN appliCatioN Form
poSt oF  auto  eleCtriCiaN
01.  (a)  Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 (b)  Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :                     
–––––––––.
  (c) Full Name  (in block capitals) :- (mr/mrs /miss) 
:––––––––––.
 
02.  N. i. c. :-   
03.  (a)  Private address :––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-  
  (b)  Official Address  :––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-    
  (c)  Please indicate the address the admission to be 
posted :
  Private      Official 
04. (a)  date of Birth:-  
  y ear :––––––––, month :––––––––,  date :–––––––, 
  (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached) 
  (b)  age as at the closing date of applications:-  
  y ears :–––––––, months :–––––––,  days :–––––––, 
05.  civil Status :-  (married/ Unmarried) :––––––––––.
06.  Gender :-  (male/ Female) :––––––––––.
07.  State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :-  (yes/No)
      :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1451
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
will also be rejected. 
 W. B. d. daSaNayake,
      Secretary - General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka,
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte,
may 03rd, 2019.
PaRLiamENt oF SRi LaNKa
S
peCimeN appliCatioN Form
poSt oF  auto  eleCtriCiaN
01.  (a)  Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 (b)  Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :                     
–––––––––.
  (c) Full Name  (in block capitals) :- (mr/mrs /miss) 
:––––––––––.
 
02.  N. i. c. :-   
03.  (a)  Private address :––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-  
  (b)  Official Address  :––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-    
  (c)  Please indicate the address the admission to be 
posted :
  Private      Official 
04. (a)  date of Birth:-  
  y ear :––––––––, month :––––––––,  date :–––––––, 
  (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached) 
  (b)  age as at the closing date of applications:-  
  y ears :–––––––, months :–––––––,  days :–––––––, 
05.  civil Status :-  (married/ Unmarried) :––––––––––.
06.  Gender :-  (male/ Female) :––––––––––.
07.  State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :-  (yes/No)
      :––––––––––.
08. Education Qualifications :- (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached)
examination Subjects Pass Year
G. c. E
(o/L)
Sinhala/ tamil
mathermatics
English
9. Professional Qualifications :- (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :––––––––––.
10. Experience :- (Copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––––.
11.  details of the Present Employment :
(a) Name and address of the institution :––––––––––.
(b) Date of first Appointment :––––––––––.
(c) Present Post :––––––––––.
(d) monthly basic Salary :––––––––––.
(e) allowances :––––––––––.
(f) Gross Salary :––––––––––.
12. have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of Law? :––––––––––.
 if yes, give details :––––––––––.
13. have you served under the Government before? :                   
––––––––––. 
 if yes, give details :––––––––––.
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.                                                         
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(only for applicants serving in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of mr. / mrs./miss 
........................... holding the post of ..................................
..................... in this institution. i certify that his/her work 
and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has not been 
subjected to any disciplinary action or there is no intention 
to make such inquiry. he/she can be released/cannot be 
released from the service if selected for this post.   
           
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of head of department/institution. 
 (Official Stamp) 
date :––––––––––.
05–193
–––––––––––––––––––
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA
Parliamentary Interpreter 
(English/ Tamil/ English)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for the post of Parliamentary interpreter (English/t amil/
English) on the staff of the Secretary-General of Parliament
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover along 
with the copies of certificates of Educational/Professional, 
and Service Experience,  to reach the “Secretary-General of 
Parliament, Parliament of Sri Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura 
Kotte" on or before may 17, 2019 indicating the post applied for, 
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. (this information is 
found on the website: www.parliament.lk)
1. Salary Scale.– according to the Schedule i of the 
management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
the monthly salary scale for this post is Rs. 47, 340 –                                                                                                                     
3 x 755/ 13 x 1,030 – Rs. 62,995. the selected candidates will 
be placed initially at the monthly salary step of Rs. 37,558/= 
according to the Schedule ii of the circular mentioned 
above from the date of appointment. (the minimum initial 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1452
monthly remuneration on this salary scale,  together with all 
the allowances will be approximately Rs.75,000). 
2. Age Limit.– Not less than 22 years and not more than 
45 years of age as at the closing date for applications. (the 
upper age limit shall not apply to those who are already in 
Public/ Provincial Public Service)
3. Educational Qualifications & Experience.– candidates 
who possess any of the educational qualification and 
experience mentioned under (a), (b) and (c) below can apply 
for the above post.
 (a) Should possess a degree from a recognized 
University or form a U.G.c recognized degree 
offering institute in Tamil or English as a subject 
and a credit pass at G.c.E o/L examination for the 
language which has not been offered for the degree. 
OR
 (b) Should possess credit passes for tamil and English 
at G.c.E (ordinary Level) Examination and should 
have passed 04 subjects in one sitting at G.C.E 
(advanced Level) Examination (old Syllabus) 
OR 03 subjects in one sitting at G.C.E (Advanced 
Level) Examination (New Syllabus) 
With
  not less than two years of experience in a field of 
teaching or interpretation or translation or mass 
media in tamil or English language 
 OR
 (c) Should have completed permanent continuous 
service for not less than 5 years in Public/ Provincial 
Public Service as an interpreter or translator in 
English/ tamil.
 
4. Method of Recruitment.–  Recruitment will be made 
on the results of the tests conducted on simultaneous 
interpretation and translation and an interview.  
Note: Candidates possessing qualifications under 
3 (a), (b) or (c) above should have the ability to 
interpret from tamil to English and from English 
to tamil simultaneously Service Experience in 
simultaneous interpretation is not compulsory.
5. Terms & Conditions of Services :
 (i) this post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined 
according to the policy decisions taken by 
the Government in future.  appointment will 
be made subject to a three-year (3) probation 
period. If a person who has been confirmed in 
permanent, pensionable post is selected, he / she 
will be appointed subject to an acting period of 
one year.
 (ii) Selected candidates will be subject to Financial 
and departmental Regulations applicable to the 
staff of the Secretary-General of Parliament.
 (iii) Selected candidates should contribute to 
Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and orphans’ 
Pension Fund from his / her salary with a 
percentage specified by the Government. They 
will be subjected to a medical examination. 
 (iv) a Security clearance Report in respect of the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.  
6. applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certificates (not originals) to their applications and original 
certificates should be produced, only when called upon to 
do so.  
(a) Birth Certificate.
(b) Certificates confirming Educational qualifications.
(c) Certificates confirming professional qualifications.
(d) Certificates confirming experience.
7. applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public 
Service should send their applications through relevant 
heads of departments / institutions.
8. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification for 
this post.
9. any information in the application found to be 
incorrect disclosed before selection will render the applicant 
liable for disqualification, and to dismissal, if discovered 
after appointment.
10. applications received after the closing date or sent 
without copies of the above mentioned certificates or not 
sent through heads of departments / institutions will be 
rejected. Applications sent through Heads of Departments 
/institutions but received after the closing date, and 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1453
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form will also be rejected. 
 W. B. d. daSaNayake,
      Secretary,
 General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka,
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte,
may 03rd, 2019.
PaRLiamENt oF SRi LaNKa
SpeCimeN appliCatioN Form
poSt oF  parliameNtary iNterpreter 
(eNgliSh/ tamil/ eNgliSh)
01.  (a)  Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 (b)  Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :                     
–––––––––.
  (c) Full Name  (in block capitals) :- (mr/mrs /miss) 
:––––––––––.
 
02.  N. i. c. :-   
03.  (a)  Private address :––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-  
  (b)  Official Address  :––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-    
  (c)  Please indicate the address the admission to be 
posted :
  Private      Official 
04. (a)  date of Birth:-  
  y ear :––––––––, month :––––––––,  date :–––––––, 
  (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached) 
  (b)  age as at the closing date of applications:-  
  y ears :–––––––, months :–––––––,  days :–––––––.
05.  civil Status :-  (married/ Unmarried) :––––––––––.
06.  Gender :-  (male/ Female) :––––––––––.
07.  State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :-  (yes/No)
      :––––––––––.
08.  Educational Qualifications and Experience: (Copies of 
the certificates should be attached)
  For those who are applying under 3 (a) in the notice
Details of the Degree
Degree Subjects University Year
G. C. E (O/L)
Subject Pass Year
English/ Tamil
For those who are applying under 3 (b) in the notice 
G. C. E. (A/L)
Subject Pass Year
G. C. E (O/L)
Subject Pass Year
tamil
English
Experience (Copies of the certificates should be 
attached)
Institution Post Service Period
For those who are applying under 3 (c) in the notice 
Experience (Copies of the certificates should be 
attached)
Institution Post Service Period
09. Professional Qualifications ( copies of the certificates 
should be attached ) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1454
10. details of Present E mployment:
 (a) Name and address of the institution :–––––––––.
 (b) Present Post  :–––––––––.
 (c) date of First appointment :–––––––––.
 (d)  monthly basic Salary :–––––––––.
 (e) allowance :–––––––––.
 (f) Gross Salary :–––––––––.
11.  have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of Law?  :–––––––––.                                                                                             
 if yes, give details :–––––––––.
12. have you served under the Government before? ...........
if yes, give details :–––––––––.
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––.            
                                          
           Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(only for applicants serving in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of mr / mrs 
/miss ............................... holding the post of ...................
.................................... in this institution. i certify that his/
her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has 
not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is 
no intention to make such inquiry. he/she can be released/
cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.   
                        –––––––––––––––––,                           
 Signature of head of department/institution.
 (Official Stamp) 
date  :–––––––––.  
05–192
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
CEyLON - GERmAN  TEChNICAL  TRAINING 
INSTITuTE - mORATuWA 
(mINISTRy Of INDuSTRy AND COmmERCE, 
RESETTLEmENT Of PROTRACTED 
DISPLACED PERSONS, CO-OPERATIvE 
DEvELOPmENT AND vOCATIONAL 
TRAINING AND SkILLS DEvELOPmENT)
Admission for the full Time Courses under the 
National Apprenticeship Scheme - 2019
aPPLicatioNS are invited from male and Female 
candidates who hold following minimum Qualifications for 
the admission of year 2019. 
01.   (a)   Age.– Between 16 - 22 years as at 31.03.2019.
 (b)  education . –  P a s s e d  i n  0 6  s u b j e c t s  a t  t h e                           
G. c. E. (o/L) Examination including Sinhala/
tamil language (medium of instruction) and 
mathematics in one sitting. 
  Or
  Passed in 06 subjects at the London (O/L) 
Examination including English language and 
mathematics in one sitting. 
Applicants who have special skills.– candidates who 
have placed among first three places in a Provincial level 
competition or obtain a certificate of merit or above by a 
National competition of Sri Lanka inventors commission 
in Electrical/Electronic/me chanical fields and candidates 
who have completed the above Section (b) qualifications 
with not less than two attempts are also qualified to sit for 
the examination. 
Note.– candidates following full time courses at 
National apprentice and industrial training 
authority (Naita) and bonded for period of 03 
years or more are not eligible to apply for these 
full time courses. 
02. Course Medium.– all courses are conducted in 
Sinhala medium. only automobile course will conduct in 
tamil medium too. opportunity will be provided to follow 
other courses to the tamil medium students, who have 
ability in Sinhala language. London G. c. E. ordinary Level 
qualification holders will be allowed to follow courses in 
Sinhala/tamil medium. 
03. entrance examination.– applicants who possess the 
requisite minimum qualifications will be allowed to sit for 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1455
the admission test provided examination fees referred to in 
column 4 below have been paid. 
 (a)  Medium.– Sinhala/t amil. 
 (b)  examination Centers.– a written examination 
for admission will be conducted at the centers in 
colombo, Kandy, Galle, Badulla, anuradhapura and 
Vavuniya as indicated in the application. 
  Kindly note that if an adequate Number of candidates 
are not available at particular centers then the 
management reserve the right to change the centers 
by accommodating such applications according to 
the preference of the candidate.
examination Subjects .– the examination will consist 
of two question papers based on mathematics, General 
knowledge, intelligence test, technical knowledge, English 
knowledge and technical drawing. 
04. examination Fees.– applicants should pay Rupees 
Five hundred only (Rs. 500/-) as examination fees. Paying 
voucher of the Bank should be attached to the application. 
the application should be forwarded together with the 
paying voucher of the Bank. 
Payment.– the payment can be made to any Bank of 
ceylon Branch to the accountant, ceylon German technical 
training institute which credit to account Number 681490 
maintained at moratuwa Branch. Paying vouchers that 
defaced or erased will not be accepted. application which 
does not contain a credit voucher to the value will be rejected. 
Examination fees will not be refunded to candidates those 
who are not appearing for the examination or on rejection of 
their applications for any other reason. 
05. Primary Selection.– Primary selection of candidates 
for admission will be merit based on the written examination 
and those who obtain the required highest marks will be 
called for interview to the final selection. Cutoff marks 
for less privileged provinces would be decided by the 
management of cGtti. (Less privileged provinces are 
decided according to Sri Lanka Examination department). 
06. Final Selection.– those who obtained highest marks 
from aptitude test and interview would be considered for 
final selection. 40% marks are allocated for aptitude test 
and 60% for the interview. Extra Curricular activities are 
specially considered. 
the selected candidates will have to go through a medical 
examination and those who fail the medical test will be 
discontinued. 
07. Training Courses :
Serial 
No.
Course Duration
01 automobile 04 years
02 millwright/Fitter 04 years
03 Power Electrical 03 1/2 years
04 air-conditioning and Refrigeration 03 1/2 years
05 tool machinery 03 1/2 years
06 mechatronic technology (industrial) 03 1/2 years
07 auto air conditioning 03 years
08 auto Electrical 03 years
09 diesel mechanic 03 years
10 Welding 03 years
11 motor Vehicle Body Repairer and 
Painter
03 years
Selected candidates will be allowed to follow the above 
mentioned courses of training dependin g on the aptitude 
they show in the trade selection test conducted after first 
year of basic training. 
08. Bond to be signed.– all selected candidates are 
required to enter in to a bond to undergo full time training at 
cGtti for periods ranging from 04, 03 1/2, 03 years in their 
allocated trades and enter in to agreement with the National 
apprentice and industrial training authority (Naita) as 
per their requirements. 
09. Applications.– the application should be prepared 
as per the specimen form given below (a4 size) and photo 
copies of the following certificates should also be attached 
with the application :
 (a) Birth Certificate ;
 (b) Educational Certificates ;
 (c) applicants who apply under special skills should 
forward the certificate of Provincial/National 
level competition issued by Sri Lanka inventors 
commission. 
the envelope in which application is enclosed should 
be marked, "Recruitment of apprentice - 2019" on the top                
left-hand corner. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1456
Obtaining Application Form :
 *  By down-loading via the institute's web site (www.cgtti.lk)
 *  By visiting to the institute.
 *  By sending a self address envelope with stamp to the institute.
10.  Closing date of applications. – applications should be sent to the manager - administration and human 
Resources ceylon German technical training institute, No. 582, Galle Road, mount Lavinia, by Registered Post on or 
before 21st June, 2019. 
11. Admission Cards.– Admission cards for the examination will be sent to all qualified candidates on around 10th 
august, 2019. if any candidate does not receive the admission card, contact over the telephone number given below within 
14 days from the date. 
 ajith abeyguNawardhaNa,
 manager, 
 administration and human Resources. 
ceylon German technical training institute, 
No. 582, Galle Road, 
mount Lavinia (angulana Junction), 
telephone No. : 0112605625.
aPPLicatioN FoR admiSSioN to FULL-timE coURSES - 2019
(UNdER thE NatioNaL aPPRENticEShiP – SchEmE)
CeyloN germaN teChNiCal traiNiNg iNStitute - moratuwa
For Office Q DQ Index Interview Training
use only   No. No. No.
* Use Block Capitals when filling the form in English.
* Use (P) to complete 03 (d) and 06 (a, b).
01.  (a) Full Name :
   (Sinhala)      
  (b) Full Name :
   (English) 
  (c)  Name with initials : 
   (English)
02.  (a) Postal address :
   (Sinhala)
  (b) Postal address :
   (English)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1457
  (c) district : (d) divisional  (e) Province :
      Secretariat :
  (f) E-mail address : (g) Phone Number : mobile
      Residence
03.  (a) date of Birth :  (b) age as at 31.03.2019 :   
   y ear :                         month :              date :     years      months  days
  (c) Nic No. :  (d) Sex : (*)    Female             male
04. Educational Qualifications  G. C. E. (O/L) :    Second sitting (only for special skills applicants) :
  one sitting :
  index No.  year index No.  year
  Subject Grade  Subject Grade 
 
  
05. Specify the field and year of issue of the certificate (Provincial/National) issued by the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission, 
if the candidate is applying under the special skills category  : 
  y ear :             Field :
06. (a) medium at which the candidate wishes to sit the admission test (*) :  Sinhala tamil
 (b) center at which the candidate wishes to sit the admission test (*) :
  colombo Kandy Galle Badulla  anuradhapura  Vavuniya
07. (a) Bank where the Examination fees were paid to    (b) date :
08. i, hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate, if any particulars contained here are 
found to be false or incorrect, liable for disqualification/dismissal before or after selection. 
 
 Signature.          date

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1458
For Office use only
 (a) attached a copy of the bank Receipt yes No
 (b) Attached copies of Educational Certificates Yes No
 (c) Attached a copy of the Birth Certificate Yes No
 (d) Attached certificate of special skills mentioned Yes No Not Relevant
  under (05)
 (e) age limit - 16 oK 22+
 (f) Qualified to sit the Admission test  Yes No
 (g) checked by
05–56
––––––––––––––––––
ADmISSION Of APPRENTICES TO SRI 
LANkA GERmAN RAILWAy TEChNICAL 
TRAINING CENTRE – RATmALANA - 2019
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens 
(male/female) possessing minimum qualifications stipulated 
in paragraph 02 herein for admission of apprentices to the 
Sri Lanka - German Railway technical training centre for 
- 2019.
02. Minimum qualifications :
 (a) Age.– Should be between 16-25 years of age as 
at 31.05.2019.
 (b) Educational Qualifications.– Passing 06 subjects 
including Sinhala/t amil/English language, 
mathematics, Science and any other four 
subjects with credit passes at the G. C. E. 
ordinary Level Examination in one sitting. 
03. Training Courses.– the apprentices selected for 
training will be given the opportunity to follow the course 
subject to the following professions and the period relevant 
to those professions. the examination will be conducted 
only in Sinhala medium. 25 apprentices for each of the 
following course will be selected. 
 (i) diesel Engine mechanic 2 1/2 years 
    (N. V . Q. Level 04)
 (ii) Welder 03 years 
    (N. V . Q. Level 04)
 (iii) Electrician (power) 03 1/2 years 
    (N. V . Q. Level 04)
 (iv) mechanic (ordinary) 03 1/2 years 
    (N. V . Q. Level 04)
04. Applications.– applicants should indicate their 
particulars correctly in the application forms prepared in 
a 297mm x 210mm (a4 size) typing sheet. incomplete 
applications will be rejected.
05. Selection for the course : 
 1. candidates are selected by written and practical 
tests and only the candidates who have fulfilled 
the minimum qualifications required and paid 
the examination fee, cited in the paragraph 07 
will be called for the written test. 
 2. the written test will be based on mathematics, 
Basic technical Knowledge and General 
Knoweldge. 
  the candidates who score the highest aggregate 
marks at the written test will be summoned for 
the practical test/interview under each course. 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1459
 3. candidates who score the highest marks at the 
written and Practical tests will be selected for 
each course.
06. Medium of examination. – medium of examination 
will be Sinhala, tamil and English. 
07. examination Fee.– it will be recovered an Examination 
Fee of non-refundable Rs. 500. this amount can be paid to 
any branch of People's Bank to be credited to the account 
Number 176-1001-2-9027313 of the General manager in 
Railways in the People's Bank - mid city Branch. 
the receipt obtained by payment to any branch of 
People's Bank should be attached to the application form. 
(it will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt with 
the candidate) Please note that the examination fee will 
not be refunded due to inability to sit for the admission 
examination or any other circumstance.
08. examination Centres.– a written test for the 
candidates who have satisfied all the requirements, will be 
held only in a centre in colombo.
09. Signing a bond.– all applicants selected for training 
in the institution should enter into a bond with the National 
Apprentices and Technical Training Authority to confirm 
that they follow the training course successfully during the 
prescribed period relevant to the profession. 
10. the department is not liable to offer employments to 
the apprentices after completion of the training. 
11. the application forms prepared according to 
the specimen form given below should be sent to the 
"deputy General manager (t raining and human Resource 
development), Sri Lanka - German Railway technical 
training centre, Kaldemulla Road, Rathmalana" by 
registered post. it should be indicated as "S. L. G. R. t. t. 
c/2019" on the top left hand corner of the envelope. 
12. Closing date of applications.– applications will be 
entertained upto 31.05.2019 and the applications received 
delay will be rejected. 
 m. J. d. 
FerNaNdo, 
 General manager, 
 Sri Lanka Railways. 
General Manager's Office, 
Sri Lanka Railways, colombo 10,
12th april, 2019.
Specimen form of Application 
REcRUitmENt oF aPPRENticES to SRi LaNKa 
- GERmaN RaiLWay tEchNicaL tRaiNiNG 
cENtRE - 2019
 For office use only 
01. Full name (in Sinhala and English) :–––––––––––.
02. address :  (Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
   (English) :–––––––––––.
03. district :–––––––––––.
04. date of Birth :–––––––––––.
05. Sex : male/Female :–––––––––––.
06. telephone Number :–––––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications : G. C. E. (O/L) :
 index No. :–––––––––––.
  Subjects Grade 
 1. ................................ ......................
 2. ................................ ......................
 3. ................................ ......................
 4. ................................ ......................
 5. ................................ ......................
 6. ................................ ......................
 7. ................................ ......................
 8. ................................ ......................
 9. ................................ ......................
 10. ................................ ......................
08. medium preferred by the candidate to sit for the exam 
:–––––––––––.
09. indicate two courses you wish to follow in terms of the 
notification sequently :
 1. .............................  2. ..........................
10. the receipt No. ......................... obtained by payment of 
Rs. 500 to the People's Bank ......................... is attached.
11.  i certify that the fore giving particulars furnished in this 
application are true and accurate. Further, i am aware 
that if any particulars contained here are found to be 
false or incorrect. I am liable to be disqualified before 
the selection and to the dismissed after appointment. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
05–109

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1460
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'03
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.05.2019
1461
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
thE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2019
 mAy  03.05.2019 Friday — 18.04.2019 thursday 12 noon
  10.05.2019 Friday –– 26.04.2019 Friday 12 noon
  17.05.2019 Friday –– 03.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
  24.05.2019 Friday –– 10.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
  31.05.2019 Friday –– 17.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
 JuNE 07.06.2019 Friday — 24.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
  14.06.2019 Friday –– 31.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
  21.06.2019 Friday –– 07.06.2019 Friday 12 noon
  28.06.2019 Friday –– 14.06.2019 Friday 12 noon
 JuL y 05.07.2019 Friday — 21.06.2019 Friday 12 noon
  12.07.2019 Friday –– 28.06.2019 Friday 12 noon
  19.07.2019 Friday –– 05.07.2019 Friday 12 noon
  26.07.2019 Friday –– 12.07.2019 Friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2019.
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.