

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1694$27 - 2011 fmnrjdß 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'02'25
No. 1694/27 - FRIDAY ,   FEBRUARY 25, 2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
CO-OPERATIVE  SOCIETY  STATUTE  NO.  5  OF   2009  OF  THE  NORTH  CENTRAL
PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
A Statute to provide for the development of co-operative societies in the North Central Province, to consolidate the law
relating to the constitution and administration of co-operative societies, and to make provision for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto. This statute is inconsistant with the Co-operative Societies Law,  No. 05 of 1972 as amended
by Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Acts No. 32 of 1983 and No. 11 of 1992.
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Establishment of
the Depart-
ment of Co-
operative
Development
of the North
Central
Province and
its objectives
and functions.
Be it enacted by the North Central Province Provincial Council  as follows:-
01.   This Statute may be cited as the Co-operative Societies Statute, No. 5 of 2009 of the North
Central Province Provincial Council  and shall come into operation on such date as the Governor of the
North Central Province may appoint.
Chapter I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT AND ITS FUNCTIONS
02. 2.1 (1)  There shall be established a Department in the North Central Province which shall be
called the Department of Co-operative Development for the purpose of implementation of the subject of
co-operatives (which has been decentralized under Item No. 15 of the Provincial Council List) in the First
List of the 9th Schedule of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
(2) The objectives of the Department of Co-operative Development shall be: -
(3) To improve the knowledge, practices and entrepreneurship of the members and
employees of co-operative societies in compliance with the co-operative vision,
co-operative principles, co-operative policies and co-operative virtues;
(4) To provide guidance and assistance to the public in the Province for the organization,
registration, expansion and strengthening of co-operative societies;
Short Title and
date of
operation.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
2A
(5) To maintain the co-operative entrepreneurship at an excellent level in the entire
development process of the Province;
(a) to register co-operative societies;
(b) to develop co-operative societies;
(c) to act as an intermediate when provisions are allocated to co-operative
societies;
(d) to expand knowledge through education and training for the development of
the co-operative entrepreneurship;
(e) to provide management consultancy services and to conduct researches on
co-operative entrepreneurship;
(f) to act as a co-ordinator between international and national co-operative
organizations;
(g) to settle disputes connected with the co-operative industry;
(h) to enforce through the judiciary the arbitral awards and orders, to institute
action and to undertake matters related to court proceedings;
(i) to conduct general or special audit inspections on accounts and budgets of co-
operative societies;
(j) to cancel the registration of and dissolve defunct societies and to take action to
liquidate such societies;
(k) to perform all other actions incidental or otherwise to the above functions
necessary for the furtherance of objectives of the Department.
2.2 (1) The Governor of the North Central Province shall appoint the Commissioner of
Co-operative Development and the Registrar for the North Central Province (hereinafter
referred to as the “Registrar”).
( 2 ) The head of the Department of Co-operative Development shall be the
Commissioner/Registrar.
(3) Such number of Deputy Registrars, Senior Assistant Registrars and Assistant
Registrars may be appointed as may be necessary for the purpose of this Statute.
(4) The person appointed to be, or to act for the time being as the Commissioner of
Co-operative Development, shall have and may exercise the same powers as are
vested in the Registrar of Co-operative Societies by this Statute, and by any rules
made or deemed to be made thereunder.
(5) All or any of the powers of the Registrar under this Statute and under any rule made
or deemed to be made thereunder may be assigned to any Deputy Registrars, Senior
Assistant Registrars and Assistant Registrars by an order published in the  Gazette
by the Minister.
Appointment of
Registrar,
Deputy, Senior
Assistant and
Assistant
Registrars and
powers of
persons
appointed to
assist the
Commissioner
of Co-
operative
Development.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
Chapter II
ORGANIZATION  AND  REGISTRATION  OF  CO-OPERATIVE  SOCIETIES
03.  (1)   Co-operative societies may be registered, subject to the provisions made or deemed to be
made under this Statute:
(2) Co-operative societies may be registered under this Statute with or without limited liability
in accordance with the rules made or deemed to be made under this Statute.
04.   (1) Every co-operative society expecting to be registered shall have continued to engage in
co-operative activities for at least six months prior to the date of application for registration. The term of
registration may be extended on the opinion of the Registrar and subject to rules made or deemed to be
made under this Statute.
(2)  No society shall be registered under this Statute if it consists only of members, and does
not consist of at least fifteen persons, who are over eighteen years of age or reside or are
employed or owns immovable property within the area of operation of the society and who
is capable of utilizing the services rendered by the society, or if it does not become eligible
as per rules made or to be made under this Statute.
(3)  Where, for the purposes of this Section, any question arises as to whether the conditions
specified in the preceding provisions have not been satisfied, that question shall be decided
by the Registrar, whose decision shall be final.
Provided however that this age limit and other qualifications shall not be applicable to
school co-operative societies.
(4)  Where, for the purposes of this  Section, any question arises as to whether the conditions
specified in the preceding provisions have been satisfied, that question shall be decided by
the Registrar, whose decision shall be final.
(5)   When the Registrar rejects to register any co-operative society or union, an appeal against
such rejection may be submitted to Minister in compliance with the rules made or to be
made under this Statute in that regard.
(6) Every co-operative society with or without limited liability registered under this Statute
shall bear the word “Limited/Unlimited” at the beginning of its name in Sinhala language
and the Tamil and English version of such word shall be a part of its name in Tamil or
English.
(7)  A society shall for the purpose of  registration, make an application to the Registrar in the
form as may be prescribed by rules made under this Statute.
05.
 (1)  For the purpose of registration, an application in the form as may be prescribed by rules
made under this Statute, shall be made to the Registrar.
06.    If the Registrar is satisfied that a society has complied with the provisions of this Statute, and
the rules made there under; that the activity in which the society proposes to engage is economically
viable, and that its proposed by-laws are not contrary to this Statute, or to any rules made thereunder, he
may, if he thinks fit, register the society, and its by-laws. An appeal in accordance with such rules as may
be made in that behalf shall lie to the Minister against the refusal of the Registrar to register any society.
07.   (1)   A certificate of Registration signed by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence that the
society therein mentioned is duly registered, unless it is proved that the registration of the society has
been cancelled.
Societies, which
may be
   registered.
Acceptance of
previous
Co-operative
societies and
Conditions of
Registration.
Application for
registration.
Registration.
Evidence of
Registration.
6 - PG 001226

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
4A
(2)  The Registrar shall, upon registering a society, issue to such society a Certificate of Registration
as specified in rules.
 (3)  If the Registrar is satisfied that any amendment of by-laws is not inconsistent with this
Statute or to the rules made or to be made thereunder, he may, if he thinks fit, register such amendment. An
appeal in accordance with such rules as may be made in that behalf shall lie to the Minister against the
refusal of the Registrar to register any amendment of any By-law.
08. Any registered society may, subject to this Statute and the rules made or to be made
thereunder, amend its by-laws, including the by-law which declares the name of the society.
09. (1)  A registered society may, with the prior approval of the Registrar and by a resolution
passed by a two-third majority of the members or delegate present and voting at a general meeting of the
society –
(a) Transfer its assets and liabilities in whole or in part to any other registered society; or
(b)    Divide itself into two or more societies
(2)  Any two or more registered societies may, with the previous approval of the Registrar and by
a resolution passed by a two-third majority of the members or delegates present and voting at a general
meeting of each such society, amalgamate themselves and form a new society.
The Registrar shall not give approval to any society to transfer its assets and liabilities to any
other registered society and to divide it into two or more societies or to amalgamate with another registered
society.
(3) Where a registered society has passed any such resolution, it shall give notice thereof in
writing to all its members and creditors and, notwithstanding any by-law or agreement to the contrary, any
member or creditor shall, within a period of one month from the service of such notice, have the option of
withdrawing his shares, deposits or loans, as the case may be.
(4)  Any member or creditor who does not exercise his option within the period specified in
sub-section (4) shall be deemed to have assented to the proposals contained in the resolution.
(5) Where a resolution passed by a registered society under this Section involves the transfer of
any assets and liabilities, the resolution shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any law in force for
the time being, be a sufficient conveyance to vest the assets and liabilities in the transferee without any
further assurance.
10.    (1)   Where the whole of the assets and liabilities of a registered society are transferred to
another registered society in accordance with the provisions of this Statute, the registration of the first
mentioned society shall stand cancelled and that society shall be deemed to have been dissolved and shall
cease to exist as a corporate body.
           (2) When two or more registered societies are amalgamated into a new society in accordance
with the provisions of this Statute, the registration of each of the amalgamating societies shall stand
cancelled on the registration of the new society and each such society shall be deemed to have been
dissolved and shall cease to exist as a corporate body.
         (3)  Where a registered society divides itself into two or more societies in accordance with
the provisions of this Statute, the registration of that society shall stand cancelled on the registration of
the new societies, and that society shall be deemed to have been dissolved and shall cease to exist as a
corporate body.
Amendment of
the by-laws of
a registered
Society.
Amalgamation,
Division and
Transfer of
assets and
liabilities of
registered
Societies.
Cancellation of
Registration
certificates of
registered
societies in
certain cases.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
Chapter III
MEMBERS OF REGISTERED SOCIETIES AND THEIR RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES
11. No member of a registered society shall exercise the rights of a member, unless or until he has
made such payments to the society in respect of membership of the co-operative society or acquired such
interest in the society as may be prescribed by rules or by-laws in compliance with the rules made and to
be made under this Statute in this respect.
12.   (1).   A registered society may admit as any associate member, and person who enters into a
contract for the Transaction of business with in accordance with the by-laws of the society in compliance
with the rules made and to be made under this Statute.
(2) Such associate member shall not be entitled to any part whatsoever of the capital or
profits of the society or to exercise the power of voting or to hold any post in the conduct
of business of the society.
(3) Except as provided in this Section, associate member shall have the rights and privileges
of a member as may be clearly stated in the by-laws of the society and shall be accountable
for any duties of a member.
(4) The provisions applicable to associate members shall be included in the by-laws of each
society.
13.   The minority or non-age of any person duly admitted as a member of any registered society
shall not debar that person from executing any instrument or giving any quittance necessary to be executed
or given under this Statute or the rules made thereunder and shall not be a ground for invalidating or
avoiding any contract entered into by any such person with the society; whether as principal or as Surety,
and shall be enforceable at law by or against such person notwithstanding this minority or non-age.
14.    The subsequent discovery, of any defect in the appointments of, or of any disqualification for
election of any officer of a registered society shall not be a ground for invalidating or avoiding any contract
entered into by such officer on behalf of such society.
15.    (1)   No member of any primary society shall have more than one vote in the conduct of the
affairs of the society. Provided that in the case of an equality of votes the Chairman shall have a casting vote.
(2) No Commissioner, Deputy/Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives, no District Officer or
any other officer of the Department of Co-operative Development shall hold any office of
any Co-operative society and shall only be eligible to vote, if they are members of the
society (This does not apply to any society of the officers of the Department of
Co-operatives.).
16. (1)  Any member of a primary society shall at any meeting of the society exercise his vote in
person and for such purpose, shall produce a valid identity card issued by the Government; provided
however, that voting through a delegate at any meeting of the Society may be allowed to vote if it is so
provided under the by-laws of the society.
(2)  Any registered society which is a member of any other registered society, shall appoint by the
majority vote of its Committee its Chairman or any member of its Committee for the purpose of voting in the
conduct of the affairs of the other society.
No member to
exercise their
rights till
payments due
are made and
mode of
purchase of
shares.
Associate
members.
Contracts with
society of
members who
are minors.
Contracts by
officers.
V otes of
Members.
Manner of
exercising
votes.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
6A
Restriction on
transfer of
share or
interest.
17. (1)  The transfer of the share or other interest of a member or past member or deceased member
in the capital of a registered society shall be subject to such conditions as to maximum holding as may be
prescribed by this Statute or by the rules.
       (2)  In the case of a society registered with unlimited liability, no member shall transfer any share
held by him or his interest in the capital of the society or any part thereof, unless:
(a)   He has held such share or interest for not less than one year; and
(b)   The transfer is made to the society, or to a member of the society or to a person whose
application for membership has been accepted by the committee.
Chapter IV
RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS AND PRIVILEGES
18. Every registered society shall have an address to which all notices and communications may be
sent, and shall within seven days of any change of such address, notify the Registrar of such change.
19.   Every registered society shall keep a copy each of the Statue, the rules, and of its by-laws and
a list of its members open to inspection free of charge at all reasonable times, at the registered address of the
society.
20. The registration of a society shall render it a body corporate by the name under which it is
registered, with perpetual succession and a common seal, and with power to hold property to enter into
contracts, to institute and defend suits and other legal proceedings, and to do all things necessary for the
purpose of its constitution.
21.   (1)   A  registered society which has as one of its objects the disposal of any article which is the
produce of agriculture or animal husbandry or any other industry, may under the provisions of rules made or
to be made, provide in its by-laws or may contract with its members: -
(a) That every such member who produces any such article, shall dispose of the whole or of
any specified amount, proportion or description thereof to or through the society, and ;
(b) That any member who is proved or adjudged, in such manner as may be prescribed by
rules, to be guilty of a breach of the by-laws or contract, shall pay to the society as
liquidated damages a sum ascertained or assessed in such manner as may be pre-
scribed by rules, or by its by-laws.
22.  (1)   Where the Minister is satisfied in the case of any registered society that the members of the
society or any section thereof are producers of any article or articles in Sri Lanka or any province, district or
area in Sri Lanka, the Minister may at his discretion, by Order, direct each producer of that article in Sri Lanka
or any province, district or area in Sri Lanka, as the case may be, whether such producer is or is not a member
of the society, to sell to or through the society such part of the total quantity of that article produced by him
as is not required for his own use or consumption.
(2) Every Order made by the Minister under subsection (l) shall be published in the Gazette and
shall specify the article, the area in which the Order shall operate and the basis on which the producer of
such article shall be Paid.
(3)  Every Order shall come into operation on the date of its publication in the Gazette and shall be
in operation until it is rescinded subject to the provisions of sub-section (5).
Address of
Society.
Copies of
Statute, rules,
by-laws Etc., to
be open to
inspection.
Societies to be
bodies
corporate.
Disposal of
produce to or
through
society.
Compulsory
Sale of
produce
through a
registered
society in
certain cases.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
(4) Every Order shall, as soon as convenient after its coming into operation, be brought before the Provincial Council
of the North Central Province.
(5)  Every Order which the Provincial Council of the North Central Province refuses to approve shall be deemed to be
rescinded, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done or supposed to be done there under. The date on
which an Order shall be deemed to be rescinded shall be the date on which the North Central  Province Provincial Council
refuses to approve the order and such date shall be notified in the Gazette.
(6) (a)    The Minister may at any time by Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as “Amending Order”)
vary any Order previously made under subsection (l ) Every Amending Order shall come into operation on the date of its
publication in the Gazette.
(b) An order made under subsection (l), which is varied by an Amending Order shall continue in operation,
as so varied, for the period during which it would have been in operation if it had not been so varied, and
no longer ;
(c) Every Amending Order shall be brought before the Provincial Council of the North Central Province for
approval ;
Provided, however, that where an order made under sub section (1) is varied by one or more Amending
Orders before it is approved by the Provincial Council of the North Central Province under subsection
(4), the Order, when it is brought before the Provincial Council of the North Central Province for approval
under that sub section, shall have incorporated therein all variations effected by such Amending Order
or Orders, and it shall not be necessary in any such case to bring any such Amending Order separately
before the Provincial Council;
(d) The refusal of the Provincial Council of the North Central Province to approve any amending order which
is brought before the Provincial Council of the North Central Province for approval shall deemed to be a
rescission of that amending Order, and the Order made under subsection (1) shall, from the date of such
rescission, continue in operation as though that amending order had not been made;
(e) The Minister may at any time rescind any Order previously made under subsection (1). Notification of the
rescission of any such Order shall be published in the Gazette and such Order shall be deemed to be
rescinded upon the date of such publication.
(7)  Every Order shall, when approved by the Provincial Council of the North Central Province, be as valid and
effectual as if it were herein enacted.
(8)  Every notification required to be published in the Gazette under this Section shall be published under the hand
of the Minister.
(9) The provisions of any Order made under this section shall, notwithstanding that they are inconsistent with or in
conflict with the provisions of any other written law, supercede such other written law for the period during which the Order
is in force.
(10) Every producer who is directed by Order under subsection (l ) to sell any article to or through a registered society
of which he is not a member, shall, in respect of any such sale in compliance with such direction and of any matter or transaction
arising out of such sale, be subject to the same conditions and obligations to which he would have been subject if he were a
member of the society.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
8A
(11) Where any producer in respect of whom an Order is made under subsection (1), and who is not
a member of the registered society, applies for admission as a member of the society, the society shall: –
(a)  If he so desires, deduct from any funds received or held by the society on his
account, the whole or any portion of the subscription for membership; and
(b) Admit him as a member upon payment in full of such subscription subject to any such
deduction as aforesaid.
23.  (1)  Any person who, having knowledge or notice that any other person has contracted under
section 21 or is bound by an Order under Section 22 to sell any article produced by such other person to or
through a registered society, solicits or persuades such other person to sell or deliver such article, in
violation of such contract or in contravention of such Order, as the case may be, shall be guilty of an offence
and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one
thousand rupees.
    (2) Where the person convicted of an offence under Sub-section (1) is a body corporate, every
person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director or officer of the body corporate shall
be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offence was committed without his
knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.
24.  (1)   Subject to any prior claim of the State; or the Provincial Council on the property of a debtor
and to the lien or claim of a landlord in respect of rent or any money recoverable as rent, and to any prior
registered charge thereon –
(a) Any debt or outstanding demand payable to a registered society by any member or   past
member shall be a first charge: -
(i) Upon crops or other agricultural produce raised in whole or in part with a loan taken
from the society by such member or past member;
(ii) Upon any cattle, fodder for cattle, agricultural or industrial equipment, or raw materials
for manufacture, supplied to or purchased by such member or past member in whole or
in part from any loan whether in money or goods given to him by the society;
Provided however that anything contained herein shall not have any bearing on any
claim of any purchaser or assignee who in good faith purchase without notice any
such crops or any other agricultural produce, any cattle, fodder for cattle, agricultural
or industrial equipment, or raw materials for manufacture;
(iii) Upon any sum of money due from the society to such member in respect of the
purchase of any scheduled agricultural product as an agent of any Statutory Board.
(b) Any outstanding demands or dues payable to a housing society by any member or past
member in respect of rent, shares, loans or purchase money or any other rights or amounts
payable to such society shall be a first charge upon his interest in the immovable property
of the society.
(c) The Member in this section shall include the Associate members.
25. (1)   A registered society shall have a charge upon the shares or other interests in the capital and
on the deposits of a member or past member or deceased member and upon any dividend, bonus or profits
payable to a member or past member or to the estate of a deceased member in respect of: –
(a) Any debt due to the society;
Persons
soliciting
others to
violate
contracts.
Rights of
registered
society over
crops,
agricultural
produce,
cattle,
equipment, raw
material and
manufactured
articles
belonging to
any member.
Charge and set-
off in respect
of shares or
interest of
members.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
Shares,
contributions
and other
interests not
liable to
attachment or
sale.
(b) Any debt due to any other registered society;  Or
(c) Any amount due to the liquidator of any registered society: from such member or past
member or estate, and may set off, or pay to such other society, or liquidator, as the case may
be, any sum credited or payable to a member or past member or estate of a deceased member
in or towards payment of any such debt or amount.
26.  Subject to the provisions of  section 25, the share contribution or other interest of a member in
the capital of a registered society shall not be liable to attachment or sale under any decree or order of a court
in respect of any debt or liability incurred by such member, and neither his assignee in-insolvency nor a
receiver appointed under Chapter L of the Civil Procedure Code, shall be entitled to, or have any claim on,
such share, contribution or other interest.
27. (1)  On the death of a member, a registered Society with limited liability or with unlimited liability
may transfer the share or other interest of the deceased member to the person nominated in accordance with
the rules made in that behalf, or, if there is no person so nominated, to such persons as may appear to the
committee to be the heir or legal representative of the deceased member, or may pay to such nominee, heir,
or legal representative, as the case may be, a sum representing the value of such member’s share or other
interest, as ascertained in accordance with the rules or by-laws.
28.    (1)   A  registered society may receive deposits from or for the benefit of minors and it shall be
lawful for a registered society to pay to such minors the interest, which may become due on such deposits.
Any deposits made by a minor may, together with the interest accrued thereon, be paid to that minor; and
any deposit made on behalf of a minor may, together with the interest accrued thereon, be paid to the
guardian of that minor for the use of the minor.
 (2)  The receipt of any minor or guardian for money paid to him by a society under this section
shall be a sufficient discharge of the liability of that society in respect of that money.
29.   (1)   The liability of a past member for the debts of a registered society as they existed on the
date on which he ceased to be a member shall continue for a period of two years reckoned from that date.
     (2)   The estate of a deceased member shall, for a period of two years reckoned from the date of
   his decease, be liable for the debts of the society as they existed on the date of his decease.
30.   (1)  Any register or list of members kept by any registered society shall be prima facie evidence
of any of the following particulars entered therein: -
(a) The date on which the name of any person was entered in such register or list as a
member;
(b) The date on which any such person ceased to be a member;
(c) The name of the nominee of the member and date of nomination.
31.    (1)  A copy of any entry in a book of a registered society regularly kept in the course of
business shall, if certified in such manner as may be prescribed by the rules, be received in any legal
proceeding, civil or criminal, as prima facie evidence of the existence of such entry, and shall be admitted as
evidence of the matters, transactions, and accounts therein recorded in every case where, and to the same
extent as, the original entry itself is admissible.
(2)  No officer of any registered society shall in any legal proceedings to which the society is not
a party, be compelled to produce any of the society’s books, the contents of which can be proved under
Sub-section (1) or to appear as a witness to prove any matters, transactions or accounts therein recorded,
unless the court for special reasons so directs.
Transfer of
interest on the
death of a
member.
Deposits by or
on behalf of
minor.
Liability of past
member and
estate of
deceased
member for
debts of
society.
Register of
members.
Proof of entries
in books of
society.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
10A
32.     (1)    Notwithstanding any written or other law for the time being in force, registered society
may: –
(a) Pledge as security for a general balance of account any securities held by it ; and
(b) Authorize the creditor, in the event of default of payment on the date of the termina-
tion, of a notice issued to the society, to sell any or all of such securities, without
recourse to court, and to credit the proceeds to such balance of account.
33.    A registered society may acquire by purchase, gift or otherwise and take on lease lands,
buildings or other movable or immovable property, or sell, mortgage, lease exchange or otherwise dispose of
lands, buildings or other movable or immovable property for any purpose connected with its objects.
Provided however, that in the case of any transaction previously referred to in this section in
connection with any immovable property or any movable property specified in the rules specifically made
for the purpose, the prior approval of the Registrar shall be obtained in writing.
34. (1)  Where any land or building is required for any purpose connected with the objects of a
registered society, that purpose shall be deemed to be a public purpose and that land or building may be
acquired under the Land Acquisition Act by the Government or the North Central Provincial Council for that
society.
   (2)  Where any land or building is to be acquired under the Land  Acquisition Act by the
Government or the North Central Provincial Council for a registered society, that society shall, before an
Order relating to that land or building is made under section 38 of the said Act, pay to the Government and
the Provincial Council the amount determined under that Act as the compensation payable in respect of
such land or building and also the costs incurred by the Government or by the North Central Provincial
Council in the acquisition process.
 Provided however, that where it becomes necessary to take possession of any land or building on
the ground of any urgency before the amount of compensation is determined under the said Act, the society
concerned shall pay to the Government before such Order is made such amount as, in the opinion of the
acquiring officer is likely to be determined as the compensation payable in respect of that land or building,
and shall pay the balance amount, if any, after the amount of compensation is determined under the said Act.
CHAPTER V
Exemption from Stamp Duty and Fees
35.     (1)   Every registered co-operative society shall be exempt from: -
(a) Any stamp duty chargeable under any written law in respect of any instrument
executed by, on behalf of or in favour of, any registered co-operative society or in
respect of any document filed in a court in cases where but for the exemption granted
by this Sub-section, the registered society would be liable to pay the duty chargeable
in respect of such instrument or document; and
(b) Any other fees payable under the law for the time being in force relating to the
registration of documents.
         (2)  Every member of a registered co-operative society shall be exempt from the payment of
any stamp duty chargeable under any written law in respect of any instrument executed by such member in
favour of or in relation to the business of such co-operative society, in cases where but for the exemption
granted by this Sub-section, the member would be liable to pay the duty chargeable in respect of such
instrument or document.
Deposits of
securities as
pledges by a
society.
Right to acquire
and sell
property.
Compulsory
acquisition of
lands and
buildings.
Exemption from
Stamp duty
and other
charges.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
Chapter VI
GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO BY-LAWS
36. (1) Every by-law of a registered society shall, upon registration, be binding on the society and
on the members thereof to the same extent as if the by-law was signed by each such member of the society
and if it contained a covenant by each such member to observe the provisions of the by-law.
     (2) Any dispute arising out of the interpretation of by-law of a registered society shall be
referred to the Registrar for his decision, and his determination shall be final and conclusive in law.
37.    (1)  No by-law made by a registered society in respect of any matter for which by-laws are
authorized by any rule to be made, shall be called in question in any court of law on the only ground only
that such by-law constitutes a contract in restraint of trade for which purpose the provisions of the rules
made under this Statute shall be complied with.
(a) The by-laws made by any registered society may, subject to the rules, provide for the
imposition of fines on the members of the society for contravention of its by-laws.
Provided, however, that no such fine shall be imposed on any member unless: -
(b) notice in writing of the intention to impose such fine and the reasons therefore have
been given in writing to him by the society; and
(c) he has failed to show within such time and in such manner as may be prescribed by
rules, sufficient cause against the imposition of such fine.
Chapter VII
MANAGEMENT OF BUSINESS, PROPERTY AND FUNDS OF REGISTERED SOCIETIES
38.  (1)  It shall be the responsibility of the Society, Committee and the Staff of any registered
society to conduct its business in such manner as to fulfill the needs of the members in compliance with the
objects of the society and with the development plan approved by the General Meeting according to cost
estimates. The Committee and the executive level Management shall be accountable for any losses incurred
by the society due to negligence, willful omission, non-approved expenses or investments.
   (2) The Commissioner shall take action to recover the expenses incurred in contrary to the
provisions in Sub-section (1) above from those who approve such expenses.
   (3)  When it becomes necessary to spend funds of the society for purposes outside the objects
specified in the by-law of the registered society, the approval of the two thirds majority of the membership
of the General Body and the Commissioner shall be obtained therefor.
39.  (1)  A registered Society shall not make any loan to any person other than a member; Provided
that,  with the approval of the general body of a registered society and on such conditions as may be
imposed by it, a registered society may make loans to another registered society.  A registered society may
on a formal agreement supply goods on credit to any person or institute appointed for business purposes
as a sub-agent of the society and also to an associate member of such society and shall keep a security of
any property as provided for in Rules for the purpose.
40. (1)   A registered society shall receive deposits and loans from persons who are not members
only to such extent and under such conditions as may be prescribed by the rules or by-laws. Mortgages and
deposits shall be governed as provided in rules.
41. (1)  Save as provided in sections 39 and 40, the transactions of a registered society with persons
other than members shall be subject to such prohibitions and restrictions as may be prescribed by the rules.
By-laws of a
society to bind
members.
Administration
of funds and
accountability.
Loans made by
registered
societies.
Deposits and
loans received
by registered
societies.
Restrictions on
other
transactions
with non
members.
Power  is make
By-laws in
restraint of
trade and for
the  imposition
of fines on
members.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
12A
42. (1)  A registered society may deposit or invest its funds in any of the securities other than a
mortgage of immovable property specified in section 20 of the Trusts Ordinance, or with any bank approved
by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and prescribed by rules, or in the shares or on the security of any other
registered society, approved for this purpose, or in any other mode permitted by the rules.
(2).  Any deposit or investment made before the commencement of this Statute, which would have
been valid if this Statute had been in force, is hereby ratified and confirmed.
43. (1)   Every registered society shall, out of its net profits in any financial year as ascertained by
the audit under section 44: –
(a) Transfer an amount not less than 25% of the net profits to the Reserve Fund and to the
Statutory Reserve of the society; and
(b) The Registrar/Commissioner of Co-operative Development shall establish a fund by
the name “Co-operative Development Fund”.  10% of the net profits of the society as determined at the
annual audit shall be contributed to the Fund. If the society has not make any profit in the financial year
concerned, a sum of Rupees Thousand shall be paid to the Fund. The Registrar/Commissioner of Co-
operative Development shall administer the fund in compliance with the provisions made in rules.
(c) Every registered society or any society, which could be registered, shall establish a
fund by the name “Member Education Development Fund”.
(d) 10% of the balance profit remaining after the allocations to the Reserve Fund and Co-
operative Development Fund are made from the access disclosed at the audit of the co-operative society
shall be paid to the Member Education Development Fund.
(2) (a) The committee shall administer the fund in compliance with the provisions provided in the
rules decided on and made by the general body of the co-operative society.
     (b) The provisions in Section (2) (a) and (b) above shall not be applicable to school co-
operative development societies.
(3)  Payment of dividends, payment of rebates, contributions to funds, payment of bonus to
employees, contributions to the Welfare Society and common purposes shall be done as provided in rules
subject to a maximum of 10% of the net profit.
(4)  Provided that no payment of dividends other than contributions to funds shall be effected
without the special or general approval of the Registrar.
Chapter VIII
ACCOUNTS, BUDGET AND AUDIT OF A REGISTERED SOCIETY
44.  (1)   Every registered society shall cause proper accounts of the income and expenditure, assets
and expenditure, assets and liabilities and of all other transactions of the society to be kept.
(2)  Every registered society shall prepare an annual statement of accounts and statistics relating
to the activities of the society, as may be required by the Registrar or any person authorized by him. Such
statement of accounts shall be submitted to the Registrar or other person authorized by him within three
months of the close of the financial year to which it relates.
(3)  It shall be the responsibility of any registered society to cause the accounts of the society be
audited by a person or an institute approved by the Registrar at least once a year.
Investment of
society’s funds.
Audit.
Disposal of
profits.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
Communication
of defects in
society audit to
societies.
45.   (1)   In the event of disclosure of any defects in the business of a registered co-operative
society at the audit held under Section 44, the Registrar may bring such defects to the notice of the society
and if such society is a member of another society, also to the notice of that other society.
        (2) The Registrar may make an order directing the society or its officers to take such action as
may be specified in the order within the time stipulated therein to remedy the defects disclosed.
        (3) The Registrar shall take action in terms of the powers vested in him under the provisions of
this Statute and the rules against such society or officials who violate or neglect the orders made by the
Registrar.
Chapter IX
INSPECTION, INQUIRY OR INVESTIGATION OF A REGISTERED SOCIETY
Inquiry.46. (1)   Where the membership moneys or moneys which are not membership moneys of a regis-
tered co-operative society are misused, the Registrar may of his own motion, and shall, on the application of
majority of the committee, or of not less than one-third of the members, or representatives who are eligible
to be present at a General Meeting in terms of the by-laws of a registered society or one third of the total
membership or  One Hundred members of the society whichever is less, hold an inquiry or direct some
person authorized by him or order in writing in that behalf, to hold an inquiry into the constitution, business,
and financial condition of the registered society.
Provided, however, the Registrar shall have the power to hold a preliminary inquiry or direct in that
behalf to find whether there is a prima facie case for such an inquiry, before directing to hold an inquiry as
provided in Sub-section (1) hereto.
(2)  For the purposes of an inquiry under Sub-section (1), the Registrar or any person authorized by
him to hold an inquiry, shall have the power:-
(a) to summon any past or present officer, agent, employee or member of the society or
any other person who, in the opinion of the Registrar or the person authorized by him
to inquire, can give material information about any transactions of the society or the
management of its affairs;
(b) to require the production of any book or document relating to the affairs of the society,
or any cash or other property belonging to the society, by any past or present officer,
agent, employee or member of the society or other person in possession of or having
the custody of such book, document, cash or other property;
(c) to summon a general meeting of the members of the society at such time and place as
may be specified by him to determine such matters as may be directed by him; and
(d) to take into his custody books of accounts or the documents of the society where he
has disclosed a fraud, in the course of such inquiry;
(3) Any meeting summoned under Sub-section (2)(c) above shall have all the powers of a general
meeting called under the by-laws of the society and its proceedings shall be regulated by such by-laws
except that no quorum shall be necessary for such meeting and the provisions of the by-laws relating to the
period of notice relating to a general meeting shall not be applicable. The Registrar or any person authorized
by him may preside at such meeting but shall have no vote; in the event of an equality of votes, he shall have
a casting vote.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
14A
(4)   If the registrar opines that there is prima facie evidence to establish the charge against the
Committee, he shall have the power to suspend such Committee for a period of six months and to appoint an
interim committee to manage and administer the affairs of the society. The Registrar or any other authorized
person shall conclude the inquiry within a period of six months from the date of suspension of the Commit-
tee and a final decision regarding such Committee shall be made under Sub-section 60 (a).
(5) Where an inquiry is held under this Section the Registrar shall communicate the result of the
inquiry to the society and to the society, if any, of which that society is a member and to any bank to which
the society is indebted.
(6) The Registrar and every person authorized by him to hold an inquiry under this Section shall be
deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code.
47. (1)  The Registrar shall of his own motion, or on the application of a majority of the committee,
or of not less than one-third of the members or representatives who are eligible to be present at a general
meeting in terms of the by-laws, or one-third of the total membership or One Hundred Members of the
society whichever is less, or creditor of a registered society, inspect, or may direct any person authorized
generally or specially by him by order in writing in that behalf to inspect, the books of the society:
Provided that no such inspection shall be made on the application of a creditor unless the
applicant -
(a) proves that an ascertained sum of money is then due to him and that he has demanded
payment thereof and has not received satisfaction within a reasonable time; and
(b) deposits with the Registrar such sum as security for the costs of the proposed inspec-
tion as the Registrar may require.
(2) The Registrar may of his own motion investigate or direct any person authorized by him to
investigate the affairs of any registered society.
(3) The Registrar, or any person authorized by the Registrar shall have the power to conduct
inquiry and investigation, to take into his custody books or the documents, to communicate to banks and
creditors, and shall have the right to levy necessary fees at inquiries and investigations, to execute the
orders of the Magistrate and to summon members. Provisions shall be made in rules with regard to the right
to the disclosure or submission of information to an official, agent, sub-agent, employee, member, associate
member or any other person and the right to convene the general meeting, to take into custody of docu-
ments and to inquire and obtain information.
(4)  Any sum awarded by way of costs against any society or creditor under this Section may be
recovered, on application to the Magistrate’s Court having jurisdiction in the place where the registered
office of the society is situated or the creditor resides, in like manner as a fine imposed by the Court.
(5) The Registrar and every person authorized by him to inspect the books or investigate the affairs
of a registered society shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code and he
shall have powers in terms of the provisions made in the rules.
Chapter X
SUSPENSION OR INTERDICTION AND REMOV AL OF OFFICERS AND DISSOLUTION OF THE
COMMITTEE OF A REGISTERED SOCIETY
48. (1)  If the Registrar is of opinion after an inquiry under Section 46 or an inspection or inves-
tigation under section 47 that the committee of any registered society or any members of such committee are
not performing their duties and functions in a proper manner, he may after giving the Committee or its
members an opportunity to submit their objections if any, in writing to the dissolution of the committee or
the removal of any members from office, and after considering such objections at a general meeting of the
society summoned by him: -
Inspection of
books and
investigation
of affairs of a
society.
Dissolution of the
committee of
Society.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
(a) dissolve the Committee or remove any members of the Committee from office;
  (b)   direct such society to fill the vacancies created by the removal of the Committee or any
member thereof within 14 days;
(c) appoint a person or persons for the management of the affairs of the society if the society
fails to comply with the directive of the Registrar and such committee shall have all rights,
privileges and powers:
(d) re-election of any member of a Committee who is removed from office under Sub-section
(1)(a) above as a member of the committee in any registered Co-operative Society until the
lapse of 07 years from the date of such removal shall be unlawful.
(e)  it shall be the duty of the board of management to take action in terms of by-laws to appoint
a committee prior to the expiry of the term of such board of management.
(2)  If the Registrar is of opinion, after an inquiry under section 46 or an inspection or investigation
under Section 47, that an ex-committee of a registered society or a member of such ex-committee has not
performed its or his duties in a proper manner, the Registrar may, after taking action against the said
committee or the members of such committee in terms of the provisions of Sub-section (1) above: -
(a) appoint a person or persons for the management of the affairs of the society and the
committee so appointed shall have all the rights, privileges and  powers;
(b) any member of the Committee dissolved in terms of Sub-section (I) above, shall not be
re-elected as a member of a committee of any registered co-operative society until the
lapse of 07 years from the date of such dissolution;
(c) a Committee shall be appointed in accordance with the by-laws to operate the affairs of
the society before the expiry of the term of the board of management appointed to the
society.
(3)  If the Registrar is of opinion, after an inquiry under Section 46 or an inspection or investigation
under Section 47, that an ex-committee of a registered society or a member of such ex-committee has not
performed its or his duties in a proper manner, the Registrar may, after taking action against the said
committee or the members of such committee in terms of the provisions of Sub-section (1), issue a direction
in writing prohibiting the said committee or any member thereof, from being re-elected to any committee of
the said society or any other registered co-operative society. The election of any such person to the
committee of any registered co-operative society after such direction shall be unlawful.
(4)   The term of office of a person or persons appointed on an order issued under Sub-section (iii)
of  Section (a) shall be restricted to the unexpired part of the term of office of the person removed under Sub-
section 56(a). Provided however if a General Body has not been established in accordance with the by-laws
of any registered society, the Registrar or the Commissioner shall have the power to extend the term of office
of the person so appointed until the election of a committee after establishing the General Body. Where any
by-law prevents the establishment of such General Body the Registrar shall have the power to exempt the
society from the requirements of such by-law and make necessary provisions for the establishment of a
General Body.
(5)   Where any order is made under Sub-section (a), the Registrar shall, by the same or subsequent
order, appoint a fit and proper person or two or more such persons to manage and administer the affairs of
the society and may from time to time remove or replace any person so appointed or appoint additional
persons.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
16A
(6)   Subject to the general direction and control of the Registrar, any person or persons appointed
under this Section to manage the affairs of a registered society: -
     (a) shall have the power to recover the assets and discharge the liabilities of the society and
take such other steps as may be necessary in its interest ;
   (b)  shall have and may exercise all the powers, rights and privileges of a duly constituted
Committee of the society, and where it becomes necessary to do so in the interest of the efficient manage-
ment of the affairs of such society, shall have the powers of the General Body as are necessary.
(7)  Persons appointed under this Section by the Registrar to manage the affairs of a registered
society shall be jointly and severally held accountable for any loss suffered by any such acts committed by
them as are contrary to the law or the By-laws of the society and shall be liable to any punishment imposed
on the society.
(8)   The Registrar may fix the remuneration payable to any person or persons appointed by him
under this Section to manage the affairs of a registered society. The amount of such remuneration and other
expenses if any, incurred in the management of the society shall be payable from the funds of the said
society.
(9)   It shall be the duty of the person or persons appointed under this Section to manage the affairs
of a registered society and holding office immediately prior to the date on which the direction under
paragraph (b) of Sub-section (1) ceases to have effect to arrange prior to the date aforesaid, for the appoint-
ment of a new committee in accordance with the by-laws of the society.
(10)   Before the completion of an inquiry under Section 46 or an inspection or investigation under
Section 47, if the Registrar is of opinion that a prima facie case has been established against the Committee,
the Registrar shall have the power to suspend such Committee for a period of six months and appoint an
interim board to manage and administer the affairs of a society. The Registrar shall complete such inquiry or
investigation within six months from the date of suspension of such committee and take a final decision
regarding the dissolution of such committee under Sub-section (a)(i) above.
(11)   The Registrar shall appoint a board of management comprising of three members in place of
the Committee so dissolved and those who are so appointed shall posses the qualifications as prescribed by
the rules.
(12)  (a)  If the Registrar is of the opinion after an inquiry under Section 46, or an inspection or
investigation under Section 47, that any officer or employee of any registered society is not performing his
duties in a proper manner, or is unfit or otherwise unable to discharge his duties efficiently, he may notwith-
standing anything to the contrary in this Statute, the Co- operative Employees Commission Statute, No. 09
of 1994 of the North Central Province Provincial Council or any other law after giving such officer or
employee an opportunity to submit their objections, by order in writing suspend or interdict as the case may
be such officer or employee pending such inquiry as may be necessary and after such inquiry remove such
officer or employee from office.
Provided that any employee aggrieved by an order of removal made under this sub-section, may
appeal to the Co-operative Employees Commission established under Statute No. 0l of 1994 of the North
Central Province Provincial Council within a period of thirty days, and the decision of such Commission
shall be final —
(b) Where any officer or employee is removed under Sub-section (1) above and where
such order for removal has been affirmed by the Co-operative Employees’ Commission
or no appeal against such order has been preferred within thirty days, another officer
or employee may be appointed or elected as the case may be in accordance with the
provisions applicable in respect to such election or appointment.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
(c) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Statute or any other law or By-laws of a
registered society, the Registrar may nominate some number of persons as members of
the committee of such society as he thinks fit, or as the case may be, when it is his
opinion that it is expedient to nominate some number of persons as members of the
committee, in order to ensure the efficient management of affairs of the registered
society which is run by the State capital or for the purpose of securing the investment
or advances mad  in money or goods by the State or the Provincial Council of the North
Western Province to that society.
Chapter XI
DISSOLUTION OF A REGISTERED SOCIETY
49. (1)  If the Registrar, after an inquiry under Section 46, or an inspection or an investigation under
Section 47, or on receipt of an application made by three-fourths of the members of a registered society, and
after giving an opportunity to the society and to the creditors of such society to state their objections, is of
opinion that the society ought to be dissolved, he may by order under his hand cancel the registration of the
society.
(2)   Any member or any creditor of a registered Co-operative Society may, within two months from
the date of an order under Sub-section (l) above, appeal from such order to the Minister - in - charge of the
subject of Co-operative.
(3) Where no appeal is made within two months from the making of an order canceling the registra-
tion of a Co-operative Society, the order shall take effect on the expiry of that period. Where an appeal is
made within the said two months, the order shall not take effect until it is confirmed after the hearing of such
appeal.
(4)  Where the Registrar cancells the registration of a Co-operative Society under Sub- section (l),
he may appoint one or more persons to be in charge of the books, documents and other property of the
society and to manage the affairs of the society until the order cancelling the registration of the society takes
effect, or until such order is reversed in appeal by the Minister of Co-operatives in the North Central
Province Provincial Council. Upon the appointment of such person or persons the Committee of the society
or any other person in charge of the books, documents, and other property of the society shall hand over
such books, documents or property to the first-mentioned person or persons and such committee shall
cease to function until the order canclling the registration takes effect or until such order is reversed in
appeal by the Minister of Co-operatives in the North Central Province Provincial Council.
50.  (1) Dissolution of any registered co-op. society , if  & when thus : -
(a) where it is a condition of the registration of the society that the society shall comprised
of at least fifteen members, the number of members of such society has been reduced
to less than fifteen;
(b) the registered society has not commenced working towards its objects within one year
from the date of registration of such society;
(c) the society has ceased to work for a period of two years prior to the date of making the
order of cancellation under this Section.
51. Where the registration of a society is cancelled by an order under Section 49 or 50, the society
shall cease to exist as a corporate body from the date on which the order takes effect, (hereinafter referred to
as the date of dissolution). Provided that any privileges conferred on the society by or under this Statute
shall be deemed to be vested in any liquidator or liquidators appointed for that society by the Registrar.
Dissolution of a
registered
society.
Cancellation of
registration of
society.
Effect of
cancellation of
registration.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
18A
52. Where the registration of a society is cancelled under Section 49 or 50, the Registrar may
appoint one or more persons to be the liquidator or liquidators of such society. All the property of the
society shall be vested in the liquidator or liquidators on the date on which the order of cancellation under
Section 49 or 50, as the case may be, takes effect.
53.  (1)  A liquidator appointed under Section 52 shall, subject to the guidance and control of the
Registrar and to any limitations imposed by the Registrar by order under Section 54, have power: –
(a) to determine from time to time the contributions to be made by members and past
members or by the estates of deceased members of the society to its assets;
(b) to appoint a day by proclamation or notice before which creditors whose claims are not
already recorded in the books of the society shall state their claims for admission or be
excluded from any distribution made before they have proved them;
(c) to decide in accordance with the provisions of this Statute any question of priority
which arises between creditors;
(d) to refer for arbitration under Section 58 any dispute of any description mentioned in
that section (references therein to the society being construed as references to the
liquidator), and institute and defend suits and other legal proceedings on behalf of the
society by his name or office;
(e) to decide by what persons and in what proportions the costs of liquidation are to be
borne;
(f) to give such direction in regard to the collection and distribution of assets as may be
necessary in the course of winding up the society ;
(g) to compromise any claim by or against the society provided the sanction of the Regis-
trar has first been obtained;
(h) to call such general meetings of members as may be necessary for the proper conduct
of the liquidation;
(i) to take possession of the books, documents and assets of the society ;
(j) to sell the property of the society; and to deposit all money collected in arbitration in
such manner as may be directed by the Registrar;
(k) to carry on the business of the society so far as may be necessary for winding it up
beneficially; provided that nothing herein contained shall entitle the liquidator of a
credit society to issue any loan; and
(l) to arrange for the distribution of the assets of the society in a convenient manner when
the Registrar has approved a scheme of distribution.
(2)  Where there is any debt payable by any member or past member to a society whose registration
is cancelled under Section 49 or 50 and such person is a member of any other society registered under this
Statute after the date of such cancellation, then the liquidator of such first mentioned society appointed
under Section 49, shall, subject to the guidance and control of the Registrar and to any other limitations
imposed by the Registrar by order under Section 46, have power to require that such other society shall
recover, from any sum of money due from such society to such person, a sum not exceeding such debt in like
manner as if it was a debt due from such member to such other society and transmit the some to the
liquidator.
Liquidation after
cancellation of
registration of
society.
Liquidator’s
powers.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
(3)  Subject to such rules as may be made in that behalf, any liquidator appointed under this Statute
shall, in so far as such powers are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this section, have power to
summon and enforce the attendance of parties and witnesses and to compel the production of documents
by the same means and (so far as may be) in the same manner as is provided in the case of a District Court
under the Civil Procedure Code.
54.   (1). A liquidator shall exercise his powers subject to the control and direction of the Registrar,
who may: –
(a) rescind or vary any order made by a liquidator and make whatever new order is
required;
(b) remove a liquidator from office;
(c) call for all books, documents, and assets of the society;
(d) by order in writing limit the powers of a liquidator under Section 53;
(e)  require accounts to be rendered to him by the liquidator at his discretion;
(f) procure the auditing of the liquidator’s accounts and authorize the distribution of the
assets of the society;
(g) make order for the remuneration of the liquidator; or
(h) refer for arbitration any dispute (not being a dispute so referable under Section 53(1)
(d) between the liquidator and any third party, if such party consents in writing to be
bound by the decision of the arbitrator.
55.    (1) The decision of an arbitrator on any matter referred to him under  Section 54 shall be binding
upon the parties, and shall be enforceable in like manner as an order made by the Registrar under that
section.
(2)  An order made by a liquidator or by the Registrar under Section 53 or 54 shall not be called in
question in any  Civil  Court, and shall be enforced by any Civil Court having jurisdiction over the area where
the registered office of the society is situated in like manner as a decree of that Court is executed:
Provided however that any bank which is a creditor of a society whose registration has been
cancelled shall be entitled to appeal to the Minister-in-charge of the subject of Co-operative from an order
made by a liquidator or by the Registrar under Section 53 or 54 within two months from the date of such order
of the liquidator or the Registrar.
(3) Where no appeal is presented to the Minister within the period of two months from making of
an order by a liquidator or by the Registrar under Section 53 or 54, such order of the liquidator or, the
Registrar shall take effect on the expiry of that period. Where an appeal is presented to the Minister within
the period of two months, the order of the liquidator or the Registrar shall not take effect until the Minister
confirms it.
56.   Save in so far as hereinbefore expressly provided, no Civil Court shall have any jurisdiction in
respect of any matter concerned with the dissolution of a registered society under. This, Statute.
57.     (1)  In the liquidation of a society whose registration has been cancelled, the funds, including
the reserve fund, shall subject to the provisions of Section 44(2) be applied first to the cost of liquidation,
then to the repayment of Government or Provincial Council of the North Central Province loans and Govern-
ment or Provincial Council of the North Central Province guaranteed loans then to the discharge of the other
liabilities of the society, then to the payment of the share capital and then, provided the By-laws of the
society permit, to the payment of a dividend at a rate not exceeding 10% for any period for which no disposal
of profits was made, and to the payment of a rebate to members for any period for which no disposal of
profits has been made where such period is immediately preceding the date of dissolution.
Power of
Registrar to
control
liquidation.
Enforcement of
order.
Limitation of
the Jurisdiction
of the Civil
Court
Closure of
Liquidation.
7 - PG 001226

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
20A
(2)  When the liquidation of a society has been closed and if any creditor of that society has not
made any claim for what is due to him under the scheme of distribution, or the liquidator has not received any
such claim, notice of the closing of the liquidation shall be published in the Gazette; and, in respect of any
claim against the funds of such society, no action shall be maintainable unless it is commenced within a
period of three months from the date of the publication of such notice in the Gazette.
(3)  Any surplus remaining after the application of the funds to the purposes specified in Sub-
section (1) and the payment of any claims for which an action is instituted under Sub-section (2), may be
applied to such object of local or public utility as may be selected, subject to the approval of the Registrar,
by the persons who were officers of the society at the date of the dissolution thereof.
If such persons fail within three months after the date on which the liquidation of the society is
closed to select as aforesaid an object approved by the Registrar, the Registrar shall deposit the surplus in
a bank or with a registered society.
The surplus so deposited may be paid into such Surplus Fund as may be constituted for the
purpose of this Statute. Disbursement out of such Surplus Fund may be made at the discretion of the
Registrar for such purposes and in such manner as may be provided in the rules. Provided, however, that
any interest accruing on the surplus shall be paid into the Co-operative Fund.
Chapter XII
DISPUTES
58.      (1)  If any dispute touching the business of a registered society arises.—
(a) among members, past members and persons claiming through deceased members,
or among officers or employees of the society, whether past or present, or among
heirs or legal representatives of deceased officers or employees; or
(b) between a member, past member or person claiming through a deceased member,
and the society, its Committee or any officer or employee of the society, whether
past or present, or any heir or legal representative of any deceased officer or em-
ployee; or
(c) between the society or its committee and any officer or employee of the society,
whether past or present, or any heir or legal representative of any deceased officer
or employee; or
(d) between an associate member, past a associate member or deceased  associate
member; or
(e) between  the society or its committee and _ (a) any person who was a member or an
officer or employee of any other society whose business or part thereof was trans-
ferred to the society; (ii) any person who claims through any member or past
member or deceased member of the society referred to in Sub-paragraph (i) above;
(iii) any person who is the heir or legal representative of any officer or employee of
the society referred to in Sub-paragraph (i) above; or
(f) between the society and any other registered society, such disputes shall be re-
ferred to the Registrar for decision.
(g) Any claim by a registered society for any debt, demand or damages due to it from a
member, officer or employee, whether past or present or from an associat member, or
any nominee, heir or legal representative of a deceased member, officer or em-
ployee, or any claim by a member, officer or employee, an associat member whether
past or present, or any nominee heir or legal representative of a deceased member,
officer or employee for any debt, demand or damages due to them from a registered
society, whether such debt demand or damages be admitted or not, shall be deemed
to be a dispute touching the business of the society within the meaning of this
Sub-section.
Settlement of
Disputes.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
(2) The Registrar may, on receipt of a reference under Sub-section (1): –
(a) Determine the dispute himself, or
(b) Refer it for disposal to an arbitrator or arbitrators.
(3) Any party aggrieved by an award of the arbitrator or arbitrators may appeal there from to the
Registrar within 45 days from the date of such award in writing giving reasons therefor. If the Plaintiff is
making the appeal, he shall deposit a sum equivalent to 10% of the value of the subject of the dispute and in
the case of defendant making the appeal, he shall deposit a sum equivalent to 10% of the award.
(4)  No party to any appeal made to the Registrar under Sub-section (3) above shall be entitled to
appear either by himself or by any representative, before and be heard by the Registrar on such appeal.
(5)  A decision of the Registrar under Sub-section (2) or in appeal under Sub-section (3) shall be
final and shall not be called in question in any civil suit.
(6) The award of the arbitrator or arbitrators under Sub-section (2) shall, if no appeal is preferred to
the Registrar under Sub-section (3) or if any such appeal is abandoned or withdrawn, be final and shall not
be called in question in any civil court.
(7) The provisions of the Prescription Ordinance shall not apply to any claim, which is the subject
of a dispute under this Section.
 (8)  If any question arises as to whether a dispute referred to the Registrar under this Section is a
dispute touching the business of a registered society, the decision thereon of the Registrar shall be final and
shall not be called in question in any civil suit.
 (9)  In this section “member” includes associate member.
59.    (1)  Where a decision of the Registrar on a dispute or an appeal referred or made to him under
Section 58, (hereafter in this Section referred to as “decision”) or an award of an arbitrator on a dispute
referred to him under that Section (hereafter in this Section referred to as “award”), even if no appeal has
been duly made to the Registrar under the said Section is that a sum of money due from one party to the other
party to the dispute, and such sum together with charges and interests connected therewith, if any, has not
been paid, the Registrar may in respect of the party from whom such sum is due, (hereafter in this Section
referred to as the “defaulter”),
(a) issue a certificate to a Divisional Secretary/Assistant Divisional Secretary, Fiscal or Deputy
Fiscal, containing particulars of such sum together with costs and interest, and the name of
such defaulter ; or
(b) issue a certificate to a District Court having jurisdiction in any district where the defaulter
resides or in which any property movable or immovable owned by the defaulter is situated,
containing particulars of the sum due together with charges and interest, if any, and the name
of the defaulter ; or
(c) issue a certificate containing particulars of the amount due and the name and last-known
place of business or residence of the defaulter to a Magistrate having jurisdiction in the
division where such place is situated.
Enforcement of
a decision or
award.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
22A
(2)       (a)  Where the Registrar issues a certificate under Sub-section (1)(a) above  to a, Divisional
Secretary/Assistant Divisional Secretary Fiscal or Deputy fiscal, such officer is hereby empowered and
required to cause such sum together with costs and interest to be recovered from the defaulter by seizure
and sale of his movable property.
(b) The said seizure shall be effected in such manner as such officer shall deem most
expedient in that behalf, and every property so seized shall be kept for five days at the
cost and charge of the defaulter. If the defaulter does not pay such sum as is due
together with costs and interest, and the cost and charge of seizing and keeping the
property, within the said five days, the Divisional Secretary/Assistant Divisional Sec-
retary, Fiscal or Deputy Fiscal, as the case may be, shall cause the said property to be
sold by public auction.
(c) The sum realized by the sale shall be applied: –
(i) firstly, to pay the cost and charge of seizing, keeping and selling the property,
and
(ii) secondly, to settle the sum of money due together with costs and Interest and
any sum remaining thereafter shall be restored to the owner of the property
seized.
(3)  Where a certificate is issued to a District Court under Sub-section (1)(b), the Court shall
thereupon direct a writ of execution to issue to the Fiscal authorizing and requiring him to seize and sell all
or any of the property movable and immovable of the defaulter, or such part thereof as he may deem
necessary for the recovery of such sum, and the provisions of Sections 226 to 297 of the Civil Procedure
Code shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such seizure and sale.
(4)  Where a certificate is issued to a Magistrate under paragraph (c) of Sub-section (1), the
Magistrate shall thereupon summon such defaulter before him to show cause as to why further proceedings
for the recovery of the amount should not be taken against him, and in the case of failure to show sufficient
cause, the amount shall be deemed to be a fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate on such defaulter
for an offence punishable with only fine but not with imprisonment, and the provisions of Section 312
(except paragraphs (a) and (c) of Sub-section (1) of that Section) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.
15 of 1979 shall thereupon apply, and the Magistrate may make any direction which, by the provisions of
that Section, he could have made at the time of imposing such sentence. Any defaulter sentenced to a term
of imprisonment in default of the payment of fine imposed in accordance with Section 291 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall not be absolved from the payment of any sum of money
mentioned in the certificate specified in Section 59 (1) (c).
(5) Where the Registrar issues a certificate under this Section, he shall issue to the defaulter a
notification thereof by personal service, registered post or telegraph; but non – receipt of such notification
by the defaulter shall not invalidate proceedings under this Section.
(6)  Nothing in this Section shall authorize or require a District Court or Magistrate in any proceed-
ings there under to consider, examine or decide the correctness of any statement in the certificate of the
Registrar.
(7)  Any sum realized by a sale under Sub-section (3) and any sum paid or levied as fine under Sub-
section (4) shall be transmitted by the District Court or the Magistrate, as the case may be, to the Registrar
who shall dispose of such sum in accordance with the relevant decision or award.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
60.  (1)  Where the application for membership of a registered society made by any person is
refused by the society, such person may appeal to the Registrar against the refusal and the decision of the
Registrar on such appeal shall be final and binding on the society.
(2) Where any question arises as to whether a member of a registered society has been duly elected
to any office in the society or whether a member has ceased to be a member or officer of the society, or
whether any general meeting of the society had been validly held, the Registrar shall decide that question
and shall intimate to the society such decision which shall be final and binding on the society.
(a) (i) In the event of any loan, advance or grant is obtained by a registered society from the
government, such loan, advance or grant shall be subject to following conditions:
(ii) The prior approval in writing of the Registrar shall be obtained for the acquisition by
purchase, leasing, gift or otherwise lands, buildings or other movable or immovable
property or for the sale, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of lands,
buildings or other movable or immovable property for the purpose of any matter
connected with the object of the society.
(iii) The funds of the society shall be deposited or invested in any of the securities other
than a mortgage of immovable property specified in Section 20 of the Trusts Ordi-
nance, or with any bank approved for such purpose by the Registrar and prescribed by
rules, or in the shares or on the security of any other registered society, approved for
this purpose by the Registrar, or in any other mode permitted by the rules.
(iv) If the Registrar is of the opinion, after an inquiry under Section 46, or an inspection of
books, that the Committee of a registered society run on government funds, is not
performing its duties properly, he shall after giving an opportunity to the committee to
state its objections, if any, to its dissolution, submit to the general meeting summoned
by him in compliance with rules the facts found by him and the general body shall
dissolve such committee within a period of time specified by the Registrar. If the
general body fails or neglects to dissolve such committee, the Registrar shall direct the
general body to appoint a board of management upon the removal of such committee
by the Registrar. In the event of failure of the general body to appoint a board of
management within 14 days, the Registrar may appoint a suitable person or persons to
manage the affairs of such society. The members of any dissolved committee shall not
be eligible to be appointed to any office of any registered society for a period of 05
years from the date of such dissolution. The board of management appointed under
this Section shall hold office for the period specified in Sub-section (1) (b) of Section
48 and they shall have same powers and functions as of those appointed under the
said Section.
(v) The Registrar shall before or after conducting an inquiry or investigation under Sec-
tion 46 or 47 have powers to direct the committee of a society to take legal action
regarding any common property of such society. In the event of failure of such com-
mittee to execute such directive, the Registrar or any person authorized by him shall
have powers to refer same to the court in pursuance of the provisions of the Offences
committed against Public Property Act No.12 of 1982.
(b) (i)  If the Registrar is of the opinion after an inquiry under Section 46, or an inspection or
investigation under Section 47, that any officer or employee of any registered society is not
performing his duties in a proper manner, or is unfit or otherwise unable to discharge his
duties efficiently, he may notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Statute, the Co-
operative Employees Commission Statute, No. 09 of 1994 of the North Central Province
Registrar to
decide certain
other matters.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
24A
Provincial Council or any other law after giving such officer or employee an opportunity to
submit his objections, by order in writing suspend or interdict as the case may be such
officer or employee pending such inquiry as may be necessary and after such inquiry remove
such officer or employee from office.
Provided that any employee aggrieved by an order of removal made under this sub-section,
may appeal to the Co-operative Employees Commission established under Statute No. 0l of
1994 of the North Central Province Provincial Council within a period of thirty days, and the
decision of such Commission shall be final.
(ii) Where any officer or employee is removed under Sub-section (1) above and where
such order for removal has been affirmed by the Co-operative Employees’ Commission
or no appeal against such order has been preferred within thirty days, another officer
or employee may be appointed or elected as the case may be in accordance with the
provisions applicable in respect to such election or appointment.
(c) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Statute or any other law or by-laws of a regis-
tered society, the Registrar may nominate some number of persons as members of the com-
mittee of such society as he thinks fit, or as the case may be, when it is his opinion that it is
expedient to nominate some number of persons as members of the committee, in order to
ensure the efficient management of affairs of the registered society which is run by the State
capital or for the purpose of securing the investment or advances made in money or goods
by the State or the Provincial Council of the North Western Province to that society.
Chapter XIII
RULES
Rules. 61.  (1) The Minister in charge of the subject may make all such rules as may be necessary for the
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and provisions of this Statute.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1),
such rules may –
(a) prescribe the conditions to be complied with in applying for the registration of a society and
the procedure in the matter of such applications ;
(b) prescribed the conditions to be complied with by persons applying for admission or admitted
as members and associate members and provide for the election and admission of members
from time to time and the payment to be made and interest to be acquired before exercising
rights of membership :
 (c) provide for the withdrawal and expulsion of members and for the payments to be made to
members who withdraw or are expelled, and for the liabilities of past members ;
(d) prescribe the extent to which the registered society may limit the number of its members ;
(e) provide for the mode in which the value of a deceased member’s interest shall be ascertained,
and for the nomination of a person to whom such interest may be paid or transferred ;
(f) subject to the provisions of Section (3), prescribe the maximum number of shares or portion
of the capital of a registered society which may be held by a member ;

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
(g) prescribe the payments to be made, the conditions to be complied with, and the forms of the
bonds, instruments or other documents to be executed, by members applying for loans or
cash credits, the period for which loans may be made or credits granted, and the maximum
amount which may be lent and the maximum credit which may be allowed to individual
members ;
(h) prescribe the conditions under which profits may be distributed to the members of a society
with unlimited liability, and the maximum rate of dividend which may be paid by societies;
(i) regulate the manner in which funds may be raised by means of shares or debentures or
otherwise and the rate of interest which may be paid on deposits;
(j) (i) provide for general meetings of the members, and for the procedure at such meetings
           and the powers to be exercised by such meetings;
(ii) prescribe the disqualifications of members of a registered society from being elected
as a member the Committee of Management or of a regional or branch committee;
(k) provide for the appointment, suspension, and removal of the members of the committee and
other officers, and for the procedure at meetings of the committee, and for the powers to be
exercised and the duties to be performed by the committee and other officers;
(l) prescribe the matters in respect of which a society may or shall make by - laws, and for the
procedure to be followed in making, altering, and rescinding by - laws, and the conditions to
be satisfied prior to such making, alteration, or rescission;
(m) prescribe the accounts and books to be kept by a registered society, and for the periodical
publication of a balance sheet showing the assets and liabilities of a registered society;
(n) provide for the audit of the accounts of registered societies and for the charges, if any, to be
made for such audit and provide for the levy of contributions from all or any registered
societies to a fund to be known as the Co-operative Development Fund, to be used for the
audit and supervision of and assistance to existing societies and co-operative propaganda,
for Co-operative education and training, and provide for the administration of that Fund;
(o) prescribe the returns to be submitted by registered societies to the Registrar, and the per-
sons by whom and the form in which the same are to be made;
(p) provide for the persons by whom, and the form in which, copies of entries in books of
registered societies may be certified;
(q) provide for the formation and maintenance of a register of members, and, where the liability
of the members is limited by shares, of a register of shares;
(r) provide for the formation and the maintenance of reserve funds, and the objects to which
such funds may be applied, and for the investment of any funds under the control of any
registered society;
(s) prescribe the manner in which any question, as to the breach of any by - law or contract
relating to the disposal of produce to or through a society, may be determined, and the
manner in which the liquidated damages for any such breach may be ascertained or as-
sessed;

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
26A
(t)  prescribe the mode of appointing an arbitrator or arbitrators, and the procedure to be fol-
lowed in proceedings before the Registrar or such arbitrator or arbitrators, and the enforce-
ment of the decisions of the Registrar or the awards of arbitrators;
(u) prescribe the conditions to be observed by a registered society applying for the financial
assistance of Government; or of the Provincial Council;
(v) determine the cases, not expressly provided for in this Statute, in which an appeal shall lie to
the Minister against orders made by the Registrar;
(w) prescribe the procedure to be followed by a liquidator appointed under Section 61, and the
cases in which appeals shall lie from the orders of such liquidator;
(x) provide for the establishment and maintenance of the Surplus Fund referred to in Section 67
and prescribe the manner and purposes for which the moneys of such Fund may be dis-
bursed;
(y) Prescribe the forms to be used, the fees to be paid, the procedure to be observed, and all
other matters connected with or incidental to the presentation, hearing and disposal of
appeals under this Statute or the rules made there under.
(z) Ineligibilities of electing a member of a registered co-operative society as a member of a
management committee or a divisional branch committee can be ordered.
(3)  No rule shall have effect unless it has been approved by the Provincial Council. Notification of
such approval shall be published in the Gazette.
(4)  Every rule shall, upon the publication in the Gazette of the Notification referred to in subsection
(3) be as valid and effectual as though it were herein enacted.
Chapter XIV
DEBTS DUE TO GOVERNMENT AND PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Recovery of
sums due to
government
and the
Provincial
Council.
62. (1)  All sums due from a registered society, or from an officer or member or past member of a
registered society as such, to the Government, including sums due on Government loans Provincial Council
Loans and Government Guaranteed loans and Provincial Council guaranteed loans and any sums granted,
by the Government may be recovered in manner provided for the recovery of debts due to the Republic by
the State Debtors Ordinance, and shall, subject to the provisions of section 57(2), be entitled to a preference
of payment over sums due to any other person or persons.
(2)  Sums due from a registered society to Government and a Provincial Council and recoverable
under subsection (1) may be recovered, first from the property of the society; secondly in the case of a
registered society of which the liability of the members is limited, from the members, subject to the limit of
their liability; and thirdly, in the case of other societies, from the members.
Chapter XV
MISCELLANEOUS
Special power of
Minister to
exempt any
society from
requirements
as to registra-
tion.
63.  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Statute, the Minister in charge of the subject may,
by special order in each case, and subject to such conditions as he may impose, exempt any society from any
of the requirements of this Statute as to registration.

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
Special power of
Minister to
exempt
societies from
provisions of
this Statute.
Restriction of
use of word
“Co-opera-
tive."
Registrar may
order
repayment or
restoration of
money or
other property
due to a
society.
64.  The Minister may by general or special order exempt any registered society or class of societies
from any of the Provisions of this Statute, or may direct that such provisions shall apply to any society or
class of societies with effect from such date or with such modifications as may be specified in the order.
65. (1)   No person other than a registered society by the Provincial Registrar shall, without the
sanction of the Minister- in-charge of the subject of co-operatives in the Provincial Council trade or carry on
business under any name or title of which the word “Co-operative”, or in Sinhala the words “Eksath
Sahakara” (tlai;a iyldr ) or “Samupakara” ^iuQmldr) or in Tamil the word “Aikkiya” ( whslalsh) or
“Kutturavu” ( l=Ügqrõ ) form part: Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the use by any person
or his successor in interest of any name or title under which he traded or carried on business prior to the
twenty second day of 20th September, 1921.
(2) Whoever contravenes the provisions of this section shall be liable on conviction after summary
trial by a Magistrate’s Court to a fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, and in The case of a
continuing offence, with a further fine of five hundred  rupees for each day on which the offence is
continued after conviction therefore.
66. (1) Where in the course of an audit under Section 44 or an inquiry under Section 46, or inspec-
tion of books of a society under section 47 or investigation or in the course of the liquidation of a registered
society, it appears that any sum of money or other property is due to the society from any person or group
of persons who or which has taken part in the organization or management of the society or from any past
or present officer or employee of the society who has utilized the funds of the society contrary to the
provisions of this Statute or any other law or rules or regulations made thereunder or the by-laws or the
working rules of the society or financial procedure approved by the Registrar or any general direction issued
by the Registrar or the Co-operative Employees Commission, the Registrar may, of his own motion or upon
the application of the committee or the liquidator or any creditor or contributor of the society, as the cases
may be, examine the conduct of such person or group of persons or officer or employee and make an order
requiring him or such group: -
(a) to repay with such interest as the Registrar thinks fit such money or part thereof,
(b) to restore such other property or part thereof, or
(c) to contribute such sum as the Registrar thinks fit to the assets of the society by way of
compensation. Before making any such order against any person or group of persons the
Registrar shall give that person or group of persons an opportunity of being heard and of
showing cause why such order should not be made.
(2)  Where an order under Sub-section (1) for the repayment of any sum to a registered society, or
for the contribution of any sum to its assets by way of compensation, has not been complied with, such sum
may be recovered by the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the division in which the registered place of
business of the society is situated or in which the person or group of persons or officer or employee against
whom the order was made resides or carries on business as through it were a fine imposed by a sentence of
the Magistrate, on such person or group of persons or officer or employee for an offence punishable with
fine only or not punishable with imprisonment, and the provisions of section 291 (except paragraphs (a) and
(d) of Sub-section (1) of that Section) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Code Act, No.l5 of 1979 shall
thereupon apply, and the Magistrate may make any direction which, by the provisions of that section, he
could have made at the time of imposing such sentence. Nothing in this section shall authorize or require the
Magistrate in any proceedings thereunder to consider, examine or decide the correctness of any order made
by the Registrar.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
28A
(3)  Neither the preceding provisions of this section nor the making of any order thereunder may be
deemed or construed to preclude or otherwise affect the institution or maintenance of a prosecution against
any person or group of persons, or officer or employee referred to in Sub-section (l) in respect of any offence
under any other written law.
(4)  (a)  The Chairman and every member of the committee of a registered society shall make, to the
Commissioner of Co-operative Development, in the prescribed form, an annual declaration of: -
i. all his assets and liabilities;
ii. all the assets and liabilities of his spouse; and
iii. all the assets and liabilities of each of his children as on the thirty-first day of March of
the year in respect of which such declaration is made.
(b) The declaration referred to in subsection (1) shall be made by the Chairman or member of the
committee of a registered society, to the Commissioner of  Co-operative Development, within
three months of his election or appointment, a: the case may be, as such Chairman or member,
and unless he ceases to be such Chairman or member, before the first day of July of every
year succeeding the year in which he made his first declaration.
67.   It shall be lawful for the Registrar, after the accounts of a registered society have been audited
as provided in section 44 or after an inquiry under section 46 or an inspection of books and investigation of
affairs of a registered society has been held under section 47, to require any person, being a person who is
or has at any time been entrusted with or being a persons having or at any time having had the dominion of,
any money, or any goods or property, in his capacity as an officer or a member or a servant of the society, to
pay over or produce such amount of money or balance thereof or pay the value of such goods or property
which is shown in the books of accounts or statements kept or signed by such persons as held by or due
from him as such officer, member or servant; and if such person upon being so required, fails to pay over or
produce such amount of money or balance thereof forthwith or the value of such goods or property or to
duly account therefore, he shall be guilty of the offence of criminal breach of trust and shall on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceed-
ing ten years and shall also be liable to a fine, notwithstanding that such punishment exceeds the ordinary
jurisdiction of a Magistrate.
68.   (1)  Notwithstanding anything in any other written law, the Registrar may, where he considers
it necessary to do so, require any bank: -
(a) to furnish any information regarding the transactions of any registered society with the
bank;
(b) to produce a copy showing the account of the society with the bank from the ledger. kept by
the bank; or
(c) to produce any cheques paid to the credit of the society or endorsed by the society.
        (2)  It shall be lawful for an officer of the Department of Co-operative Development to investi-
gate, inquire and conduct prosecutions, which fall within Chapter XVII of the Code of Criminal Procedure
Act, No. 15 of 1979 in respect of any matter involving a registered society.
Declaration of
assets and
liabilities.
Liability of
officers, & etc
for breach of
trust.
Registrar may
require bank to
produce any
information &
etc.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
69. The provisions of the Companies Ordinance, and of the Trade Unions Ordinance, and of any
enactments amending those Ordinances, shall not apply to societies registered under this Statute.
70.    (1)  With the coming into force of this Statute, every society registered or deemed to have been
registered under the Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972 as amended by Act No: 32 of 1983 and Act No:
11 of 1993 or under any enactment repealed by that Law shall be deemed to have been registered under this
Statute and the by-laws of such society shall, so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Statute, continue in force until altered or rescinded.
       (2)  All rules made under the Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972 as amended by Act No:
32 of 1983 and Act No: 11 of 1993 or under any enactment repealed by that Law and in force at the time of
commencement of this Statute shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Statute,
be deemed to have been made under this Statute, and shall continue in force until new rules are made under
Section 61 in substitution for those rules.
       (3) All appointments and orders made, notification and notices issued, all civil or other pro-
ceedings instituted or deemed to have been made, issued or instituted, and all disputes that have arisen
under the Co-operative Societies, Law No. 5 of 1972 as amended by Act No: 32 of 1983 and Act No: 11 of or
under any enactment repealed by that Law and in force at the time of commencement of this Statute shall, so
far as may be, be deemed to have been respectively made, issued, and instituted and to have arisen under
this Statute.
71. Where any registered society carrying on banking business of any kind has insured its depos-
its under Part II of Chapter V of the Monetary Law Act the assets relating to the deposits insured under that
Part, shall notwithstanding anything in any other provisions of this Statute, not be utilized for any purpose
other than to meet the liabilities relating to such deposits
72.   (1) Every registered society or an officer or employee or member thereof which or who willfully
neglects or refuses to do any act or to furnish any information required for the purposes of this Statute by
the Registrar or other person duly authorized by him in that behalf, and every person who willfully or
without any reasonable excuse disobeys any summons, requisition or lawful written order issued under the
provisions of this Statute, or fails to furnish any information lawfully required from him by a person autho-
rized to do sounder the provisions of this Statute, and every registered society or officer or employee or
member thereof which or who willfully makes a false return or furnishes false information, shall be guilty of
an offence under this Statute.
(2) Every person who commits any offence referred to in Sub-section (1) shall, on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to imprisonment of either description of term not exceeding two
years or to a fine not exceeding twelve thousand rupees or both such fine and imprisonment.
 (3) Where any offence under this Statute is committed by a registered society, every officer of the
society bound by the by-laws or the rules to perform any duty whereof the offence is a breach, or if there is
no such officer, then every member of the committee, unless that member is proved to have been ignorant of
or to have attempted to prevent the commission of the offence, shall be liable to the same penalty as if he had
committed the offence.
Companies
Ordinance and
Trade Unions
Ordinance not
to apply.
Saving of
existing rules
etc.,
Assets relating
to deposits
insured under
Monetary Law
Act not to be
utilized except
for meeting
liabilities
relating to
such deposits.
Penalty for non -
compliance
with this
Statute.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
30A
(4)  No suit or prosecution shall lie against the Registrar, Deputy Commissioner, Senior Assistant
Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners, or other persons duly authorized or appointed by the Registrar
for any act which in good faith is done or purported to be done in the performance of their duties or the
discharge of their functions under this Statute.
73.   (1)  The Registrar or any person authorized by general or special order in that behalf by him
shall have the power to summon at any time specified a general meeting of any society or regional general
meeting of such society, at such time and place as may be specified by him, and the presence of twenty
members or delegates who are eligible to be present ant to cast vote at a general meeting shall be sufficient
for such meeting and it shall be the quorum for such meetings. This shall not be applicable to any dormant
Co-operative Society, and shall not be applicable to committees of General Body. Such general meeting or
regional general meeting of a society shall have the same powers specifically conferred under the by-laws of
the society regarding the respective general meeting.
       (2) The Registrar or any person authorized by written order in that behalf by him shall have the
power to summon at any time committed meeting or regional Committees meeting of any registered society,
at such time and place as may be specified by him and the quorum for such meeting shall be one fifth of the
delegates of the General Body present; this shall not be applicable to any dormant Co-operative Society, and
shall not be applicable to committees of the General Body. Such committee meeting or regional committee
meeting shall have the same powers as specifically conferred under the by-laws of the society in the
respective committee meeting.
       (3) When any committee meeting summoned, the Registrar or any person authorized by him on
that behalf shall have the power to call for books and documents of the society as he may be thinks
necessary and it shall be the duty of the Secretary of such society to comply with all such orders. The
Registrar or any person authorized by law on that behalf shall preside at any such meeting summoned under
Sub-section (1) and (2), and shall not have the general voting rights the determination of matters contained
in the agenda.
    (4) The Registrar or any person authorized by general or special written order in that behalf by
him shall have the power to be present at any general meeting or committee meeting and to speak at such
meeting. But the Registrar or any such Authorized person shall not have the right of voting at such meeting.
74.  (1)  A member of parliament, a member of  a provincial council or a member of a local
               government  body,  shall never become eligible to  hold any post in a registered
co- operative society.
      (2) Any officer of the staff of the Co-operative Development Commissioner and the Registrar,
shall not become eligible to  be appointed for any post of a Co-operative society unless he is appointed by the
Commissioner and Registrar. This section is not relevant to a co-operative society of co-operative employees.
75.    In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires: -
“co-operative society” means a co-operative union;
 “By - laws” means the registered by laws for the time being in force and includes a registered
amendment of the By -laws ;
Registrar’s
powers to
attend to
statutory
functions of a
society.
Ineligibility of
those  who
hold posts in
active political
levels and the
staff of the Co-
operative
Development
Commissioner
and Registrar,
to be appointed
for any post of
the committee.
Interpretation

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'0 2'25
PART IV(A) —  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2011
“Minister” means the North Western Province Provincial council Minister in charge of the subject
of Co-operative Development;”
''committee” means the governing body of a registered society of which the management of its
affairs is entrusted and includes the board of directors of a registered society, and persons appointed and
nominated by the Registrar under section 52 of this Statute.
“officer” means any person who is the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer or Manager
of a society or any branch thereof or a member of the committee of a society, and any other person who is
empowered by the rules or by - laws of a society to give directions in regard to the business of the society.
“ bank” means: –
(a) any corporate, which carries on in Sri Lanka the business of accepting from the public, or of
creating, demand deposits ;
(b) any agency or institution acting on behalf of the Government (whether established by any
written law or otherwise) which makes loans, advances or investments or accepts deposits
of money from the public ;
(c) the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon established under the Development Fi-
nance Corporation of Ceylon Act ; and
(d) any other person or body of persons declared by the Minister in-charge of the subject of
Finance, in consultation with the Minister- in-charge of the subject of Co-operative Devel-
opment, by Order published in the Gazette, to be a bank for the purposes of this Statute.
 “primary society” means a registered society not being a society established with any object, or
for any purpose referred to in paragraph (b) (c) or (d) of Section 3(1) ;
“government funds” means the moneys or goods obtained on loan from the Central Government,
North Western Province Provincial Council, from any fund of the Department of Co-operative Development
or from any State or private bank with the approval of the Commissioner or the Registrar;”
“rules” means rules made or deemed to have been made under this Statute;
“Registrar” means the person appointed to perform the duties of the Registrar of Co-operative
Societies of the Provincial Council under this Statute;
“the staff of the Registrar” means the Commissioner of Co-operative Development, Deputy Regis-
trars, Assistant Registrars, District Co-operative Development Officers and Co-operative Development
Officers of the North Western Province Provincial Council;
“registered society” means a society registered or deemed to be registered under this Statute and
includes societies registered or deemed to be registered before the coming into effect of this Statute;
“member” includes a person joining in the application for the registration of a society, and a person
admitted to membership after registration in accordance with the rules and by-laws and includes persons
who acquire the associate membership;
“associate member” means a person who acquire the membership of a co-operative society in
anticipation of specific service from such society only for such period in which he accomplishes such
service.
76.   In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Statute, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
03-371
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
Sinhala text to
prevail In case
of inconsis-
tency