

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2039$32 - 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'10'06
No. 2039/32 - FRIDAY,  OCTOBER  06, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG  3718 — 507  (10/2017)
L.D. B. 7/2001(I)
THE UNITED NATIONS ACT, No. 45 OF 1968
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs under Section 2 of the United Nations Act, No. 45 of 1968.
TILAK M ARAPANA
Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Colombo,
04th of October, 2017.
Regulations
1. These regulations shall be cited as the United Nations (Sanctions in relation to Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea) Regulations of 2017.
2. The United Nations Security Council Resolution  1718 (2006), and the modifications and strengthening of the
Resolution by the subsequent resolutions including 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013), 2270 (2016), 2321 (2016)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
2A
and 2371 (2017) and any other subsequent resolutions, which emphasize that proliferation of nuclear, chemical
and biological weapons as well as their means of delivery constitute a threat to international peace and security
and reaffirm that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (hereinafter referred to as "DPRK") shall suspend
all activities related to its nuclear and ballistic missile programme and abandon all nuclear weapons and existing
nuclear programme which constitute threat to international peace and security, impose upon member states of
the United Nations a series of obligations to apply sanction measures in relation to DPRK. The Security Council
of the United Nations acting under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, on 14th October, 2006,
unanimously adopted Resolution 1718 (2006).
PART I
COMPETENT AUTHORITY
3. There shall, for the purpose of these regulations be a Competent Authority who shall be appointed by the Minister
in consultation with the Minister assigned the subject of Defence.
PART II
PROHIBITTED ACTIVITIES
4. (1) A  person in Sri Lanka or a citizen of Sri Lanka outside Sri Lanka shall not—
(a) supply, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly, any item or any luxury item designated by the United Nations
Security Council or the Committee (hereinafter referred to as "designated item or designated luxury item")
including any item listed in Schedule I to these regulations to any person in the DPRK or any person acting
on behalf of the DPRK, whether or not the item originated in Sri Lanka; or
(b) procure, store or transfer  any designated item or designated luxury item including any item listed in
Schedule II to these regulations from any person in the DPRK or any person acting on behalf of DPRK,
whether or not such item originated in the DPRK.
(2) The Competent Authority shall forthwith publish in the Gazette-
(a) the first lists of designated items and designated luxury items specified in Annex III and IV of United
Nations Security Council Resolution 2094 (2013), Annex IV of Resolution 2270 (2016) and Annex III and IV
of  Resolution 2321 (2016); and
(b) any subsequent amendments to such lists immediately upon such amendments being made.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (2), the Competent Authority shall, through the Financial Intelligence
Unit, notify the financial institutions of the designated items and designated luxury items immediately upon such
items being designated by the United Nations Security Council or the Committee.
5. A person shall not cause or permit a vessel or an aircraft to be used for the purpose of carrying out the activities
specified under paragraphs (1) of regulation 4 or their use for purposes of procurement of coal under conditions
stipulated by paragraph 26 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2321 (2016), iron, iron ore, copper,
nickel, silver and zinc, or statues from the DPRK or by their nationals.
6. (1) A person in Sri Lanka or a citizen of Sri Lanka outside Sri Lanka shall not-
(a) charter or lease a vessel or an aircraft;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
3A
(b) provide crew services; or
(c) sell new helicopters or vessels,
to the DPRK, or any designated person or designated entity or individual or entity who acts on behalf of or
under the direction of a designated person or designated entity, to or for the benefit of such designated person
or designated entity; or
(2) A person in Sri Lanka or a citizen of Sri Lanka outside Sri Lanka shall not-
(a) apply to register vessels in the DPRK or obtain authorization for a vessel to use the DPRK flag;
(b) own, lease, operate any vessel flagged by the DPRK;
(c) provide any vessel classification, certification or associated service, for any vessel owned, controlled, or
operated, including through illicit means, by the DPRK; or
(d) provide insurance or re-insurance services to vessels owned, controlled, or operated, including through
illicit means, by the DPRK.
(3) Any vessel that is owned, controlled, or operated by the DPRK shall be de-registered and any such de-registered
vessel shall not be registered by another flag state.
7. A person in Sri Lanka or a  citizen of Sri Lanka outside Sri Lanka shall not-
(a) provide or receive assets, financial services, technical training, advice, services or assistance related to
the provision, manufacture, production, possession, acquisition maintenance, stockpiling, storage,
development, transportation, transfer  or use of any designated item to any person in the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea or any citizen of DPRK; or
(b) receive technical training, advice, services or assistance related to the provision, manufacture, production,
possession, acquisition, maintenance, stockpiling, storage, development, transportation, transfer or use of
any designated item from any person in the DPRK.
8. A person shall not deal with any funds, other financial assets or economic resources that belong to or are wholly
or jointly owned, held or controlled by a designated person or entity or any other person or entity acting on
behalf of or at the direction of such designated person or entity.
9. A person in Sri Lanka or a citizen of Sri Lanka outside Sri Lanka shall not make available any funds, other financial
assets and economic resources directly or indirectly to, or for the benefit of 
–
(a) any designated person;
(b) any designated entity; or
(c) any person or entity who acts on behalf of or under the direction of a designated person or designated
entity, to or for the benefit of such designated person or designated entity.
10. A person in Sri Lanka shall not –
(a) provide any financial services; or
(b) transfer financial assets or other assets or resources including bulk cash
to any person or entity, that may reasonably be used to contribute to the nuclear-related, ballistic missile-related,
other weapons of mass destruction-related programs or activities of the DPRK or to other activities prohibited
by the United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013), 2270 (2016) and 2321
(2016) or to the evasion of measures imposed by such resolutions.
11. A  person in Sri Lanka or a citizen of Sri Lanka outside Sri Lanka shall not provide public and private financial
support for trade with the DPRK including the granting of export credits, guarantees or insurance to a person
involved in trade with DPRK.
12. A person in Sri Lanka and a citizen of Sri Lanka outside Sri Lanka shall not provide bunkering services, supplies,
servicing, leasing or chartering of vessels or crew services of vessels to the DPRK.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
4A
13. A designated person or any member of the family of a designated person except such person who is a citizen
of Sri Lanka shall not enter into or transit through the territory of Sri Lanka.
14. (1) A financial institution of DPRK shall  not open new branches, subsidiaries or representative offices in Sri Lanka.
(2) A financial institution shall not establish or maintain a representative office, subsidiary or account in the territory
of DPRK.
 (3) A Sri Lankan financial institution shall not establish new joint ventures, take an ownership interest in or establish
or maintain a correspondent relationship with any financial institution of DPRK.
15. (1) The Competent Authority may recommend to the Government of Sri Lanka the expulsion of-
(a) DPRK diplomats;
(b) representatives of the DPRK government;
(c) other DPRK nationals acting in a governmental or representative office capacity;
(d) foreign nationals that are working on behalf or at the direction of a designated person or designated
entity;
(e) an individual or entity assisting in sanctions evasions or violating the resolutions;
(f) an individual working on behalf of or at the direction of a DPRK bank or financial institution for the
purpose of repatriation to the DPRK or to the individual’s state of nationality respectively:
Provided that the above measures shall not impede the transit of representative of the Government of the DPRK
to the United Nations Headquarters or other United Nations  facilities to conduct United Nations business.
(2) The Competent Authority shall not make recommendations under paragraph (1) where:-
(a) the presence of the individual is required for fulfilment of judicial process;
(b) the presence of the individual is required exclusively for medical, safety or other humanitarian purposes;
or
(c) the Committee has determined on a case-by-case basis that the expulsion of the individual is contrary
to the objectives of the resolutions.
16. The Competent Authority shall recommend to the Government of Sri Lanka to close the representative offices
of designated entities and to prohibit such entities, as well individuals or entities acting for or on their behalf,
directly or indirectly, from participating in joint ventures or any other business arrangements.
17. The Competent Authority shall exercise enhanced vigilance over DPRK diplomatic personnel so as to prevent
such individuals from contributing to or generating revenue for to the DPRK’s prohibited programmes or activities,
or to the evasion of sanctions.
18. The Competent Authority may recommend to the Government of Sri Lanka that a financial institution shall not
open or maintain more than one account for a person or entity specified below:
(a) a DPRK diplomatic mission or consular post;
(b) a DPRK diplomatic or consular officer;
(c) a person or entity owned or controlled by a person or entity in paragraphs (a) or (b);
(d) a person acting on behalf of, or at the direction of, a person or entity in paragraphs (a) or (b).

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
5A
PART III
FREEZING  AND  SEIZURE OF FUNDS etc.
19. (1)  The Competent Authority shall freeze immediately the funds, other financial assets and economic resources in
Sri Lanka, which are owned or controlled directly or indirectly by a person or entity designated by the United
Nations Security Council or the Committee (in these regulations referred to as "the designated person or
designated entity") or any person or entity who acts on behalf of or under the direction of a designated person
or entity, to or for the benefit of such designated person or entity.
(2) The Competent Authority shall freeze immediately the funds, other financial assets and economic resources in
Sri Lanka of entities of the Government of North Korea and the Korean Workers Party that the State determines
to be associated with the prohibited activities specified in Part II of these regulations.
(3) The Competent Authority shall forthwith  publish in the Gazette-
(a) the first lists of designated persons and designated entities specified in Annex I and II of United Nations
Security Council Resolution 2087 (2013), Annex I and II of Resolution 2094 (2013), Annex I and II of
Resolution 2270 (2016) and Annex I and II of Resolution 2321 (2016); and
(b) any subsequent amendments to such lists immediately upon such amendments being made.
 (4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (2), the Competent Authority shall, through the Financial Intelligence
Unit, notify the financial institutions of the designated items and designated luxury items immediately upon
such designations being done by the United Nations Security Council or the Committee.
20. The competent Authority shall freeze immediately the other resources or other financial assets or funds including
bulk cash that may reasonable be used to contribute to the nuclear-related, ballistic missile related, or other
weapons of mass destruction related programmes or activities of the DPRK.
21. The effect of an order of freezing shall be the prohibition of any move, transfer, alteration, use of or dealing
with funds, other financial assets and economic resources  in any way that would result in any change in their
volume, amount, location, ownership, possession, charter, destination or other change that would enable the
funds to be used to dealt with, including portfolio management.
Provided that such prohibition shall not apply to the crediting of a frozen account with interest or other earnings
due on such account, or payments due under contracts, agreements or obligations that were concluded or
arose before the account became a frozen account of funds transferred by a third party to the account, as long
as the funds credited are also frozen.
22. (1) Upon an application made by the Competent Authority, the High Court may make an order authorizing the
Competent Authority to search for and seize frozen funds, other financial assets and economic resources where:
(a) the seizure is necessary in order to preserve the funds, other financial assets and economic resources; or
(b) there is a reasonable risk that such funds, other financial assets and economic resources will dissipate.
(2) The Competent Authority may make an application to the High Court under paragraph (1) at the Competent
Authority’s own instigation or upon the request of the holder of such frozen funds, other financial assets and
economic resources.
(3) Where during the course of a search under an order granted under subsection (1), the Competent Authority
finds funds, other financial assets and economic resources that they believe on reasonable grounds is of a kind
which could have been included in the order has its existence been known of at the time of application of the

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
6A
order, the Competent Authority may seize that funds, other financial assets and economic resources and the
seizure order shall be deemed to authorize such seizure.
(4) Funds, other financial assets and economic resources seized under an order granted under paragraph (2) may
only be retained so long as the funds, other financial assets and economic resources remains frozen under
these regulations.
23. Upon receiving information that a person or entity in Sri Lanka or being a citizen or resident of Sri Lanka, has
been designated by the United Nations Security Council or the Committee, the Competent Authority shall make
all reasonable efforts to inform, as soon as possible after the designation, the person or entity so designated of
the fact of:-
(i) designation and its implications;
(ii) the review procedure and information on the de-listing process;
(iii) the publicly releasable information concerning the reasons for designation.
24. Any person or entity referred to in Regulation 23 may apply to the Competent Authority for assistance in seeking
a de-listing by the Committee of the designation.  The Competent Authority shall forward the request to the
Committee and act upon it in a manner consistent with the standards and procedures set out in United Nations
Security Council Resolutions that relate to the de-listing of designated persons in terms of United Nations Security
Council Resolution 1718 (2006) and aforesaid subsequent resolutions.
25. (1) The Competent Authority may, after providing notification to the Committee of his intention to do so and
complying with the Committee's requirements, grant a specific authorization to lift a prohibition in regulations 8,
9 or 10 that specific funds may be released or assets may be made available and decide on the conditions
appropriate with respect to the authorization.
(2) The authorization may be revoked or varied at any time in accordance with the Committee requirements.  The
Competent Authority shall act in accordance with the standards and procedures set out in United Nations Security
Council Resolutions 1718 (2006) and 2270 (2016) and any other United Nations Security Council resolutions that
relate to access to funds frozen pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1718 (2006) and aforesaid
subsequent resolutions.
26. (1) A person or entity claiming that he or it is not a designated person or entity may apply to the Competent Authority
requesting the issue of a certificate stating that such person or entity is not the person or entity whose name
appears on the Lists of the Committee. The Competent Authority shall, upon making such inquiries as are
appropriate in respect thereof and if it is established that the applicant is not a designated person or entity,
issue a certificate to the applicant.
(2) Where the Competent Authority decides to refuse the issue of a certificate under paragraph (1) he shall
communicate his decision to the applicant with the reasons therefore.
27. Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Competent Authority under Regulation 26 may apply
against such decision to the High Court, within thirty days of the date on which the decision is communicated
to such person or entity, for review thereof.
28. (1) Any person shall, in addition to any obligation under Regulations 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 in relation to any designated
person or entity-
(a) inform the Competent Authority or the Financial Intelligence Unit as the case may be, if he knows or
suspects that an existing customer, or customer or any other person or entity with whom he has done

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
7A
business, or any other person or entity known to him is a designated person or entity or is a person
acting on behalf of a designated person or entity;
(b) provide the Competent Authority or the Financial Intelligence Unit as the case may be with information
regarding –
(i) the status of the funds, freezing actions under Regulation 20 and 21  and any other actions taken
with respect to the funds;
(ii) the nature and amount or quantity of any funds, other  financial assets or economic resources
held by the relevant institution for the designated person or transactions executed, or held by a
person for the designated person;
(iii) any transaction or attempted transaction by or on behalf  of a designated person;
(iv) any transaction or attempted transaction in respect of frozen funds, other financial assets or
economic  resources; and
(v) any other information that would facilitate compliance with these regulations;
 (c) cooperate with the Competent Authority or the Financial Intelligence Unit as the case may be, in any
verification of this information.
(2) Any information provided or received in accordance with this regulation shall be used only for the purposes for
which it was provided or received.  Any information provided to the Competent Authority or to the Financial
Intelligence Unit in accordance with this regulation shall not be treated as a breach of any restriction imposed
by any written law or otherwise.
29. (1) Any person holding funds, other financial assets, economic resources other resources or other financial assets
or funds including bulk cash, which are subject to a freezing action under Regulation 8, 9 or 10 pursuant to an
obligation under these regulations, shall take all reasonable efforts, after the freeze has been effected, to provide
notification to the person or entity whose funds, other financial assets or economic resources have been frozen
of such freezing action and the procedures available to seek a lifting of the freeze.
 (2) The person holding the funds shall also provide immediate notification to the Financial Intelligence Unit.  The
Financial Intelligence Unit shall immediately inform the Competent Authority of such fact.
(3) The notification under paragraph (1) shall be made to the legal domicile of the affected person or entity within
two weeks of such freezing.
(4) If the person or entity affected by the freeze is domiciled outside Sri Lanka, the notice of the freezing action
shall be provided, through a request to the Competent Authority, to the Government of the country in which
the affected person is domiciled with a request that service be made.
30. Any person holding funds, other financial assets, economic resources, other resources or other financial assets
or funds including bulk cash which are subject to a freezing action under Regulation 8, 9 or 10, pursuant to an
obligation under these regulations, shall also be prohibited from providing notice at any time prior to the freezing
action, to the designated person that his or its funds, other financial assets or economic resources are to be
frozen or assets are not being made available.
31. The Competent Authority may in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, grant a specific
authorization, under such condition as he deems appropriate in order to prevent financing of nuclear-related,
ballistic missile-related, or other weapons of mass destruction-related programs or activities of the DPRK, to
permit;
(a) the use of frozen funds or the provision of other assets for essential human needs of a natural person included
in paragraphs (2) and (3) of Regulation 19 or a member of his family, including in particular payments for foodstuff,
medicines, the rent or mortgage for the family residence and fees and charges concerning medical treatment of
members of that family.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
8A
(b) payments from frozen accounts or the provision of other assets for the following purposes:
(i) payment of taxes, compulsory insurance premiums and fees for public utility service such as gas, water,
electricity and telecommunications ;
(ii) payment of charges due to a financial institutions for the maintenance of accounts ;
(iii) payment of expenses associated with the provision of legal services, or fees or service charges for
routine holding or maintenance of frozen funds or other financial assets or economic resources.
32. (1) Where there is information that provides reasonable grounds to believe that the cargo of a vessel or an aircraft
to or from DPRK which is in the Sri Lankan territory including seaports and airports contains any designated
item or any designated luxury item in contravention of Regulation 4 or 5, the Competent Authority shall refer
such information to the relevant law enforcement authorities for inspection of such vessel or aircraft.
(2) Where any vessel has refused to allow inspection under paragraph (1), such vessel shall be denied entry into
any Sri Lankan port unless entry is required for the purpose of inspection, on the case of an emergency or in
the case of return to the port of origination.
(3) The Competent Authority shall refer to the relevant law enforcement authorities for inspection all cargo within
or transiting through Sri Lanka, including airports, that has originated in the DPRK, or that is destined for the
DPRK, or has been brokered or facilitated by the DPRK or its nationals, or by individuals or entities acting on
their behalf or at their direction, or entities owned or controlled by them, or by designated individuals or entities,
or that is being transported on DPRK flagged aircraft.
(4) The Competent Authority shall refer to the relevant law enforcement authorities for inspection all DPRK flagged
aircrafts when they land in or take off from Sri Lanka to ensure no designated item or designated luxury item
is transferred, in a manner that minimizes the impact of cargo transfer when it is for humanitarian purposes.
33. It shall be the duty of such law enforcement authority to inspect such cargo, aircrafts and vessels referred to in
Regulation 32.
34. (1) Any person who contravenes the provisions of Regulations 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 shall be guilty of an
offence under these regulations and shall, on conviction by the High Court, be liable to imprisonment for a
period not less than two years and not exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding rupees one million or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person who fails to comply with the requirements set out in Regulation 28 or 29 of these regulations shall
be guilty of an offence under these regulations and shall on conviction by the High Court, be liable to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand or
both such fine and imprisonment.
  35. (1) The Minister may, from time to time, in consultation with the Minister assigned with the subject of Defence and
on the recommendation of the Competent Authority, propose to the Committee, the designation of-
(a) any natural person, whom the Competent Authority has reasonable grounds to believe to be associated
with any designated person or entity;
(b) any legal person or entity, which the Competent Authority has reasonable grounds to believe to be
associated with any designated person or entity;
(c) any legal person or entity which is  owned or controlled directly or indirectly by one or more natural or
legal persons or entities referred  to in sub paragraph ( a) or ( b) above;
(d) any natural or legal person or entity acting on behalf of, or on the direction of, one or more natural or
legal persons or entities referred to in sub paragraph ( a) or ( b) above; and
(e) any entity of the Government of DPRK and the Korean Workers Party that the Competent Authority
determines are associated with prohibited activities.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
9A
(2) A proposal for designation under paragraph (1), shall be based upon precise information or material from any
relevant source in respect of the persons and entities concerned, irrespective of the existence of a criminal
investigation or proceedings pending against such persons and entities concerned.
(3) The Competent Authority shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that names of natural or legal persons or
entities which are proposed to be designated under paragraph (1), have sufficient particulars appended to permit
effective and accurate identification of such natural or legal persons or entities.
(4) The Competent Authority shall cause the names, designated by the Committee and published in the Lists of
designations persons or entities consequent to any proposal made by the Minister, to be reviewed at regular
intervals and at least once every year in order to ensure that there are grounds for retaining or removing such
names from the Lists of designations persons or entities or to update information connected with such names.
(5) Where it is revealed upon reviewing the names under paragraph (4) that retention of any name in the Lists of
designations persons or entities is not further necessary, the Minister shall propose to the Committee the removal
of such name from such Lists.
(6) Where there is a need to update any information relating to any designated person included in the Lists of
designations persons or entities, the Minister shall communicate such information to the Committee.
(7) Where the Minister -
(a) proposes a name to be designated, under paragraph (1);
(b) proposes to remove any name from the Lists of designations persons or entities under paragraph (5);
(c) communicates any information in order to update any information, under paragraph (6), the Minister
shall follow the procedure and standard forms adopted by the Committee for such purpose.
(8) No person shall at any time prior to the making of a proposal for designation, provide notice to the person or
entity that such person or entity is being proposed or is being considered for such proposal.
36. (1) The Competent Authority, Financial Intelligence Unit and the Minister shall refer any matter or information relevant
to violation or possible violation of an obligation under these regulations to the appropriate law enforcement
agencies and in the case of institutions, also to their respective supervisory authorities for consideration whether
or not the administrative sanctions ought to be imposed.
(2) The Competent Authority shall consult with law enforcement agencies, the Financial Intelligence Unit, supervisory
authorities and other appropriate agencies and develop a plan that shall be implemented for monitoring compliance
and enforcing sanctions related to these regulations.
(3) The Competent Authority may issue directives for the implementation of practices and enforcement of obligations
under these regulations.
(4) The Competent Authority may consult, and solicit information from, any person or Government institution in
giving effect to the provisions of these regulations.
37. For the purpose of these regulations-
"arms and related material" includes:
(a) weapons;
(b) ammunition;
(c) military vehicles and equipment, including:
(i) battle tanks;
(ii) armoured combat vehicles;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
10A
(iii) large calibre artillery systems;
(iv) combat aircraft;
(v) attack helicopters;
(vi) warships; and
(vii) missiles and missile systems,
which have the same meanings as they have for the purposes of reports by member States to the
United Nations Register of Conventional Arms established under United Nations General Assembly
Resolution A/RES/46/36L of 6 December 1991;
(d) spare parts and accessories for the items mentioned in paragraphs ( a) to ( c); and
(e) paramilitary equipment, including:
(i) batons, clubs, riot sticks, tear gas, and similar devices and riot control agents of a kind used for
law enforcement purposes;
(ii) body armour, bullet resistant apparel and helmets;
(iii) handcuffs, l eg-irons and other devices used for restraining prisoners;
(iv) riot protection shields;
(v) whips; and
(vi) parts and accessories designed or adapted for use in, or with, equipment mentioned in
subparagraphs (i) to (vi);
"asset" means funds, property, financial resources and economic resources of every kind, whether
tangible or intangible, corporeal or incorporeal, moveable or immovable, actual or potential, however
acquired and which potentially may be used to obtain funds, goods, or services, such as vessels
(including maritime vessels) as well as legal documents or instruments in any form, including
electronic or digital, evidencing title to, or interest in, or right to claim such asset, including currency,
bank credits, deposits, travellers cheques, bank cheques, money orders, shares, securities, bonds,
drafts, and letters of credit; and any interest, dividends, income or value accruing from, generated
by or derived from such asset;
 "Committee" means the Committee established pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution
1718 (2006);
"correspondent banking relationship" means a relationship that involves the provision of banking
business services by one financial institution (the correspondent) to another financial institution
(the respondent) where:
(a) the correspondent carries on banking business at or through a permanent place of business in
one country; and
(b) the respondent carries on banking business at or through a permanent place of business in another
country; and
(c) the relationship between the correspondent and the respondent relates, in whole or in part, to the
provision of banking services between those permanent places of business;
"DPRK financial institution" means a person or entity that conducts an activity listed in Paragraphs (a)
to (m) of the definition of financial institution and that is:

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
11A
(a)  regulated, registered, incorporated or licensed under any law of DPRK;
(b) owned or controlled by the DPRK; or
(c) a financial institution in which the DPRK or any of its nationals maintains an interest; or a subsidiary
of any such financial institution;
 "entity" includes:
(a) a body corporate or unincorporate, a trust, a partnership, a fund, or an organization; and
(b) a maritime vessel.
"Financial Intelligence Unit" means the Financial Intelligence Unit established under the Financial Transactions
Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006;
"Financial institution" means any person or entity that conducts in Sri Lanka any of the following activities
for or on behalf of a customer:
(a) acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public, including private banking;
(b) lending, including, consumer credit, mortgage credit, factoring (with or without recourse), and
financing of commercial transactions, including forfeiting;
(c) financial leasing other than in respect of arrangements relating to consumer products;
(d) the transfer of currency or value;
(e)  issuing or managing means of payment including, credit and debit cards, cheques, travellers’
cheques, money orders and bankers’ drafts, and currency in non-physical form;
(f) issuing financial guarantees or commitments;
(g) trading in:
(i) bearer negotiable instruments;
(ii) foreign exchange;
(iii) exchange, interest rate or index instruments;
(iv)  tra nsferable securities; or
(v) commodity futures trading;
(h) participation in securities issues or the provision of financial services related to such issues;
(i) individual or collective portfolio management;
(j) safekeeping or administration of physical currency, bearer negotiable instruments or liquid securities
on behalf of other persons;
(k) investing, administering or managing assets on behalf of other persons;
(l) underwriting or placement of insurance, including insurance intermediation by agents and brokers;
or
(m) currency changing;
"frozen asset" means an asset which cannot be dealt with due to a prohibition imposed by these regulations;
"funds, other financial assets and economic resources" shall include assets of every kind, whether tangible
or intangible, movable or immovable, actual or potential, which potentially may be used to obtain
funds, goods or services including vessels, however acquired and legal documents or instruments
in any form, including electronic or digital, evidencing title to, or interest in, such assets, including,

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
12A
but not limited to, bank credits, travellers’ cheques, bank cheques, money orders, shares, securities,
bonds, drafts and Letters of Credit including-
(i) all interest, dividends or other income or value securing from or generated by such
funds, assets or economic resources; and
(ii)  indirectly owned funds, assets or economic resources.
"High Court" means the High Court established under Article 154P of the Constitution, for the Western
Province holden in Colombo;
"institution" shall have the same meaning as in the Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006
"interest in" means having control or ownership (directly or indirectly) of a financial institution;
"Minister" means the Minister to whom the subject of External Affairs has been assigned;
"person" shall have the same meaning as in the Interpretation Ordinance (Chapter 2);
"weapons of mass destruction" means items, materials, equipment, goods, or technology:
(a) listed in the following documents:
(i) S/2006/814;
(ii) S/2006/815;
(iii) S/2006/853;
(iv) S/2006/853/CORR.1;
(v) S/2009/205;
(vi) S/2013/136;
(vii) INFCIRC/254/Rev.9/Part 1a;
(viii) INFCIRC/254/Rev.7/Part 2a; or
(ix) Annex III to United Nations Security Council Resolution 2321;
(b) that could contribute to DPRK’s nuclear-related, ballistic missile-related or weapons of mass
destruction-related programmes and are the subject of a determination:
(i) made by the United Nations Security Council or its Committees; and
(ii) made under Paragraph 8(a)(ii) of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1718;
and
(iii) that has not ceased to have effect;
(c) that are dual-use conventional arms and are the subject of a determination made under
paragraph 7 of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2321; or
(d) that could contribute to weapons of mass destruction-related programmes and are prohibited
in the United Nations Security Council Regulations.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA – 06.10.2017
13A
SCHEDULE I (Regulation 4(1)(a) )
1. Arms or related materiel;
2. Weapons of mass destruction;
3. Ballistic missile-related goods;
4. Any item, materials, equipment, goods or technology that could contribute to the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic
missile programmes, activities prohibited in United Nations Security Council Resolutions referred to in Regulation
2 or any subsequent resolutions or activities that could contribute to the operational capabilities of DPRK armed
forces or to exports that support or enhance the operational capabilities of armed forces of another Member
State outside the DPRK;
5. Conventional arms dual-use items including those listed in S/2016/1069 of 15 December 2016 (conventional arms
dual-use items control list);
6. Aviation fuel prohibited in the United Nations Security Council Resolutions referred to in Regulation 2;
7. Any other items prohibited in the United Nations Security Council Resolutions referred to in Regulation 2.
SCHEDULE II
(Regulation 4(1)(b))
1. Arms and related material;
2. Weapons of mass destruction;
3. Ballistic missile-related goods;
4. Items, materials, equipment, goods or technology that could contribute to the operational capabilities of DPRK
armed forces or to exports that support or enhance the operational capabilities of armed forces of another Member
State outside the DPRK;
5. Coal, iron, or iron ore (subject to specific exemptions) ;
6. Gold, titanium ore, vanadium ore, copper, silver, nickel, or zinc;
7. Rare earth minerals prohibited by the United Nations Security Council Resolutions referred to in Regulation 2;
8. Any shipment of conventional arms or related items for repair, servicing, refurbishing, testing, reverse-engineering,
and marketing, regardless of whether ownership or control is transferred;
9. Conventional arms dual-use items including those listed in S/2016/1069 of 15 December 2016 (conventional
arms dual-use items control list).
10. Aviation fuel, including aviation gasoline, naptha-type jet fuel, kerosene-type fuel and kerosene-type rocket
fuel, whether or not originating in their territory to the territory of the DPRK except with respect to the sale or
supply of aviation fuel to civilian passenger aircraft exclusively for consumption during its flight to the DPRK
and its return flight;
11. Technical training, advice, services or assistance related to the provision, manufacture, maintenance or use of
the items described above.
12. materials, software, machinery, technology, and tools to be used for the manufacture of the items described
above;
13. Any other items prohibited in the United Nations Security Council Resolutions referred to in Regulation 2.
15.09.2017
10-630
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.