

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 6.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February12,  2009
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 09th February, 2010]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
MALIGAWATTA  JANAZA  AND  WELFARE
SOCIETY  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  NO . 5 OF  2010

<!-- page 2 -->

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2010
1
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Maligawatta
Janaza and
Welfare Society.
[Certified on 09th February 2010]
L. D.—O. (Inc.) 12/2007
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MALIGAWATTA  JANAZA  AND
W ELFARE  SOCIETY
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Maligawatte Janaza and Welfare Society” has heretofore been
formed at Colombo for the purpose of effectually carrying out
all objects and matters connected with the said association
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Maligawatta Janaza and
Welfare Society (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2010.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society (hereinafter referred
to as the “Society”) and such other persons as shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the “Maligawatta
Janaza and Welfare Society” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued with
full power and authority to have and use a common seal and
to alter the same at its will and pleasure..
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide financial assistance in the event of the
death of a member to the beneficiaries nominated
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2010
2
by such member for the purpose of meeting the
Janaza expenses ;
(b) to promote thrift among the membership ;
(c) to make contributions for the welfare of the Muslim
community of Maligawatte ;
(d) to bury bodies of Muslims which remain unclaimed
at Government hospitals ;
(e) to foster inter-communal amity ;
(f) to encourage the practical observance of Islam
among Muslims ;
(g) to organize programmes for the Muslim community
focusing on education, social upliftment, co-
operative enterprise, health and livelihood
programmes.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required for
the purposes of the Corporation :
(b) to borrow or raise money for the purpose of the
Corporation ;
(c) to make, draw, accepts, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close bank
accounts ;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purpose of the Corporation, in such  manner as the
Committee may think fit ;
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2010
3
(e) to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donations
and gifts of all kinds ;
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or body of persons ;
(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratituties
as may be determined by the Corporation ;
(h) to appoint sub-committees to carry out the objects
of the Corporation ; and
(i) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
or expedient for the  carrying out of the objects of
the Corporation.
5. (1) The administration and management of the affairs
of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of this Act
and rules of the Corporation made under section 7, be vested
in the Committee of Management (hereinafter referred to as
the “Committee”) consisting of a President, Vice President,
General Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer, Assistant
Treasurer and five other Committee members as may be
provided for in such rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) In the event of any vacancy arising in the Committee
due to resignation, removal or death of any office bearer,
such vacancy shall be filled according to the rules of the
Corporation.
(3) The first Committee of the Corporation shall consist
of the members of the Committee of the Society holding
office on the day preceding the date of commencement of
this Act.
6. (1) The Corporation shall have a Board of Trustees
consisting of all the past Presidents, Secretaries and founder
members who are presently engaged in the activities of the
Society.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Board of
Trustees.

<!-- page 5 -->

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2010
4
(2) The President, General Secretary and Treasurer
appointed under section 5 shall be the ex-officio members of
the Board of Trustees.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make rules which are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election, resignation, vacation or removal of
office bearers ;
(c) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
office bearers, agents and officers and servants of
the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be observed at the summoning and
holding of meeting of the Corporation and any sub
committee, the time, place, notice and agenda of
such meetings, the quorum  therefor and the conduct
of business, thereat ;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the custody of its funds ;
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its
objects.
(2) Any rule of the Corporation may be amended, altered,
added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as
a rule made under subsection (1).
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2010
5
(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monies heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift, bequest,
testamentary disposition, transfer, contribution, donations,
subscription, fees or grants for and on account of the
Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporation
in one or more banks as the Committee shall determine.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund any expenditure
incurred by the Corporation in the exercise, performance and
discharge of the powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be kept
of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all
other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor who shall be an associate member of the
Chartered Institute of Sri Lanka and appointed by the
Corporation for that purpose.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules made under section 7, shall have full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2010
6
11. All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable to
the Society on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among members of the Corporation, but shall be
given or transferred to some other association or associations
having objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation and
which is or are by the rules prohibited from the distribution
of any income or profit among its or their  members. Such
association or associations shall be determined by the
members of the Corporation at or immediately before the
time of dissolution of the Corporation.
13. The moneys and property of the Corporation,
howsoever derived, shall be applied solely, towards the
promotion of its objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of divident or profits to the members of the Corporation.
14. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation, or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount payable as membership fees as  may
be due from him to the Corporation.
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the
custody of the Secretary and may be altered in such manner
as may be determined by the Committee
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the President
and the General Secretary who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Society.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Application of
moneys and
property of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2010
7
16. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or corporation.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 9 -->

Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society
(Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2010
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWETHA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th  December
  each year in respect of the year following.