

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1956$16 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 01 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2016'03'01
No. 1956/16  -  TUESDAY  MARCH 01,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
THE  SERVICE  MINUTE  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA  EDUCATION   ADMINISTRATIVE   SERVICE  -
AMENDMENT  No.  1
THE Public Service Commission has declared that the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service,
published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1928/28 of 21st August 2015 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, be amended as follows :
H. M. G AMINI SENEVIRA THNA,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
01st of March 2016.
7.2.1.1 (a) is hereby amended as follows :
a. Recruitement to the General Cadre
Must hold a degree obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or an
institution recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institution.
7.2.1.1 (b) is hereby amended as follows :
b. Recruitment to the Special Cadre
(Information Technology and Bio-systems Technology)
Must hold a degree in the prescribed subject in respect of the subjects of Information Technology and
Bio-systems Technology from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or an
instituion recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institution.
7.2.1.1 (c) is hereby amended as follows :
c. Recruitment to the Special Cadre
(Engineering Technology Subject)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 16'03'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.03.2016
2A
Must hold and engineering degree in any of the fields of Mechanical, Construction, Electrical and
Electronic from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or an institution recognized
by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institution or the four-year Higher National
Diploma in Engineering (HNDE) awarded by the Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technology or the
four-year Diploma in Engineering Science (NDES) awarded by the Institute of Engineering Technology,
Katunayake.
7.3.2.1(a)(i) is hereby amended as follows :
(a) General Cadre
Educational qualifications
(i) Must be teacher holding a degree obtained from  a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission or an institution recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding
institution or National Institute of Education.
7.3.2.1(b)(i) is hereby amended as follows :
(b) Special Cadre
(i) Educational Qualifications
Must be a teacher holding a degree in the prescribed subject, obtained from a university recognized by
the University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the University Grants Commission as
a degree awarding institution or National Institute of Education.
Line 15 of Schedule b titled “technology” (including Bio-systems Technology and Engineering Technology) is amended
as follows :
Subject Area Qualifications for Recruitment
15. Technology
(i) Bio-systems Technology Holding a degree in Agricultural Science or the Trained Teacher’s Certificate
or the National Diploma in Teaching in Home Science, Agricultural Science,
Handicraft and Life Skills.
(ii) Engineering Technology A degree in Technology obtained from a recognized university or an institution
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institution
for the subject of Engineering Technology or an Engineering Degree in any of
the fields of Mechanical, Construction, Electrical and Electronic obtained from
a recognized university or an institution recognized by the University Grants
Commission as a degree awarding institution or the four-year Higher National
Diploma in Engineering (HNDE) awarded by the Sri Lanka Institution of
Advanced Technology or the three-year National Diploma in Technology (NDT)
awarded by the University of Moratuwa or the four-year Diploma in Engineering
Science awarded by the Institute of Engineering Technology, Katunayake or the
Diploma in Technology (DT) awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka or
the Higher Diploma awarded by the institutes approved by the Tertiary and
V ocational Education Commission of Sri Lanka, which is equivalent to Level 6
of the National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ Level 6)
03-426
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.