

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
GLOBAL  HUMANITARIAN  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 199]
————————
Presented by Hon. Udith Lokubandara M. P. for Badulla District
on 08th January, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on December 03, 2012)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2-2d
2-PL 003560 - 850 (01/2009)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Global  Humanitarian  Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Global Humanitarian Foundation
(Incorporation)
2—PL 006894—  850 (01/2013)
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  GLOBAL  HUMANITARIAN
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Global
Humanitarian Foundation” has heretofore been formed for
the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
objects and matters  connected with the said Association
according to the rules agreed to by its Directors:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as The Global Humanitarian
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Global Humanitarian Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as
“the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Global
Humanitarian Foundation” and by that name may sue and be
sued in all Courts, with full power and authority to have, and
use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
(a) the development of acquaintance as an opportunity
for service taking an active interest in the Civic,
Economical, Educational, Religious Cultural, Social
and Moral Welfare of the community;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the Global
Humanitarian
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Global Humanitarian Foundation
(Incorporation)
(b) high ethical standards in business and professions;
the recognition of the worthiness of all useful
occupations and the dignifying of each Foundation
member’s occupation as an opportunity to serve
society;
(c) the application of the ideal of service in each
Foundation member’s personal, business and
community life;
(d) the advancement of international understanding,
goodwill and peace through a world fellowship of
business and professional persons united in the ideal
of service;
(e) developmet and encouragement of religious
harmony through community service orientation;
(f) open discussion of all matters of public interest;
(g) to do all such acts and things as may be necessary
for the accomplishment of all or any of the objects
of the Corporation;
(h) to aid and assist any person to engage himself in
any Industry, Trade or Import or Export business to
establish and maintain any Agricultural, Industrial
or Commercial “Ventures”, to provide programmes
to successfully train persons in technical skills and
to organize propaganda works;
(i) to establish local and international Branches to
realize the objects of the Corporation.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of members not less than five and not
more than nine in number. Dr. Mervyn Dhanawardhana
Guruge shall be the founder Executive President and life
Executive President of the Corporation. Shaminda
Dhanawardhana Guruge and Indika Dhanawardhana Guruge
shall be Vice Presidents for life.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Global Humanitarian Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) The Board of  Directors holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act consisting of the members whose names are mentioned
in the Schedule to this Act shall be the first Board of Directors
of the Corporation. Except for the holder of office of the
Executive President and the Vice President, the term of
Office of the others shall be 3 years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have power to do, perform
and execute all such acts, matters and things whatsoever as
are necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance
of the objects of the Corporation or any one of them including
the power to appoint Advisory Committees; to open, operate,
maintain and close bank accounts; to borrow or raise moneys
with or without security, to receive or collect aid and
donations; to  conduct various shows, lotteries etc. to raise
funds for the Corporation, to invest Corporation funds; to
appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services of officers
and servants of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for the
admission, withdrawal and expulsion of members and for
the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects and such rules, when made
may at a like meeting and in like manner be altered, added
to, amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subjected to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
35

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Global Humanitarian Foundation
(Incorporation)
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law
to acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9.     The seal of the  Corporation shall be in the custody of
a person to be decided by the Board of Directors and shall
not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the
presence of the President and a member of the Board of
Directors and with the approval of the Board of Directors
who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from or under
them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Global Humanitarian Foundation
(Incorporation)
SCHEDULE S ection 4(2)
The Chief Spiritual Patrons
* Most Ven. Maduluwawe Sohobitha Thero
* His Grace the Arch Bishop of Colombo Rt. Rev. Dr. Oswald
Gomis (Subjected for his Grace Consent)
 * Hindu patron
* Islam  patron
* Most Ven.Walpola Kalyanatissa Nayaka Thero -
International Religious Organizer Zurich, Switzerland.
1. Dr. Mervyn Dhanawardana Guruge - Chief Executive
President
2. Mr. Shaminda Dhanawardana Guruge - Vice President
- Director
3. Mr. Indika Dhanawardana Guruge - Vice President
- Director
4. Miss. Aniken Catharina Henrickson - International
Organizer - Norway - Director
5. Mr. Nimal Edward Dissanayake (Retired Judge of the
Supreme Court) - Director
6. Mr. A. L. M. Fernando (Retired High Court Judge) - Director
7. Mr. Roysiri Abeygunawardana (Retired General Manager)
- Director
8. Mr. Rajapaksagedara Namal Jayatissa Rajapakse (General
Manager) - Director
9. Mr. Quintus Rodrigo J. P. (Media Consultant & Company
Director ) - Director

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Global Humanitarian Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .