

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  02.11.2023
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2356$29 - 2023 fkdjeïn¾ ui 02 jeks n%yiam;skaod  - 2023'11'02
No.  2356/29  -  thursdA y,  November  02,   2023
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
 seal Ranil WickRemesinghe
1A - G 40656 — 361 (11/2023)
Proclamations & C., by the President 
P. s. No. : Ps/CsA/00/4/7/1
BY    HON.   RANIL    WICkREmESINGHE
PRESIDENT    Of   THE   DEmOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPuBLIC   Of   SRI   LANkA
to :
hon. Justice Wewage Priyasath Gerard dep esquire, PC -  retired Chief Justice
suntharam Arumainayaham esquire
senanayake Alisandaralage esquire
Nalin Jayantha Abeysekara esquire, PC
rajitha Naveen Christopher senaratna Perera esquire
Ahamed Lebbe mohamed saleem esquire
madam sagarica delgoda
madam esther sriyani Nimalka Fernando
v itharanage deepani samantha rodrigo esquire

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  02.11.2023
2A
GreetINGs !
WhereAs, in terms of the provisions of section 2 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act, No. 17 of 1948  I, ranil Wickremesinghe, 
President of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka, have by warrant dated 15th october 2023, appointed you to the 
Commission to obtain information, investigate, inquire into and report on making recommendations for the amendment of 
election laws, upon examination of existing election laws, formulation of media standards for the appropriate use of media 
by political parties and independent groups, introduction of a code of conduct for political parties, independent groups and 
their membership in performing political and public affairs, and strengthening of laws and regulations related to registration 
of political parties and their operations in a manner that elicits trust and public accountability;
AND WHEREAS, multiparty democracy is a vital infrastructure of Parliamentary democracy because of fulfilling 
the intermediate role between the citizens and the state by participating and forming peoples political opinions;
ANd WhereAs, credible political parties are a prerequisite for the exercise of franchise by the people as enshrined 
in the 1978 Constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka;
AND WHEREAS, rapid escalation of financial costs of election campaigns including elections have resulted in 
growing concerns on the role of money in politics and possibilities in policy capture;
ANd WhereAs, there is a growing concern of criminal elements entering political parties;
ANd WhereAs, stable political parties are being replaced by short term political fronts contributing to instability 
in politics;
ANd WhereAs, it is necessary to establish and maintain at all times a mutual trust between the sri Lankan 
electorate and Political Parties;
ANd WhereAs, it is necessary for reforms to ensure the transparency and the accountability of political parties 
to the electors having regard to the laws and practices of other countries including establishing legal criteria for granting and 
cancelling the recognition of political parties, thereby regaining the confidence of the people;
ANd WhereAs, a number of globally reputed organisations including the Inter Parliamentary union have 
specified criteria for the transparency and accountability of political parties;
ANd WhereAs, I am of the view that it is necessary to expand the scope of the mandate of the Commission of 
Inquiry appointed by warrant in terms of section 2 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act, No. 17 of 1948 and published in 
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2354/06 dated 16th october 2023;
AND WHEREAS, I have identified that the number of Commissioners currently holding office is not adequate to 
more efficiently and speedily execute the functions of the Commission which has been vested with an enhanced role;
NoW thereFore, I, ranil Wickremesinghe, President of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka, do 
in pursuance of the provisions of section 3 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act, by these presents, appoint Alan Carmichael 
Vere David Esquire, reposing great trust and confidence in his prudence, ability and fidelity, to be the Commissioner of the 
Commission of Inquiry constituted in terms of the Warrant referred to above.  
ANd, I ranil Wickremesinghe, President of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka do hereby direct 
you, Commissioners of the said Commission of Inquiry appointed in pursuance of provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the 
Commission of Inquiry Act, No. 17 of 1948 as amended,

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  02.11.2023
3A
 1. hon. Justice Wewage Priyasath Gerard dep esquire, PC -  retired Chief Justice
 2. suntharam Arumainayaham esquire
 3. senanayake Alisandaralage esquire
 4. Nalin Jayantha Abeysekara esquire, PC
 5. rajitha Naveen Christopher senaratna Perera esquire
 6. Ahamed Lebbe mohamed saleem esquire
 7. madam sagarica delgoda
 8. madam esther sriyani Nimalka Fernando
 9. v itharanage deepani samantha rodrigo esquire
      10.  Alan Carmichael v ere david esquire
      to obtain and submit information, investigate, inquire into, and report on the following matters, namely;
 1. examine all existing election laws and regulations and make necessary recommendations for the amendment of 
election laws to suit current needs, giving special consideration to following factors as well. 
 i. Increase women and youth representation.
 ii. reduce the period between the time of declaration of an election and the release of results after conducting 
such election.
 iii. Provide an opportunity for electronic voting using modern technology instead of the printed ballot paper. 
 iv. Provide facilities for voting by sri Lankans in overseas. 
 v. enable a person to contest elections for both Provincial Councils and Parliament for the selection of people’s 
representatives and have the opportunity to represent Provincial Councils and the Parliament at the same time 
if elected  (eg. to give an opportunity for a person elected to Parliament to also contest a Provincial Council 
election, and if elected, have the opportunity to represent the Provincial Councils and Parliament at the same 
time).
 vi. Provide an opportunity for voters serving in Public Corporations/ state owned enterprises/ Private sector, 
who are engaged in provision of election related services on election day, to use postal voting.
 vii. Formulate an appropriate mechanism blended with the first-past-the-post voting system for the election of 
people’s representatives, not limiting to the proportional representation system, but taking into consideration 
the plural nature of society, and reflecting such plural characteristics. 
 2. make recommendations for the formulation of media standards for the appropriate use of media by political parties 
and independent groups.
 3. make recommendations for the introduction of a code of conduct for political parties, independent groups and their 
membership in performing political and public affairs.
 4. make recommendations for the strengthening of laws and regulations related to registration of political parties and 
their operations in a manner that elicits trust and public accountability.
 5. make recommendations including proposed legislation on following factors;
 i. strengthening the multi party system of sri Lanka based on credible and stable political parties similar to 
other multi party democracies
 ii. the role of money in politics and prevention of policy capture, as well as public funding of political parties
 iii. the a ccountability of the leadership to the members of the political parties

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA -  02.11.2023
4A
 iv. the reduction of the expenditure incurred on election campaigns
 v. the role of the political parties in strengthening national unity by promoting cooperation and mutual 
confidence among all sections of the people
 vi. the promotion of policy based political parties by having the following factors as the objectives
 a. safeguarding the sovereignty and independence of sri Lanka
 b. political and economic stability
 c. a sri Lankan identity and
 d. raising the social and economic standards of the people by transformation  into a developed economy
Given at Colombo under the seal of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka on this 02nd day of November 
two thousand and t wenty three.
                                by order of the hon. President,
 e. m. s. B. e kanayake , 
 secretary to the President.
eoG  11 -  0026
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.