

<!-- page 1 -->

151 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
Part II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
wxl 1"737 - 2011 foieïn¾ ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'12'16
No. 1,737– FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE PAGE
Laws ... —
Bills ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
Notifications of Criminal Sessions of the Supreme Court —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... 152
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries ... 152
Miscellaneous Notices ... 155
151
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd December, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th
December, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
N.B.— Parts I-II (A)  of the Gazette No. 1,736 of  09.12.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

152  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
Part II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
Notices of Fiscals’ Sales
DISTRICT  COURT  OF  COLOMBO
Public Auction Sale by Fiscal
Paduwawala Kankanamage Sumithra
Paduwawala
No. 44, Belummahara,
Mudungoda.
...........................................................plaintiff.
Vs.
1. Paduwawala Kankanamage Gunatissa
Paduwawala, No. 23, Perakum Mawatha,
Jayanthipura, Battaramulla
2. Paduwawala Kankanamage Gamini
Paduwawala, No. 44, Belummahara,
Mudungoda
.........................................................Defendants.
In pursuant to the letter of commission to sell property issued to
me in the above numbered case, in the District Court of Colombo,
it is hereby notified to the relevent parties of the aforementioned
case and the General Public that I shall sell by Public Auction the
undermentioned property, morefully described in the Schedule given
below, at 11.30 a. m. on 22nd December, 2011 at the site.
02. This property has been estimated by an authorized
assessor, to the value of Rs. 65,509,900 (Rupees Sixty
Five Million, Five Hundred and Nine Thousand and Nine
Hundred), and this amount will be considered as the
MInimum Bid in executing the auction sale.
03. The successul purchaser should pay in cash, 25% of the
Sale Price, immediately the auction is finalized, and the
balance should be paid within 30 days thereof.
04. Payments to be made to Local Government Institutions,
and the fees of fiscal duties and other payments prescribed
by the Government should be paid on the date of auction
itself.
Schedule
All that defined and divided allotment of the land called
Kahatagahawatta, amalgamated land of Plot No. R. 18, and another
1 portion of land called Kahatagahawatta, situated in Kudirippuwa,
of the Gampattu of Pitigal Koralaya, in the District of Chilaw, in
the North Western Province, and as per the Plan of said amalgamated
land, bearing No. 4172, dated 01st February, 1951 made by Licensed
Surveyor, Mr. W. I. Vincent Fernando, and the said land is bounded
on the North by land presently owned by C. A. Dias and formerly
owned by Mr. J. de Mel, and on the the East by Gam Sabha road
and the land owned by C. E. Amarasinge and on the South by
Mahak Road leading to Kurunegala from Madampe, and on the
West by land owned by the heirs to properties of T. M. Appuhamy,
in extent of Four acres, two roods, and Eleven Perches (04A., 02R.
& 11P .) and registered under M 174/39 and the said land
Kahatagahawatta was re-surveyed by the LIcensed Surveyor, Mr.
R. A. Chandraratna, as per the Plan bearing No. 1289/88 dated 10th
July, 1988 and the newly re-surveyed land is bounded on the North
by land formerly owned by C. E. A. dias, and presently owned by
Nicholas Gabriel Silva and others, on the East by the Gamsabha
Road, and the land beloging to D. E. Amarasinghe, on the sourh by
the Main road leading to Kurunegala from Madampe, and on the
West by the Land owned by the heirs to the properties of
T. M. Appuhamy and in extent of four Acres, one rood, and Thirty
Four Perches (4A., 1R. and 34P .)and all Trees, Fruits and Buildings
and the Mill and other goods and materials, belonging to it.
J. L. P. W
ILSON,
Registrar/Deputy Fiscal,
Justic of the Peace,
District Court of Colombo.
In the District Court of Colombo,
28th November 2011.
12-590
Case No. :
6976/Special
List of Notaries
NOTARIES  ORDINANCE  (APPOINTMENT)
Under Section 11 of the Notaries Ordinance the Hon. Minister of
Public Administration and Home Affairs, has made the following
appointments :
1. Miss Watuthanthrige Arosha Subashini de Alwis of
No. 326/1A, Kumaragoda, Devalapola to be a Notary Public
throughout the Judicial Zone of Negombo and to practice as
such in the Sinhala Language.
2. Miss. Tennakoon Arachchige Nayana Nandani Tennakoon
of No. 142/A, Kotubamma Road, Ethul Kotte to be a Notary
Public throughout the Judicial Zone of Colombo and to
practice as such in the Sinhala and English Language.
3. Miss Kasthuri Arachchige Mihiri Sajeewani Karunarathna
of No. 6/1, Dabare Lane, Narahenpita, Colombo 05 to be a
Notary Public throughout the Judicial Zone of Colombo
and to practice as such in the Sinhala Language.

<!-- page 3 -->

153 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
Part II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
4. Miss Palihakoon Mudiyanselage Chandrani of No. 7,
Industrial Zone, Nawamedagama to be a Notary Public
throughout the Judicial Zone of Ampara and to practice as
such in the Sinhala and English Language.
5. Miss Kariyawasam Hewa Manage Manori Kaushalya
Kariyawasam of No. 7, Village Centre, Moraketiya,
Embilipitiya to be a Notary Public throughout the Judicial
Zone of Embilipitiya and to practice as such in the Sinhala
and English Language.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary, Sinhala
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
08th August 2011,
Colombo 07.
12-561/1
6. Miss Abeysinghe Mudiyanselage Rasika Shyamalee
Abeysinghe of No. 29/24, Visakha Lane, Colombo 04 to be a
Notary Public throughout the Judicial Zone of Colombo to
practice as such in the Sinhala Language.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary, Sinhala
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
08th August 2011,
Colombo 07.
12-561/2
NOTARIES  ORDINANCE  (APPOINTMENT)
Under Section 11 of the Notaries Ordinance the Hon. Minister of
Public Administration and Home Affairs, has made the following
appointments :
1. Miss Ekanayake Mudiyanselage Thusitha Ekanayake of
"Udataru" Molawatta, Aluthgoda, Tissa to be a Notary Public
throughout the Judicial Zone of Hambantota and to practice
as such in the Sinhala Language.
2. Miss Ekanayake Mudiyanselage Thusitha Ekanayake of
"Udataru" Molawatta, Aluthgoda, Tissa to be a Notary Public
throughout the Judicial Zone of Hambantota and to practice
as such in the English Language.
3. Miss Agampody Sudheera Darshanamalee de Silva Sirisena
of No.11/A, Siri Niwasa Mawatha, Kalutara (North) to be a
Notary Public throughout the judicial Zone of Kalutara and
to practice as such in the Sinhala Language.
4. Miss Agampody Sudheera Darshanamalee de Silva Sirisena
of No.11/A, Siri Niwasa Mawatha, Kalutara (North) to be a
Notary Public throughout the judicial Zone of Kalutara and
to practice as such in the English Language.
5. Miss Mayakaduwage Lakshmi Shyama of No. 318/A,
"Manike" Kahawatta, Beliatta to be a Notary Public throught
the Judicial Zone of Tangalla to practice as such in the Sinhala
Language.
NOTARIES  ORDINANCE  (APPOINTMENT)
Under Section 11 of the Notaries Ordinance the Hon. Minister of
Public Administration and Home Affairs, has made the following
appointments :
01. Miss Usha Nandani Sivajothi of No. 61/A, Mugalan Road,
Kirillapone to be a Notary Public throught the Judicial Zone
of Colombo and to practice as such in the English and Tamil
Languages.
02. Mrs. Kalanchige Swarna of "Tharunila", Kadurugasara
Junction, Thunkama, Embilipitiya to be a Notary Public
throught the Judicial Zone of Embilipitiya and to practice
as such in the Sinhala Language.
03. Miss Thirimana Vithanage Nayomi Piyadasa of No. 260/2,
Ketapitella Road, Halloluwa, Kandy to be a Notary Public
throughout the Judicial Zone of Kandy and to practice as
such in the Sinhala and English Languages.
04. Mrs. Mudiyanselage Anttenet Romani Thalawatta of
No. 14/8, Siri Jinarathana Road, Colombo 02 to be a Notary
Public throughout the Judicial Zone of Colombo and to
practice as such in the English Language.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
09th September,  2011,
Colombo 07.
12-561/3

<!-- page 4 -->

154  II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
Part II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
NOTARIES  ORDINANCE  (APPOINTMENT)
Under Section 11 of the Notaries Ordinance the Hon. Minister of
Public Administration and Home Affairs, has made the following
appointments :
01. Mrs. Abarna Janarthan of Sivan Kovilady, Suthumalai,
Manipay to be a Notary Public throughout the Judicial
Zone of Jaffna and to practice as such in the English and
Tamil Languages.
02. Mrs. Malporu Mudiyanselage Chamila Janadari Piyananda
of No. 333/1, Galabadawatta, Uduvila, Awissawella  to be a
Notary Public throughout the Judicial Zone of Awissawella
and to practice as such in the Sinhala Language.
03. Miss Uhanowitage Don Iresha Upamali Yasanayake of
Senior Assistant Supirintendents Quarters, Springvalley
Estate, Springvalley, Badulla to be a Notary Public
throughout the Judicial Zone of Badulla and to practice as
such in the Sinhala Language.
04. Mr. Jayaweera Muthumala Rohana Kumara of No. 239 B,
Samagi Mawatha, Wennappuwa  to be a Notary Public
throughout the Judicial Zone of Chillaw and to practice as
such in the Sinhala and English Languages.
05. Mrs. Widanage Dasitha Priyanthi of "Kolamba Gedara"
Boraluketiya, Kahanda, Angulugaha  to be a Notary Public
throughout the Judicial Zone of Galle to practice as such in
the Sinhala and English Languages.
06. Miss Gayani Chandima Welikala of No. 157/1, Pahathgama,
Hanwella  to be a Notary Public throughout the Judicial
Zone of  Awissawella to practice as such in the Sinhala
Language.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
19th September,  2011,
Colombo 07.
12-561/4
NOTARIES  ORDINANCE  (APPOINTMENT)
Under Section 11 of the Notaries Ordinance the Hon. Minister of
Public Administration and Home Affairs, has made the following
appointments :
01. Mr. Markandu Thiruvathavooran of No. 41, College Road,
Neeraviyady, Jaffna  to be a Notary Public throughout the
Judicial Zone of Jaffna and to practice as such in the English
and Tamil Languages.
NOTARIES  ORDINANCE  (APPOINTMENT)
Under Section 11 of the Notaries Ordinance the Hon. Minister of
Public Administration and Home Affairs, has made the following
appointments :
01. Mr. Senanayake Amarasinghe Mohotti Appuhamilage Lalith
Dinasiri of No. 11, Jathika Niwasa, Mailagas Junction,
Anuradhapura  to be a Notary Public throughout the Judicial
Zone of Anuradhapura and to practice as such in the Sinhala
Language.
02. Mr. Kulandaivelu Rajakulendra of Thihiri, Puloly East,
Point-Pedro to be a Notary Public throughout the Judicial
Zone of Jaffna and to practice as such in the Tamil and
English Languages.
03. Mr. Batagoda Nayakalage Dileepa Darshana of No. 97, Arch
Bishop Nikalas Markas Mawatha, Negombo  to be a Notary
Public throughout the Judicial Zone of Negombo and to
practice as such in the Sinhala Language.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
13th October,  2011,
Colombo 07.
12-561/6
02. Mrs. Randeniye Gedara Shalika Ayoni Randeniya of 425.17A,
Jaya Mawatha, Sri Vijaya Mawatha, Pelanwatta, Pannipitiya
to be a Notary Public throughout the Judicial Zone of
Colombo and to practice as such in the Sinhala Language.
03. Miss Devika Samanthi Mahawatta of No. 15, 1st Lane, Old
Kesbewa Road, Gangodawila, Nugegoda  to be a Notary
Public throughout the Judicial Zone of Colombo and to
practice as such in the Sinhala Language.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
12th October,  2011,
Colombo 07.
12-561/5

<!-- page 5 -->

155 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
Part II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
Miscellaneous Notices
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE THE  ANIMAL  WELFARE
TRUST
I, Janaka Bandara, Member of Parliament do hereby give notice
under Standing Order 48 of the Standing Orders of Parliament of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to
introduce in Parliament, a Bill entitled "An Act to Incorporate the
animal Welfare Trust".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said animal Welfare trust
which has the following general Objects :-
(a) to take appropriate steps to secure the safety, protection
and welfare of animals ;
(b) to foster kindness, compassion and responsible behaviour
towards animals ;
(c) to improve animal welfare, with a focus on rabies vaccination,
population management and veterinary care ;
(d) to provide facilities to rescue, care for, establish shelters and
rehabilitate animals ;
(e) to protect animals from torture, cruelty and ill-treatment ;
(f) to raise community awareness on animal welfare, the humane
and ethical treatment of animals and the strong link between
people and animals ;
(g) to engage in discussions with government, provincial and
local authorities to promote animal welfare measures ;
J
ANAKA BANDARA,
Member of Parliament.
12-559
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.