

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 40]
————————
Presented by Hon. Buddhika Pathirana, M. P. for Matara District
on 08th December, 2015
(Published in the Gazette on November 09, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
2-2d
2-
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
SOUTH LANKA ACADEMY FOR TERTIARY
EDUCATION AND LEADERSHIP (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the South Lanka Academy for
Tertiary Education and Leadership.
2—PL 009530—225 (12/2015)

<!-- page 2 -->

1South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education
 and Leadership (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 009317—300 (10/2015)
Preamble.
Short title.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SOUTH LANKA ACADEMY FOR
TERTIARY EDUCATION AND LEADERSHIP.
WHEREAS an Academy called and known as the
“South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education and
Leadership” has heretofore been created for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and
matters connected with the said Academy according to the
rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Academy has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the South Lanka Academy
for Tertiary Education and Leadership (Incorporation) Act,
No.    of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education and
Leadership” (hereinafter referred to as “the Academy”) or
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “South Lanka
Academy for Tertiary Education and Leadership” (herein
after referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may
sue and be sued and shall have full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
Incorporate
the South
Lanka
Academy for
Tertiary
Education
and
Leadership.

<!-- page 3 -->

South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education
 and Leadership (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be to—
(a) to assist students who prepare for government
examinations by conducting lectures, seminars and
study tours;
(b) to conduct academic lectures, seminars, exhibitions
related to intellectual development of people
executive action guidance and to organize relevant
exhibitions, educational and propaganda activities;
(c) to establish library facilities and conduct training
programs of all types in the field of mass
communication (television, radio, internet,
newspapers and publications) and maintain such
units;
(d) to assist needy students by providing them with
books and other equipment and school uniforms
and to grant scholarships to students who are in the
secondary and tertiary stage of their education;
(e) to identify the inherent talents of students and youth
at rural, district and provincial levels in areas such
as sports, literature and art and to encourage them
to excel in them by providing the required
infrastructure;
(f) to identify projects suitable for young school
leavers and assist them by carrying out such projects
with a view to training such youth to meet the
competitive demands for future employment;
(g) to assist those in need of financial and other forms
of assistance to enhance their inborn talents and
skills enabling them to engage in self-employment;
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education
 and Leadership (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(h) to extend all forms of assistance to the
differently- abled in developing their personality
and to implement all types of support programs
relevant to preschool/ early childhood education;
(i) to identify the health requirements of the people in
rural and remote areas and to conduct medical
camps and clinics in such areas and to supply
medicines to the needy through such camps and
clinics;
(j) to conduct awareness programmes for youth in order
to promote a tobacco, alcohol and a drug free society
and build a healthy, disciplined, patriotic and
human generation;
(k) to take active measures for the preservation of
environment and balanced development;
(l) to encourage the farmers, fishermen and establish
young farmers, and fishermen’s organizations;
(m) to utilize the labour of youth and adults for the
welfare of the general public and during
emergencies and national disasters;
(n) to foster and promote mutual understanding, a
spirit of national consciousness, goodwill and
friendship among the citizens of Sri Lanka and to
promote peace and harmony among the Sinhala,
Tamil, Muslim and Burgher communities in
Sri Lanka;
(o) to promote religious harmony, mutual
understanding, peaceful co-existence, spiritual
development and friendship among the people of
Sri Lanka through religious, cultural, social and
economic interactions;

<!-- page 5 -->

South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education
 and Leadership (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
(p) to conduct programmes to discuss the problems
faced by the youth in different areas in Sri Lanka
due to lack of infrastructure facilities such as
electricity, water, housing and roads and provide
amnesties to such needy people;
(q) to organize and mobilize people to deploy them in
voluntary activities in order to find solutions to
shortcomings in infrastructure;
(r) to facilitate the exchange of delegations with other
international organizations having similar objects
with a view to building friendship and
understanding between Sri Lanka and other
countries;
(s) to assemble and mobilize all groups under this
Academy with a view to promoting national
harmony and peace within Sri Lanka; and
(t) to do all such other acts, matters and things as are
incidental or conductive to the attainment of the
objectives of the corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to—
(a) open, operate and close bank accounts;
(b) borrow or raise money with or without security and
to receive or collect grants and donations;
(c) invest any funds of the Corporation which are not
immediately required for the purpose of the
Corporation in a way that may be determined by
the Committee of Management;
(d) purchase, acquire, give on lease or hire, sell or
otherwise obtain any movable or immovable
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education
 and Leadership (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
property which may be required for the purpose of
the Corporation  and which may lawfully be
acquired for those purposes and to deal with or
dispose of the same, as it may deem expedient with
a view to promoting the objects of the Corporation;
(e) appoint, employ and dismiss the employees
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation and pay them such remuneration as
may be determined by the Corporation;
(f) enter into, perform or carry out, whether directly or
through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf of the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects of the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation;
(g) appoint, advisory councils, committees or sub
committees as and when necessary to carry out any
functions of the Corporation as may be determined
by the Committee Management.
5. (1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall be subject to the rules of the Corporation, be done by a
Committee of Management consisting of not more than six
office bearers inclusive of the Chirman / Managing Director,
Sectary, Trasura and such number of members as may  be
provided or in rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) No act or proceeding of the Committee of Management
shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of a vacancy among its members or any defect on the election
or nomination of a member thereof.
(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Committee of Management holding office
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education
 and Leadership (Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
20
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act and shall continue to hold office until a new
Committee of Management is elected in accordance with
the rules made under section 6 of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present to make rules not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any other
written law, on all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of members and the admission,
resignation or expulsion of members;
(b) the election of the office-bearers, the resignation
from, vacation of or removal from office of office-
bearers, and their powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Committee of
Management and its powers, duties and conduct
and the terms of office of members of the Committee
of Management;
(d) the powers, duties, functions and conduct of the
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Committee of
Management, the times, places, notices and agenda
of such meetings, the quorum thereof and the
conduct of business thereat;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation the custody of its funds, and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the Corporation,
and the accomplishment of its objects.
Rules of the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education
 and Leadership (Incorporation)
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added or rescinded at a like meeting and in the like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. The Secretary of the Committee of Management shall
keep and maintain a register containing the names of the
members of the Corporation.
8. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property both movable and immovable, which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purpose of  this Act and subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 6, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monies heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, grants, donations or contributions
or fees on behalf of the Corporation shall be deposited to the
credit of the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks
as the Committee of Management may determine.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation in
the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act.
(4) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
Register of
the members
of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
movable and
immovable
property.
Fund of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education
 and Leadership (Incorporation)
8
10. All debts and liabilities of the Academy existing on
the day proceeding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Academy on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
11. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount due from such member as membership
fees.
12.  (1) The Corporation shall caust proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2)  The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor.
(3) In this section, “qualified auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
 (b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
of practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman/Managing Director and the Secretary or two other
members of the Corporation as may be decided by the
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Accounts and
Audit.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Academy.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education
 and Leadership (Incorporation)
Committee of Management who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence and such  signing
shall be independent of the signing  of any person as a
witness.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains any property whatsoever, after the satisfaction of all
debts and liabilities, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
or transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is or
are by its rules prohibited from distributing  any income or
property among its or their members. Such institution or
institutions may be determined by the members of the
Committee of Management on or before the dissolution of
the Corporation.
15. Nothing contained  in this Act shall prejudice affect
the rights of the Republic or any body politic or  corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Savings of
the rights of
the Republic
and others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 11 -->

South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education
 and Leadership (Incorporation)
10
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .