

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
PAGE 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 28
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2"059- 2018 fmnrjdß ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'02'16                                                                                           
No. 2,059 - FRIDAY , FEBRUARY  16,  2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  09th  March  2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd  February, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
27 - B 81250-353 (2018/02)
Note .-    Judicature (Amendment)   Bill was published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   Republic 
of Sri Lanka of February  02,  2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'16
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2018
28
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/54539.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: ksbfld$yï$b2$ 
;sia$§n'  
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND  
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notiﬁ ed that for the Commercial Purpose, Sarath 
Amarakoan has requested on lease a  State land containing in 
extent about  0.4835 Hec. out of  extent marked  Lot  691 and  
692  as depicted in the  Plan No. FVP 66 and   situated in the  
village  of  Sitrakala  which  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari 
Division of    Sisilasagama No. 124   coming  within  the area 
of authority of  Hambanthota   Divisional Secretariat in the  
District of  Hambanthota. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Lot No. 691 of  FVP 66 ;
On the East by : Lot No. 690  of  FVP 66;
On the  South by :  Lot No. 690,  693, 694 & 691 of  FVP 
66;
On the West by : Lot No. 691 of  FVP 66. 
The land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved                    
conditions and the following  conditions : - 
 (a)  Term   of the Lease .– Thirty  (30) Years ,  (from 
12.01.2018 onwards ).
  The Annual  rent of the Lease. –  In the instances where 
the  assessed value  of the  land  in the  year  2018  is  
less than Five  Million Rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000)  2% 
of the market value of  the  land in  the  said  year,  as 
per the valuation of the Chief  Valuer. In the Instances 
where the  assessed value  of the   land  in the  effective 
year  of  the  lease in the more than    ﬁ ve million  
Rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000),  4% of  the market value 
of the land  in the  said year, as a  per  valuation of 
the   Chief  Valuer. This  amount  of the  lease must  
be   revised in the   every  ﬁ ve  years and the  revision 
shall add   20%  to the  amount  that  just  preceded. 
  Premium .-  Not levied;
 ( b) The lessee must, within one year of the  commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land,   in susch a manner 
as to  captivate the mind  of the Divisional Secretary;
 
 ( c) The lessee  must not use  this land  for any purpose 
other than   Commercial  Purpose;
 ( d) This lease  must also  be  subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  imposed by the  Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping Committee/Board of Investment 
of Sri Lanka  and by  other  institutions;  
 (e)  The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair;
 (f)  Once the  land  is given on lease and  in the  event of  
failure on the part  of the  lessees to  substantiate within 
the    speciﬁ ed  time  frame the purpose for  which  the 
land  was  obtained action will be  taken to terminate  
the  lease ; 
 (g)  No sub - leasing  can  be done  until the expiry of a  
minimum period  of 05 years;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease  must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land will be leased 
out as requested. 
 S. A. E
RANTHIKA  W. KULARATHNA , 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura",  Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
16th February,  2018.
02 - 585 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'16
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2018 29
Land Commissioner General's No:- 4/10/54986
NOTIFICATION MADE UNDER STATE 
REGULATION NO. 21(2)
IT is hereby noti ﬁ ed that for the Agricultural Purpose, Mr. 
Jayarathna Amarasinghe has requested on lease a state land 
containing in extent about 01 A, 02 R out of extent marked 
as depicted in the tracing of Lot No. B in 842A/19 situated 
in the village of Thiniyawala which belongs to the Grama 
Niladhari Division of 842A, Thiniyawala coming within the 
area of authority of Palindanuwara Divisional Secretariat in 
the District of Kaluthara. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.
On the North by : Illegal land of Mr. Jayarathna Amarasingha; 
On the East by : LL land of Mr. Vijithasiri Perera;
On the South by : LL land of Mr. Wijerathna Dissanayaka;
On the west by : Forest reserve.
3. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intends to lease out 
the land subject to other Government approved conditions  
and the following conditions.
(a) Terms of the lease:- Thirty Years. (30) (Since  
22.12.2017)
The annual rent of the lease :-  4% of the undeveloped 
value of the land as per valuation of the chief valuer 
for the year 2017. This amount of the lease must be 
quinquennially revised in such a manner that the 
amount  as a result of the revision will be not less than 
50% of the amount that just preceded.;
Premium :- Three times of the annual amount of the 
lease.
(b) The lessee must not use this land for any purpose other 
than for the purpose of Agricultural purpose;
(c) The lessee  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the land, in such a manner as to 
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary;
(d) This lease must also be subject to the other special  
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional  
Secretary, and by other institutions. 
(e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the speciﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate
the lease.
(f) Permission will not be given for any other sub-leasing 
or transfer, other than the transferring within or sub-
leasing or transferring to accomplish the purpose
of this lease Bond until the expiry of 06 years from
22.12.2017.
(g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto
lapse.
(h) The buildings constructed/constructing must be
maintained in a proper state of repair.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date when  publish  
this notice  to the effect  that this land must not be 
given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
D.T.M. J
ATHILAKA,
Assistant Land Commissioner,
For Land Commissioner General. 
 Land Commissioner General's Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura" Rajamalwatta Rd, 
Battaramulla.
16th February 2018.
02-444
Land Commissioner General's No:- 4/10/54751
Provincial Land Commissioner's No: m'b'fld'$
06/1/fydr/602
NOTIFICATION MADE UNDER STATE 
REGULATION No. 21(2)
IT is hereby noti ﬁ ed that for the Society  Purpose Horana 
Multi Purpose Co-operative Soceity has requested on lease 
a state land containing in extent about Hect. 0.0253 Part of 
marked Lot  B as depicted in the tracing No. Ka/HRN/11/313 
and situated in the village of Koralaima which belongs to 

<!-- page 4 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'16
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2018
30
the Grama Niladhari Division of 604 A, Koralaima coming 
within the area of authority of Horana Divisional Secretariat 
in the District of Kaluthara.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.
 On the North by :   Lot Nos. A and C in this tracing
 On the East by :   Lot No. C in this tracing
 On the South by :   Lot No. C in this tracing and  
     Lot  No. 15 in P.P. l 4340
 On the West by :   Lot No. 15 in P.P. l  4340 and  
     Lot  No. A in this tracing
The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the government has intends to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions 
and the following conditions. 
 (a)  T erms of the lease . - Thirty Years. (30) (from 
09.01.2018 date approved by the Hon. Minister 
onwards)
  The annual rent of the lease . -   2% of the 
undeveloped value of the land as per valuation of 
the chief valuer for the year 2018.
  Premium :- Not levied 
 (b) The lessee must, within one year of the 
commencement of the lease, develop the said land, 
in such a manner as to captivate the mind of the 
Divisional Secretary.
 (c)  The lessee must not use this land for any purpose 
other than Society Purpose.
 (d)  This lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary, and by other institutions.
 (e)  The buildings constructed/constructing must be 
maintained in a proper state of repair.
 (f)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure in the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the speciﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease.
 (g)  No sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years.
 (h)  Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if  
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of  the  date when  publish this  notice to 
the effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land 
will be leased out as requested.
    
 D.T.M. J
ATHILAKA,
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 For Land Commissioner General. 
 Land Commissioner General's Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura" Rajamalwatta Rd., 
Battaramulla.
16th February 2018.
02-442
  
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/49469.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: NCP/PLC/L5/
MW/4. 
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  
LAND REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby noti ﬁ ed that for Agricultural Purpose, Mr. 
Amarasingha Arachchialage  Mahendra Padmasiri Perera  has  
requested on lease a  State land containing in extent about 
1.3094 He.  marked as   depicted in the  tracing  drawn by 
colonial  ofﬁ cer and situated in the village of Katukeliyawa 
which   belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division of  No. 
371 Nawodagama  coming within  the area of authority  of  
the Mahawilachchiya  Divisional Secretariat in the District 
of Anuradhapura.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Lot No. 1647   ;
On the East by : Lot No. 1647   ;
On the  South by :  Lot No. 1650  ;
On the West by :  Lot No. 1650 .

<!-- page 5 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'16
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2018 31
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions : - 
 ( a) Terms  of the Lease .– Thirty  (30) Years,  ( From 
11.12.2017);
 (b) The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the   undeveloped   
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer 
for the year 2017. This amount of the lease must be  
quinquennially revised in such a manner that the 
amount as a result of the revision will be  not  more 
than  50% of the  amount that just preceded.
Premium. - Three times of the annual rent of the lease ; 
 
 ( c) The   lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the  land, in such a manner as to 
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 ( d) The lessees must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for the  Mango Cultivation  purpose  ;
 ( e) This  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary and  by other  Institutions;
 
 (f)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease;
 
 (g)   No sub leasing can be done until the expiry of 
a  minimum period  of 05 years from the date  of  
11.12.2017 ;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land will be leased 
out as requested. 
  P
UBUDI PREMADASA,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura", Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
16th February, 2016.
02-489 
L
and Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/32862.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.:CPC/LC/
LD/1/14/102.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE   
LAND   REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT is hereby notiﬁ ed that for the Purpose of Residential, Miss. 
Arachilage Rupa  Indrani  Nissanka  has  requested on lease 
a state land  containing in extent about 19.2  Perches  out of  
extent Marked  Lot  No. 22 as  depicted in the  Tracing No. 
Mu P. Maga 725   and situated in the  village of  Singapitiya 
Colony  which  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division of  
Singha Pittiya North  coming  within the area of  authority of  
Uda  Palatha   Divisional  Secretariat in the District of  Kandy. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
 
On the North by : Lot No. 06  ;
On the East by : Lot Nos. 21 & 20 ;
On the  South by :  The Road ;
On the West by :  Lpt Nos. 05 & 23.   
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions   : - 
 ( a) Terms  of the Lease .– Thirty  (30) Years (from 
15.06.1995 on wards);
     The Annual Rent  of the Lease.– 4% of the  undeveloped 
value  land as per valuation of the Chief  Valuer for 
the Year 1995 ;
  Penalty .- Treble  4% of the developed value of the 
land  ;
 ( b) The  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 (c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for  the purpose of  Residential activities  ;
 ( d) This  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping committee/Board of Investment of 
Sri Lanka  and   by other  Institutions;

<!-- page 6 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'16
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2018
32
 ( e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair ;
 (f)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the  lease ;
 (g)   Permission will not be given  for any other sub  leasing 
or transfer  other than  transferring   within  the family 
or sub  leasing or transferring  to accomplish the 
purpose  of this  lease bond  until the expiry  of 05 
years from 18.09.2014 .   A  Grant could claimed for 
this lease bond  after the expiry  of  05 years from  
18.09.2014;
 (h)  Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse;
 (i) House construction activities  must  me completed 
within  the time frame speci ﬁ ed in alienating  lands 
for  house  construction purposes and the  failure to 
do  so will be deemed as a lapse of the long  term lease 
bond  and the land will have  to be re - vested in the  
government.  
 
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which this  notice is published 
in the Gazette to the effect that this land must not be given on 
lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  W. A
YOTHIYA. S. JAYAWARDANA,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner( Land),
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura",   Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
16th February, 2018.
02-488
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.