

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"064 - 2018 ud¾;= ui 23 jeks isl=rdÞ - 2018'03'23
No. 2,064 -  FRIDAY ,  MARCH  23, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
    PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... ––
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
         PAGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ...  358
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
357 -
N.B.—     (i) Part IV (A) of the Gazette No.2,063 of 16.03.2018 was not published. 
  (ii)  The list of Jurors in Badulla District Jurisdiction Areas in year 2018 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in       
 Sinhala Languages. 
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  12th April 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 29th March, 2018.
 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting). 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81266 - 5,403 (03/2018)
Note .-(i)  Sri Lanka Tea Board  (Amendment)   Bill  was  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  
Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of March 09, 2018.
   
  (ii)  National Defence Fund  (Amendment)   Bill was  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  
Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of March 09, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.03.2018
358
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF POSTS OF COOPERATE DEVELOPMENT 
OFFICER GRADE III OF WESTERN PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE - 2018
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for the Open Competitive Examination for selection of quali ﬁ ed individuals to be 
recruited for the vacancies of Cooperate Development Of ﬁ cer Grade III of Supervising Management Assistant (Technical) 
carder as per the 7th Section of recruitment and promotion scheme of post of Cooperate Development Of ﬁ cer by Western 
Provincial Public Service Commission. 
02. Number of Vacancies and The Effective Date of the Appointment:
This examination is being conducted for selecting qualiﬁ ed individuals for 45 vacancies that are being approved by now. The 
Western Provincial Public Service commission has the ﬁ nal decision of recruiting for current vacancies or for the vacancies 
that occur in future. The number of appointments and the effective date will be determined by Western Provincial Public 
Service Commission.
03. Service Conditions :
 (i) This post is Permanent. Pensionable. You must adhere to the policy decisions taken by the government regarding 
the pension scheme that you are entitled for.
 (ii)  The quali ﬁ ed individuals for the post will be recruited subjecting to a probationary period of 3 years.
 (iii)  After being recruited for the post, ef ﬁ ciency bar and government language proﬁ ciency examinations must be passed 
as per recruitment and promotion procedure of Cooperate Development Ofﬁ cer.
 (iv)  You should discharge the obligations and responsibilities of your duty conforming to all rules, regulations, orders and 
procedures that will be imposed by the Hon. Governor of Western Province with regard to the Western Provincial 
Public Service. Also, you will be subjected to the provisions of the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka and Western Provincial Council, Code of Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Council, 
Financial Regulations of the government and Western Provincial Council, other regulations of the government and 
Western Provincial Council, circulars and instructions and amendments issued from time to time with regard to 
them.
04.  Salary Scale :
The Salary scheme for this post will be the salary scale of Rs. 31,040-10x445-11x660-10x730-10x750-57,550/-(MN3-2016) 
as per No 3/2016 and the ﬁ rst schedule of Government Administrative Circular dated 25.02.2016. But that salary will be paid 
to you according to the provisions of second schedule of it.
05. Following common qualiﬁ cations must be completed :
 a) Must be a Sri Lankan Citizen.
 b)  Must be physically and mentally ﬁ t to be deployed and to fulﬁ ll the duties of the post with in any part of Western 
Province.
 c) Should be a permanent resident of Western Province for at least 03 years immediately preceding the closing date of 
applying. 
 d) Age limit must be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years (The maximum age limit will not be applicable 
if the applicant is already in public/provincial public service.)
 e)  All the quali ﬁ cations that are stated in this advertisement to recruit for this post must be fulﬁ lled by 2018.04.20 
   And be of excellent character.
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.03.2018
359
06. Educational qualiﬁ cations must be completed as follows:
 (i) Should have passed in six (06) subjects including Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics and another two languages 
in one sitting at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) examination.
      and 
     
 (ii) Should have passed in all the subjects (except the common general test) in one sitting at the G.C.E. (Advanced 
Level) examination. (Passing 03 subjects in one sitting under the old syllabus is sufﬁ cient.)
07. Professional qualiﬁ cations must be completed as mentioned below.
 (i) Having passed 01-year Diploma in Advanced Accountancy at National Cooperate Development Institute.
      or
 (ii) Having passed 01-year Diploma in Advanced Auditing at National Cooperate Development Institute.
      or
 (iii) Having passed 01-year Diploma in Advanced Management at National Cooperate Development Institute.
      or
 (iv) Having passed ﬁ nal stage of Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT) of Sri Lanka.
      or
 (v) Having passed 01-year Diploma program of Accountancy from a university recognized by University Grants 
Commission.
      or
 (vi) Having passed 01-year Diploma program of Management from a university recognized by University Grants 
Commission.
      or
 (vii) Having passed 04 -year Advanced Diploma of National Institute of Higher Education.
      or
 (viii) Having passed 03 -year Advanced Diploma of Business Administration from National Institute of Higher 
Education. 
      or
 (ix) Having passed 04 -year Advanced Diploma of National Institute of Higher Education.
      or
 (x) Having obtained a degree in Accountancy from a university recognized by University Grants Commission.
      or
 (xi) Having obtained a degree of Bachelor in Commerce from a university recognized by University Grants 
Commission.     
08. Information about the examination :
The competitive examination of recruitment consists of two papers. This examination is conducted on Sinhala, 
Tamil and English mediums and the medium applied will not be allowed to change later. Since this is a competitive 
examination, at least 40% marks should be scored from that is allocated for each subject to qualify to be considered 
for the appointment. The recruitment will be done based on the order of marks obtained at the examination.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.03.2018
360
Question Paper Total Marks Time Pass 
Marks
1.  Apptitude Test 100 01 Hour 40%
2.  General knowledge and subjective knowledge 100 01 Hour 40%
09.     Syllabus for the examination:
Name of question paper Syllabus
1.Apptitude test This paper consists of 50 multiple choice and short answer questions 
to determine the logical thinking, analytical skills and decision making 
ability of applicants.
2.General knowledge and subjective knowledge (a)   Local and international social economic and political knowledge 
(b)   Knowledge of cooperative vision and business.
     Paper consists of 50 multiple choice and short answer questions.
09.1 Towns and town numbers that the examination is supposed to be conducted;
 Town Town Number
                                   Colombo   1
 Gampaha 2
 Kalutara 3
P .S. – The town applied to face the examination will not be allowed to change later. If the number of applicants applied for a 
certain town is insufﬁ cient, will be directed to the town stated as the 2nd choice and if it is insufﬁ cient for the second town, 
will be directed to a nearby town.
10.  Examination Fees :
 Every applicant must pay an examination fee to Western Provincial Council. The examination fee for this 
examination is Rs.600/-. That examination fee should be paid in cash to any of the Divisional Secretary’s Ofﬁ ce with in the 
Western Province on or before the closing date of applications as to be credited to the Western Provincial Revenue Heading                               
20-03-02-99and the receipt obtained should be afﬁ rmed ﬁ rmly to required ﬁ eld of the application.Retaining a photocopy will 
be useful. The fee paid for this examination will not be refunded fully or in half under any circumstances. Further, stamps or 
money orders will not be accepted for examination fee.
11.   Method of applying:
(a) Application should be in conformity with the specimen application given in this notice should be self-prepared 
and ﬁ lled using both sided of the A4 size paper.No;01 to No. 04 paragraphs should be on the ﬁ rst page and the 
paragraphs from No. 05 onwards should be on other pages. Applications that are not in conformity with the 
specimen application form and applications with incomplete information will be rejected without prior notice. 
Candidates are supposed to bear the loss of sending incomplete applications. (Retaining a photo copy of the 
application with you will be useful)

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.03.2018
361
(b) When preparing applications, the name of the examination at the heading, must be stated in English on Sinhala 
applications and on Tamil applications.
(c) Completed applications should be sent to “Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission,                               
No. 109, Maha Veediya, Battaramulla” to be received on or before  20.04.2018 by registered post.” Competitive 
examination for recruiting Western Provincial Cooperate Development Of ﬁ cer Grade 111-2018” should be 
written on the upper left corner of the envelop. Any application received after this date will not be accepted.
(d) Western Provincial Public Service Commission will allow all applicants who have applied according to the 
qualiﬁ cations in the notice and prepared and paid the relevant examination fee under the pre assumption of 
fulﬁ lling all the quali ﬁ cations. Incomplete applications in every way will be rejected without any notice. 
Any complain will not be considered regarding being lost or late at the post. Issuing an admission will not be 
considered as qualifying for this post. If it is revealed at the time of interview that the applicant does not possess 
the required qualiﬁ cations, his/her candidature will be revoked.
(e) It will not be informed that the applications are being received.As soon as the admissions are issued , it 
will be published by notice on the of ﬁ cial web site of Western Provincial Public Service Commission 
www.psc.wp.gov.lk . If the admission is not received after 02 days of such notice it should be informed 
to Western Provincial Public Service Commission as stated in the notice. Should be inquired from 
Western Provincial Public Service Commission with the photo copies of application and receipt with the 
receipt of registering the letter stating the name, address NIC number and the name of the examination.
(f) Signature of the applicant should have been attested by an authorized of ﬁ cer. Applicant appearing from any 
institution should have got his signature attested by the Head of the Institution or an of ﬁ cer authorized by 
him and other applicants should have got their signature attested by the Principal of a government school/
retired ofﬁ cer,Grama Niladhari of the relevant division,Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-
Law,Notary Public,Commissioned ofﬁ cer of three forces, an ofﬁ cer of government or provincial government or 
permanent staff ofﬁ cer grade drawing an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360/- or above chief incumbent 
of a Buddhist temple or a priest of any other denomination in charge of a religious place or member of the 
Clergy holding a high position.  
 
12.  Entry to the examination :
(a) Admissions will be issued to every applicant who has applied correctly by the Western Provincial Public Service 
Commission. An applicant who face the examination must face the examination at the required examination 
center and on the ﬁ rst day should produce the admission to the Supervisor.An applicant that fail to produce his 
admission will not be allowed to face the examination. 
(b) Candidates are subjected to the rules and conditions regulated by the Western Provincial Public Service 
Commission regarding conducting the examination. They will be subjected to a punishment prescribed the 
Western Provincial Public Service Commission in case of breach of such rules or conditions.
13. Identity of applicant:  The candidates must prove his identity to the content of Head of Examiners regarding
 every  subject. Following documents must be produced in order to prove the identity.
     (i) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department of registration of people.
    (ii) Valid passport issued by Department of Migration and Immigration
14.  Producing false information :
 If it is revealed that an applicant is does not have enough quali ﬁ cations his/her candidature can be cancelled before 
the examination, at the time of the examination, after the examination or at any moment. If it is proved that the applicant 
has purposely produced any false information or hidden any important information, he/she will be suspended from public 
service.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.03.2018
362
15. Examination Method :
 i.    This examination is conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums.
 ii.    An applicant must answer every question paper at the examination in one language.
16.   Publishing the list including the names of qualiﬁ ed applicants from this examination will be done by Western Provincial 
Public Service Commission informing candidates in private, by post or through 
www.psc.wp.gov.lk by Western 
Provincial Public Service Commission.
17.   Western Provincial Public Service Commission has the ﬁ nal decision regarding the relevant facts that are disclosed/
undisclosed by this application calling advertisement.
18.   This advertisement is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium and if there are any incompatibility or inconformity 
in the translations Sinhala medium advertisement will be considered as correct and action will be taken accordingly.
19.   This advertisement and specimen application are also published on of ﬁ cial web site www.psc.wp.gov.lk of Western 
Provincial Public Service Commission.
  M.G.A. Thilakarathna,
  Secretary,   
 Provincial Public Service Commission, 
  Western Province.
19th March, 2018,
Western Provincial Public Service Commission Ofﬁ ce,
No. 109,
MahaVeediya, Battaramulla.
Specimen Application Form
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  GRADE  III  OF  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL 
COOPERATIVE  DEVELOPMENT  OFFICER  - 2018
             (For Of ﬁ cial Use)
*  Language Medium of sitting for the examination
Sinhala  - 2
Tamil     - 3
English  - 4
(Write the relevant number in the box)
Town and town number: 
Colombo -  1 Town Town Number
Gampaha -  2 1. 
Kalutara  -  3 2.
 1.1  Name in Full (In English block letters)………………………………………………
 ( Ex :  HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
1.2  Name with initials at the end (In English block letters)…………………………………
 ( Ex :  GUNAWARDHANA, H.M.S.K)
1.3 Name in Full (In Sinhala/Tamil) - ……………………………………………………….

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.03.2018
363
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address (In English block letters):……………………………………
 2.2 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil):……………………………………………..
 2.3 Address to which the admission should be sent:
  i    In Sinhala/Tamil-……………………………………………..
  ii  In English block letters - ……………………………………..
 2.4 Telephone Number-……………………………………………...
3.0 3.1 Gender – (write the relevant number in the box)
  Male    -   0
  Female -  1
 
 3.2 Permanent resident district of the applicant –  Colombo  - 1
   Gampaha  - 2
   Kalutara   -  3  (Write the relevant number in the box)
 3.3 Divisional Secretariat-…………………………………….
 3.4 Duration of permanent residency in Western Province - ……………………….
 3.5 Are you a Sri Lankan citizen by birth or by registration? - ……………………….
4.0 4.1 Civil Status- Married-2, Unmarried-1                       
    (write the relevant number in the box)   
 
4.2 Date of birth Year:                           Month:                           Date:
4.3 Age as at the ﬁ nal date of submitting applications: Years:                  Months:               Days: 
5.0 Educational Quali ﬁ cations:
 5.1 Details of G.C.E.(O/L) examination:
  i.   Year and month of examination:  Year         Month     
  ii.  Index Number :………….
.                            iii.  Results:
Subject Pro ﬁ ciency Subject Pro ﬁ ciency
16
27
38
49
51 0
5.2 Details of G.C.E.(A/L) examination-
  i.     Year and month of examination         Year :          Month :
  ii.    Index Number:………………..
                             iii.   Results:
Subject Pro ﬁ ciency
1
2
3
4
 

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.03.2018
364
6.0 Professional quali ﬁ cations as per 7th Section of application calling notice (write the number of the relevant profes-
sional qualiﬁ cation as per notice)
(Ex; Having Passed ﬁ nal stage of  AAT    IV    )
 i)………………………………………………………………………….   
 ii)…………………………………………………………………………    
7.0 Have you ever found guilty before a court?
(Put √  mark in the relevant box.)                      Yes                               No 
8.0 Details of the receipt –
 i      Divisional Secretariat to which examination fees was paid:……………………
 ii.    Receipt number and date-……………………………………………………….
 iii.   Amount paid- …………………………………………………………………..
 
9.0 Declaration by the applicant:
(a) I hereby declare that the above mentioned herein is true and correct according to my knowledge. I agree to 
bear the losses of not completing and/or erroneously completing. All the sections here are duly completed.
(b) If it is found that this declaration is false, I know that I would become ineligible to be appointed for the 
post and to be suspended from the post even after being appointed. 
(c) Further, I will adhere to the rules and regulations of Western Provincial Public Service Council and I hereby 
agree to accept the decisions of cancelling my candidacy if proved ineligible for the examination conditions.
(d) Any information stated here will not be changed later.
 
Date………..............                                                      ………………………………
  Signature of Applicant.
10. Certifying the signature of the applicant :
 I hereby certify that I personally know this applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………………...., that he/she has paid 
the required examination fee, that he/she has afﬁ rmed that receipt to the application and that he/she has signed in front of me 
on …………………………………
     
 ……………………………   
 Signature and Of ﬁ cial Seal of Certifying Ofﬁ cer.
Date- …………………………………
Full Name of Certifying Ofﬁ cer-………………………………
Designation-……………………………….
Address-…………………………………...
Afﬁ x the receipt here ﬁ rmly.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'23
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 23.03.2018
365
Certiﬁ cate of Head of Department for Applicants in Government Service
Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………………………… that produce this application is currently working at 
………………………………………… of ﬁ ce/institute from …………………. to…………………. at permanent/ tempo-
rary/casual post (cut off irrerelavent), his/her service is commendable,he/she will /will not be released from the current post 
in case of being selected for appointment as per result of this examination.
 ……………………………..
 Signature and the seal of certifying ofﬁ cer
Date-……………………………………………..
Name of Certifying Ofﬁ cer-…………………..
Designation-……………………………………..
Address-…………………………………………
03-1482
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.