

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2013$31 - 2017 wfm%a,a ui 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'04'07
No. 2013/31 - FRIDAY,  APRIL  07, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A  G  25389 — 32 (04/2017)
MINUTE   OF   THE   ENGINEERING   ASSISTANTS’   SERVICE   OF   THE   IRRIGATION   DEPARTMENT
FOLLOWING Minute of Engineering Assistants’ Service of the Irrigation Department is hereby substituted without
prejudice to any action taken or purported to be taken in terms of the Minute of the Technical Assistants’ Service of the
Irrigation Department published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
No. 1069/19 dated 05/03/1999 and amendments made to the same from time to time.
By order of Public Service Commission,
H. M. G
AMINI SENEVIRATHNE,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
06th April, 2017.
01. Effective Date :
This Service Minute shall be effective from  the date of 11.02.2016
02. Appointing Authority :
Apprentice Grades III, II, I: Director General of Irrigation with delegated power by the Public Service Commission.
Special Grade: Public Service Commission
03. Service Category / Service Categories :
Supervisory Management Assistant- Non-Technological/ Technological (Grades III, II and I)
Management Assistant: Supra Class (Special Grade)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
2A
04. Role:
I. A service category which performs the activities in the nature of multitasking including personnel management,
financial custody and money transactions, supervision and operations which are supportive to the role of the
executive of the institutions, and which were specifically assigned by the executive.
II. A service category entrusted with functions of Administration/ Personnel Management, Financial Management and
Material Management so as to be supplementary/ supportive to functions of senior executives and executive
officers specifically recruiting through an internal process limiting to the approved cadre.
05. Salary (Salary code number, Salary scale,  Initial salary step)  :
5.1 Salary Code Numbers:
MN 3- 2006 A (Grades III, II, I)
MN 7- 2006 A (Special Grade)
5.2 Salary Scale (monthly):
Grades III, II, I: Rs. 15,005-4x180-6x240-11x320-20x360-27, 885/=
Special Grade: Rs. 20,030-11x365-18,500-33,045/=
5.3 Initial salary step applicable to grading system
Grade Initial salary step Initial salary point
III Step 01 Rs. 15,005.00
II Step 12 Rs. 17,485.00
I Step 23 Rs. 21,045.00
Special Step 4 Rs. 21,125.00
5.4 Allowance for apprentices during the training period.
As per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 (II), allowances are paid during the training period as
follows.
Rs. 12, 920/= per month for the first year.
Rs. 13,040/= per month for the second year.
Rs. 13,160/= per month for the third year.
06. Posts belonging to the service :
6.1 Approved designations, approved cadre and duties assigned to post.
Following duties are assigned subject to changes made by the instructions in the circulars issued from
time to time by the Director General as required by the exigency of service.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
3A
Approved Approved Approved Duties
designation Grade number
of posts
Engineering III, II, I 636 Following duties assigned under the supervision of an irrigation
engineer as per the regulations of the department:Preliminary
investigations for effective operational work of constructions/
improvements/ rehabilitation/ operation and maintenance of
new or ongoing gravity/ lift/ micro irrigation, flood-water and
salt-water prevention schemes, and productive water
controlling, Surveying and leveling, according to full
investigations, Preparing limited scale drafts and civil
engineering designs, preparing relevant plans, quantity
surveying, rate analysis and preparing estimates, Preparing of
procurement documents according to the standard
specifications, supervision of work, quality control of the
organization, Management of machinery, relevant fuel, materials,
at field work sites and relevant stores management  accounting.
Development and training of institutional organization as the
business manager of irrigation schemes and officer incharge
of fields/units supervising the work of work administrators,
technical assistants, field assistants, and labourers.  Field work
and assigned duties of other engineering sub professions
related to the duties assigned to the department by the Irrigation
Ordinance and other acts.
Divisional special 65 According to powers vested by Departmental circulars and
Financial circulars issued from time to time by the Director
General of Irrigation, checking, the inventories, order registers,
measurement of work completed, monthly progress costs and
running charts of all vehicles related to making payments under
Regional Engineer’s supervision. Certification of payments,
making all cash payments, signing cheque as second signatory;
maintaining cash imprest register, payment utility register; and
assisting the Irrigation Engineer in charge, the Division/
Resident Engineer in the administration of stores, labourers,
vehicles and offices and covering such duties.
6.2 Combined number of Officers:  Engineering Assistants Grades III, II and I- 636
For the purpose of grade promotions, Grades III, II and I shall be treated as belonging to the combined
number of officers.
6.3 Nature of the post/posts: The post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions will have to be made to
the Widows’/ Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
Assistant
Assistant

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
4A
07. Method of Recruitment :
7.1 Ratio of Recruitment
Stream Percentage Ratio (As per the approved number of posts)
Male Female
Open 90% 75% 25%
Limited 10% 75% 25%
7.2 Recruitment under open stream
7.2.1 Recruitment Grade
7.2.1.1. Qualifications for recruitment of apprentices (for a training of three years)
Educational Qualifications
I. Shall have passed G .C. E (Ordinary Level) Examination in six (06) subjects  with credit
passes for Sinhala/Tamil, English Language, Mathematics and Science at one sitting,
and
II. Shall have passed G.C.E (Advanced Level) examination with subjects relevant to the
fields of Physics, Pure Mathematics, Applied Mathematics and Chemistry  as per the old
syllabus at one sitting,
Or
Shall have passed G.C.E (Advanced Level) Examination with subjects relevant to the
fields of Advanced Mathematics or Combined Mathematics and Chemistry as per the
new syllabus at one sitting,
V ocational Qualifications- Not applicable
7.2.1.2 Grade III (Direct Recruitment)
(a). Educational Qualifications
I. Shall have passed G .C. E (Ordinary Level) Examination in six (06) subjects (06) with credit
passes for Sinhala/Tamil, English Language, Mathematics, Science and one other subject
at one sitting,
and
II. Shall have passed G.C.E (Advanced Level) examination with subjects relevant to the
fields of Physics, Pure Mathematics, Applied Mathematics and Chemistry  as per the old
syllabus at one sitting,
or
Shall have passed G.C.E (Advanced Level) examination with subjects relevant to the
fields of Advanced Mathematics or Combined Mathematics and Chemistry as per the
new syllabus at one sitting.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
5A
(b). V ocational Qualifications
I. Having obtained the certificate upon following the Diploma in Irrigation Engineering
at an Irrigation Training Institute at Galgamuwa, Kotmale,
or
II. Having obtained the certificate upon following the National Diploma in Technology
(Civil Engineering) at the University of Moratuwa, Katubedda,
or
III. Having followed the Higher National Diploma in Engineering Science (Civil Engineering)
conducted by Sri Lanka Institute of Advance Technologies, Mattakkuliya,
or
IV . Having obtained the certificate upon following the National Diploma in Engineering
Science (Civil- Engineering) conducted by the Institute of Engineering Technologies,
Katunayake,
or
V. Having obtained the certificate upon following the Diploma in Technology (Civil-
Engineering) conducted by the Open University,
or
VI. Having obtained the certificate upon following a course similar to any courses above
recognized by the University Grants Commission or the Commission of Tertiary Education.
These courses shall be of NVQ level 6.
Note:
I. At the instances where recruitments are made through both direct recruitments to the
grade III and recruitments to training Grade, recruitments shall be made first to grade III
which is the recruitment grade.
II. If the number of candidates who become qualified to Grade III which is the recruitment
grade is not sufficient, (the candidates who fulfilled the qualifications as per 7.2.1.1.) will
be recruited as apprentices for remaining vacancies.
7.2.2 Physical fitness
Shall have the physical fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the duties of the
post.
     7.2.3  Other
I. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
II. Shall be of excellent character.
III. Candidates are deemed to have possessed qualifications to sit the competitive
examination for the recruitment to the service, only if they have satisfied all the
qualifications and the prescribed age limit in each and every aspect as at the date
prescribed in the notification for calling applications.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
6A
7.2.4 Age:
7.2.4.1 Minimum age limit: 18 years
7.2.4.2 Maximum age limit: 30 years
7.2.5 Method of Recruitment
Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written competitive examination and a general interview.
Qualified candidates shall be selected by calling for a general interview, a number of candidates equivalent
to the number of recruitments expected to be made on the order of merit, determined on the aggregate of
marks secured at the examination by the candidates who have passed the written examination.
7.2.5.1 Written Test
(Syllabus is mentioned in schedule 01.)
Subjects Maximum marks Pass mark
Intelligence Test 100 40%
Technological Question Paper 100 40%
7.2.5.1.1 Conducting Authority: By an institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation
7.2.5.2 Professional Test: Not applicable.
7.2.5.3 Structured Interview: Not applicable.
7.2.5.4 General Interview: (Marks are not allocated.)
Objectives to be achieved: For the verification of qualifications and certificates of
applicants.
7.2.5.4.1Appointing Authority of the general interview board: Director General of
Irrigation
7.2.6 Method of calling applications:
Applications shall be called by publishing a notice in the Government Gazette  by publishing
notices in the web Sites.
7.3 Recruitment under limited stream
7.3.1 Recruitment grade
7.3.1.1 Qualifications for the recruitment of apprentices (for a training of 2 years)
(a) Educational Qualifications:
I. Shall have passed G.C.E (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects (06) with credit
passes for Sinhala/ Tamil, English Language, Mathematics and Science within one sitting.
(b) Professional Qualifications:
Having obtained the relevant certificate of NVQ level 4 (NCT-Civil)upon passing the three year
part-time National Certificate course in Technology (Civil) from a technical college recognized by
the Commission of Tertiary and V ocational Education.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
7A
(c). Experience:
Being an officer in the post of technical assistant of Management Assistant- Technological
service category with at least a period of 10 years of permanent service.
7.3.2 Physical fitness:
Shall have the physical fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the duties of the post.
7.3.3 Other:
I. Post shall have been confirmed in the post.
II. Shall be a departmental employee who has completed at least an active satisfactory
service period of 05 years in a field relevant to the post.
III. Shall have completed a satisfactory service period of preceding 05 years.
IV . Officers are deemed to have possessed qualifications to sit the written test for the
recruitment to the service only if the officer has satisfied all the qualifications in each and
every aspect, as at the date prescribing in the notification for calling applications.
V. Shall not be subjected to any disciplinary punishment except for a warning in preceding
05 years.
7.3.4 Age:
7.3.4.1 Minimum age limit: Not applicable
7.3.4.2 Maximum age limit: 45 years
7.3.5 Method of Recruitment:
Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written examination and a structured interview. Qualified
candidates shall be selected by subjecting to a structured interview, a number of candidates twice the
number of recruitments expected to be made on the order of merit determined on the total/ aggregate marks
of the candidates who have passed the written examination.
7.3.5.1 W ritten test
(Syllabus is mentioned in schedule 03.)
Subjects Maximum marks Pass mark
Intelligence Test 100 40
Technological Question Paper 100 40
7.3.5.1.1Conducting Authority: By an institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation
7.3.5.2 Trade test: Not applicable

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
8A
7.3.5.3 Structured Interview: Qualified candidates are selected on the order of merit given by checking the
qualifications and certificates of applicants.
Main topics which marks are given Maximum marks Minimum marks considered
 for selection
Additional educational 35
qualifications
Additional vocational 25
qualifications
Additional experience 25
Other qualifications 10
Merit shown at the interview 5
Total 100
Note:
I. Within the maximum amount of marks for main topics for which marks shall be given as
indicated in the above table, a detailed marking scheme for each structured interview shall be
approved by the appointing authority.
II. Recruitments to the posts are made on the number of vacancies and the order of merit
determined on the aggregate of marks secured at the structured interview.
7.3.5.3.1Appointing authority of the structured interview board: Director General of Irrigation
7.3.5.4 General Interview: Not applicable
7.3.6 Method of calling applications:
Applications shall be called by publishing a notice in the Government Gazette or publishing public notices
or notices in the website.
7.4 Recruitment under the order of merit: Not applicable
08. Efficiency Bar :
8.1
Which efficiency bar Number of years before which the Nature of the Efficiency Bar
Efficiency Bar should be passed Written/ Trade Test/
Certificate course/Other
1
st Efficiency Bar Before la pse of three (03) years A written test  (Schedule 04)
from recruitment to Grade III
2nd  Efficiency Bar Before la pse of three (03) years A written test (Schedule 05)
from promotion to Grade II
3rd  Efficiency Bar Before lapse of five (05) years
from promotion to Grade I A written test (Schedule 06)
Not applicable

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
9A
Note:
a) Those who have passed the compete Junior Technical Examination conducted by the Director General of Irrigation
mentioned in the service minute and published in the Gazette Extraordinary  No. 1069/19 dated 05/03/1999 are
considered as having passed the first efficiency bar.
b) Those who have passed the part I and II of the first half and subject B of the part II of the second half of the Senior
Technical examination conducted by the Director General of Irrigation stated in the service minute published in the
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1069/19 dated 05/03/1999 are considered as having passed the second efficiency bar.
c) Those who have passed the part I and II of the first half and the subjects A and B of the part II of the second half of
the Senior Technical examination conducted by the Director General of Irrigation stated in the service minute
published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1069/19 and dated 05/03/1999 are considered as having passed the third
efficiency bar.
d) Officers who have earned five salary increments upon completing an active and satisfactory service period after
promoting to the Grade I by the effective date of this service minute are exempted from satisfying the requirement of
passing the third efficiency bar examination.
Time frame of the Efficiency Bar Examination : twice a year
8.2 Authority for conducting the tests related to efficiency bars :
First efficiency bar
Second efficiency bar
Third efficiency bar
9. Language Proficiency  :
9.1.
Language Proficiency to be satisfied
Official Language Officers who have been recruited to service in a language other than
an official language, shall acquire relevant proficiency in official
language within the probation period.
Other official language Proficiency at the relevant level shall be acquired as per Public
Administration Circular 01/2014 and other circulars issued
consequently.
10. Grade promotions :
10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II
10.1.1 On average performance
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
I. Shall have been confirmed in the appointment.
II. Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten (10) years in
Grade III of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments by the date qualified for
promotion.
}
By an institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
10A
III. Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten (10)
years preceding the date of promotions as per the approved performance appraisal procedure.
IV . Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding the date
of promotion.
V . Shall have obtained the prescribed level of proficiency in other official language.
VI. Shall have passed the first Efficiency Bar examination on due date.
10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion
When officers who have satisfied the qualifications make a request to the Appointing Authority
as per the specimen form, promotion to Grade II shall be made by the Appointing Authority after
verification of qualifications to be effective from the qualifying date.
10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1 On average performance
10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
I. Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten   (10) years in
Grade II of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments
II. Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding the date of
promotion.
III. Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten (10) years
preceding the date of promotions as per the approved performance appraisal procedure.
IV . Shall have passed the second Efficiency Bar examination on due date.
10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion
When officers who have satisfied the qualifications make a request to the Appointing Authority
as per the specimen form, promotion to Grade I shall be made by the Appointing Authority after
verification of qualifications to be effective from the qualifying date.
10.3 Promotion from grade I to Special Grade
10.3.1 On average performance
10.3.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
I. Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least six
(06) years in Grade I of the service category and earned all six (06) salary
increments
II. Have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding
the date of promotion.
III. Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the
period of six (06) years preceding the date of promotions as per the approved
performance appraisal procedure.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
11A
IV . Shall have passed the third Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.
V . Shall have passed the senior technological examination in subjects I, II
categories of first half and the part (a) and (b) of category II of the second
half.
10.3.1.2 Method of Promotion
When vacancies occurred in the special Grade, on the order of the Public
Service Commission, applications are called by the Director General of Irrigation
from engineers who have completed above qualifications and are prompted to
the special grade on the marks obtained in an interview based on the seniority
form the date vacancies appeared and the rank.
10.4 Remark
In promotion according to average level performance the date of promotion of officers who do not pass
the efficiency bar on the due date shall be delayed by a period equal to the period delayed passing of
efficiency bar.
11. Appointment to Posts :
11.1 Qualifications
Post Qualifications manner of selection
Divisional Assistant Being an officer in the Special Grade According to the seniority
12. Conditions applicable to the service
Recruitment to grade III at the end of the training period
I. Applicants recruited as apprentices under open stream on successful completion of three year full time
course namely the two year theoretical and one year practical conducted by Irrigation Training Institute at
Galgamuwa, Kotmale and Colombo under the ministry in charge of the subject of Irrigation/ Department of
Irrigation, will be eligible to receive irrigation engineering diploma certificate offered by the Galgamuwa
Irrigation Training Institute of the Department of Irrigation. For apprentices enrolled under limited stream,
it is sufficient to offer the above certificate on passing the two year theoretical and practical training given
under the supervision of the Director of the Galgamuwa Irrigation Training Institute as directed by the
Director General of Irrigation. In giving one year practical training the training will be structured on
requirements and available facilities as the case may be. This course will take effect according to a semester
system and its overall merit will be determined on the average of results of examination held at the end of
each semester. On obtaining this certificate they will be recruited to Grade III of the Engineering Assistants’
Service.
Note: The examination which will be conducted at the end of the training for applicants, recruited an
apprentices under limited stream should be on par with the level of examination applicable to training of
applicants who will be enrolled under open stream.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
12A
II. Irrigation Engineer Assistant Apprentices who may fail in prescribed examination shall have the opportunity
to have their training extended by not more than six months at the discretion of the Director General of
Irrigation, if not their failure is due to negligence of work, lack of interest or poor attendance. Those
engineering assistant apprentices who failed in prescribed examination shall pass the final examination and
all other tests which will be considered at the end of the extended training period. If the apprentices who
applied under the open stream failed once again their service shall be terminated. During the extended training
period the apprentices are not granted their allowance.
III. During the period of training the engineering assistants apprentices shall submit a satisfactory training record
for participating at least 80% of lectures and practical lessons. Any engineering assistant apprentice who does
not have the minimum attendance and satisfactory service record shall not be allowed to appear for the
prescribed examination and his training shall also be terminated.
IV . Apprentices selected under limited stream shall remain further on their previous salary scale during the training
period. In addition to the salary they shall be paid an annual allowance equivalent to the initial salary increment
of the Engineering Assistants Service until they pass the examination at the end of training course. An officer
who follows the training period successfully shall be placed in the second year on the higher salary step of the
salary scale which he received so far. The allowance shall be paid continuously. After passing the examination
on successful completion of the training, salary conversion shall be made in accordance with the provision of
the establishment code revised by the Public Administration Circular No. 7/2000 dated 02/03/2000.
V. Engineering Assistants who are directly enrolled to the Engineering Assistants Grade III shall be given six
month in-service Training as directed by the Irrigation Department. This includes theoretical and practical
training. Thereafter, on the skills, they show in passing the theoretical and practical examination to be held, their
seniority shall be decided.
General matters
The number of persons to be recruited shall be decided by the Director General of Irrigation on the number of
existing vacancies in the Engineering Assistants’ Service. Apprentices enrolled shall enter into an agreement
with Director General of Irrigation before they commence the training.
13. Interpretations and definitions
I. The term “ Gazette” shall mean the gazette published by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
II. The term “Service Minute” shall mean the minute of the Service Minute of the Engineering Assistants at the
Irrigation Department.
III. The term “effective date” shall mean the date on which this minute comes into effect.
IV . “Service” shall mean the Engineering Assistants’ Service at the Irrigation Department.
V. “Period of Active Service” shall mean the actual period of 
Active served by the officer engaged in the duties
assigned to him and drawing the salary attached to his post. All the periods on No Pay other than periods which
are specifically stated by the cabinet as a principal shall not be counted as an active period of service.
14. Absorption to the grade system
14.1 This service minute shall only be applied to the officers who are in the service as at the effective date. All
the officers who receive salaries under salary scale MN-03-2006-A provided by the Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006 and circulars issued consequently on prescribed dates shall be absorbed in the
following subjected to the provisions in Section 4.4, Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.
14.2 Period of service shall be calculated based on the date of appointment to each post or grade. However, the
date of salary increment of the relevant officer shall not be changed due to this absorption and that shall be
applied without any change as the increment date existed before the absorption. Further, the officer shall
not be placed on the next higher salary step as per the section 4.4, chapter VII of the Establishments Code
due to becoming the salary step received by the relevant officer corresponding to new salary step.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
13A
14.3 Absorption to the Grade III of the service
Officers in grade II of class II of the service minute as at the effective date of this service minute.
14.4 Absorption to the grade II of the service
Officers in Grade I of Class II of the service minute as at the effective date of this service minute.
14.5 Absorption to the Grade I of the service
Officers in class I of the service minute as at the effective date of this service minute.
14.6 Absorption to the Special Grade of the service
Officers in Special Class of the service minute as at the effective date of this service minute.
15. Interim provisions  :
The interim provisions shall be effective up to three years from the effective date of this service minute. When the
officers, who are absorbed to grade III and II as at the effective date of this service minute, are promoted, the service
minute of Technical Service at the Irrigation Department published in the Gazette Extraordinary  No. 1069/19 and dated
05/03/1999 shall be made applicable during the interim period. (These interim provisions shall be applicable for the
officers recruited under service minute of Technical Service at the Irrigation Department published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1069/19 and dated 05/03/1999 which was in effect before the implementation of the new service
minute. Other conditions shall be as per the new service minute.)
16. Other  :
16.1.1 General conditions in Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission published in the
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20/02/2009 and the provisions of the Establishments
Code shall be applicable for each appointment.
16.1.2 Matters not provided for in the Minute shall be determined by the Public Service Commission.
16.1.3 In case of an inconsistency between 
texts in Sinhala, Tamil and English versions, the Sinhala
version shall prevail.
Schedule  01
1. Name of the examination- Open competitive examination for the recruitment of apprentices to the Engineering
Assistants’ Service.
2. Particulars of the Examination- (A question paper with multiple choice questions.)
Question paper Time Total marks Pass marks
Intelligence Test 1 hour 100 40
Technological question paper 2 hours 100 40
3. Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation
4. Syllabus for the examination
Question paper Syllabus
Intelligence Test Knowledge in logical and analytical thinking, decision making ability
and making judgments are assessed.
Technological question paper Knowledge in subject such as basic algebra, coordinate geometry,
Calculus, trigonometry and hydrostatics, statics, electricity, mechanics,
heat, statistics is assessed.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
14A
Schedule   02
1. Name of the examination- Open competitive examination for the recruitment to the Engineering Assistants’
Grade III
2. Particulars of the Examination- (A question paper with multiple choice questions.)
Question paper Time Total marks Pass marks
Intelligence Test 1 hour 100 40
3. Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation
4. Syllabus for the examination
Question paper Syllabus
Intelligence Test Knowledge in logical and analytical thinking, decision
making ability and making judgments are assessed.
Schedule   03
1. Name of the examination- Limited competitive examination for the recruitment to the Engineering Assistants’
Service as apprentices.
2. Particulars of the Examination- (A question paper with multiple choice questions.)
Question paper Time Total marks Pass marks
Intelligence Test 1 hour 100 40
Technological question paper 2 hours 100 40
3. Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation
4. Syllabus for the examination
Question paper Syllabus
Intelligence Test Knowledge in Logical and analytical thinking, decision
making ability and making judgments are assessed.
Technological question paper Knowledge in subject such as basic algebra, coordinate
geometry, calculus, trigonometry and hydrostatics, statics,
electricity, mechanics, heat, statistics is assessed.
Schedule 04
1. Name of the examination- First efficiency bar examination in the post of Engineering Assistant.
2. Particulars of the Examination-
Question paper Time Total marks Pass marks
Surveying and leveling(Written test) 03 hours 100 40
Quantity Surveying (Written test) 03 hours 100 40
(Mathematics, Physics)

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
15A
Note: Engineering Assistants those who have passed the junior technical examination are also deemed to
have passed the first efficiency bar.
3. Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation
4. Time frame of the examination- twice a year
5. Syllabus for the Examination
Question paper Syllabus
Measuring and leveling (Written test)  Fundamentals in Surveying
 Plotting of a traverse survey plan with the aid of Theodolite
 Tacheometric survey
 Baseline survey
 Use of different types of levels and its applications
 Adjustments of a leveling instrument
 Drawing longitudinal sections and cross sections
 Contour survey
 V olume calculations
Quantity Surveying (Written test) For a structural part,
1. Preparing a quantity sheet using standard specifications
2. Preparation of a bar schedule
3. Preparation of an estimate
Schedule  05
1. Name of the examination- Second efficiency bar examination in the post of Engineering Assistant.
2. Particulars of the Examination-
Question paper Time Total marks Pass marks
Financial Regulations 3 hours 100 40
Establishment code and 3 hours 100 40
Departmental regulations
Note: In order to pass the examination, a mark which is not less than at least 40% should be obtained for each
subject. Engineering Assistants those who have passed the first and second sections of the first half and
subjects in (a) of the second section of the second half of the senior technical examination are also deemed to
have passed the second efficiency bar.
3. Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation
4. Time frame of the examination- twice a year

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
16A
5. Syllabus for the examination
Question paper Syllabus
(1) Consolidated fund
(2) Annual Estimates
(3) Variations of Annual Estimates
(4) Chief Accountants/Accountants, Revenue Accounting, Officers
Authorizing payments, approval, certification, delegation of
authority, losses and waivers, custody of Public Funds,
procedure relating to payments and receipts, procedure relating
to dishonored cheques
(5) Security of Public funds, Board of Survey, Overdrafts, Bank
Accounts
(6) Work and Services- Construction Departments
(7) Procedure relating to verification of stores, Acceptance and
Procuring supply
(8) Contracts- Variations from Tender Procedure (Forced Accounts)
I. Office Administration and Establishment Code Sections IV
and VII of the Procedural Rules of the Public Service
Commission
Following sections of the Establishments Code
VII- Overtime, Holiday and Holiday Pay and Allowances
XII- Railway Warrants
XIV - Travel on duty within the Island
XIX- Government Quarters
XXVIII- Administration Procedures and  Practices
XXX- Right of Government or its officers
XLVII- General Conduct and Discipline
II. Departmental Provisions
Part VI of Irrigation Ordinance- 8,9,10,14 and other provisions and
Provisions of  District  Agricultural Committee
Provisions on Farmer Organizations of  the Agrarian Development Act,
Amended Irrigation Ordinance  No. 13 of 1994
General understanding  on departmental activities including flood
protection act and other related ordinances.
Schedule   06
1. Name of the examination- Third efficiency bar examination in the post of Engineering Assistant.
2. Particulars of the Examination-
Question paper Time Total marks Pass marks
Project Management 3 hours 100 40
Irrigation Project Planning 3 hours 100 40
Financial regulations
Establishments Code and
Departmental Regulations

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF  THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI LANKA - 07.04.2017
17A
Note: In order to pass the examination, a mark which is not less than at least 50% should be obtained for
each subject. Engineering Assistants those who have passed the sections I and II of the first half and subjects
(a) and (b) of the section II of the second half of the senior technical examination are also deemed to have
passed the third efficiency bar.
3. Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation
4. Time frame of the examination- twice a year
5. Syllabus for the examination
Question paper Syllabus
Project Management Assessing the knowledge in the field of management about financial,
machinery and equipment, labour and construction materials in related
to Irrigation projects.
Irrigation Project Planning Assessing the basic design knowledge on all the sections in related
to Irrigation projects (Embankments, buildings, roads, channels,
sluices, spillways, anicuts, gates, etc.)
Schedule  07
Interview for the promotion to the special grade of the Engineering Assistants’ Service
Allocation of marks is as below.
1. Seniority 60 marks
(10 marks per each year lapsed upon completing an active and
satisfactory service period of 06 years after being promoted to
Grade I of the Engineering Assistants’ Service at the Irrigation
Department.)
2. Knowledge and understanding about the field 30 marks
Investigation - 6 marks
Construction - 6 marks
Water management - 6 marks
Business management - 6 marks
Operation and maintenance - 6 marks
3. Performance appraisal (of preceding five years) 10 marks
Excellent - 10 marks
Above average - 08 marks
Satisfactory - 06 marks
Unsatisfactory - 00 marks
04- 666
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.