

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1181
1181
wxl 1"867 - 2014 cqks 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'06'13
No. 1,867 – FRIDAY , JUNE 13, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1184
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1184
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th July, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th June,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Parts I:III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,866 of 06.06.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1182
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1183
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1184
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 14th Jul y, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
26th May, 2014.
T
HE  SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Homagama Post of Additional Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Marriages (General) of Hewagam General, District Secretariat,
Korale Division in Athurugiriya Area Elvitigala Mawatha, Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
06–311
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
LIMITED   COMPETITIVE   EXAMINATION  FOR
APPOINTMENT   TO  THE   SUPRA  CLASS  OF
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE  - 2013
REVISIONS are made to Name of the examination, Section 1.
Qualifications, 6. Qualifications, 7. (b) the closing date of application,
Section 12, Section 13 and Section 15, of the gazette notification
“LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE SUPRA CLASS OF PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE - 2013” published in
the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1831
dated 04 th October 2013 as per the service minute of Public
Management Assistants' Service published in the Gazette of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  No. 1840/34 dated
11.12.2013, as follows. As per the said notification, candidates
who have already applied for this examination should not submit
applications again.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1185
Name of the Examination .– LIMITED COMPETITIVE
EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE SUPRA
GRADE OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE
- 2013.
Section 01 :
 It is hereby notified that the written examination for appointment
of officers to Supra Grade of Public Management Assistants' Service
will be held in the three languages, i.e. Sinhala, Tamil and English,
by the Commissioner General of Examinations in September, 2014.
Section 6 :
Qualifications .– Following officers attached to the Central
Government who have completed a satisfactory service of 05 years
immediately preceding 01.07.2013 shall be eligible to sit for this
examination :-
(a) Officers in Class I of Public Management Assistants'
Service ;
(b) Officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service who have completed at least an active and
satisfactory service of not less than 08 years ;
(c) Officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants'
Service who have possessed a Degree from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Note.– "Period of Satisfactory Service" shall mean a period
of service during which the officer has earned all
increments required to be earned by the officer during
that period by way of performing the duty of a Public
Officer efficiently and diligently and passing all
Efficiency Bars prescribed and further satisfying all
the qualifications prescribed for the confirmation in
service and no any punishable offence committed by
the offier.
"Period of Active Service" shall mean the actual period served
by the officer engaged in the duties assigned to him and
drawing the salary attached to his post. However, all the
periods on No Pay other than Maternity Leave approved
by the Government shall not be counted for the period of
active service.
Section 7(b) Closing date of application :
Applications perfected by candidates should be forwarded
through the respective Head of Department to reach the
"Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch, Department of Examinations, P . O. Box 1503,
Colombo" on or before 14th of July, 2014 by Registered Post.
Section 12 :
Scheme of examination.– Written test will consist of the following
subjects :
Question Paper Duration Marks
(1) Office Management 02 Hours 100
(2) Office Systems 02 Hours 100
(3) Establishment Procedures 02 Hours 100
and Procedural Rules
(4) Public Financial management 02 Hours 100
(5) General Paper 1 1/2 Hours 100
Section 13 :
Syllabus.– Knowledge in the following subjects is expected from
the candidates :–
(i) Office Management (Duration 02 Hours, Marks 100)  :
Organization structure, principles of organization, job
analysis and evaluation, leadership, supervision and
decision making, communication, public relations,
co-ordination and problem solving ;
(ii) Office System (Duration 02 Hours, Marks 100)  :
Principles of office systems, office procedures, records
and filing, control and designing of forms,
correspondence, control over the use of office equipment,
office layout and premises, job description, study on
work and systems, work measurement, Manual of Office
Operations ;
(iii) Establishments procedures and procedural rules
(Duration 02 hours, Marks 100) :
Procedures to be followed in recruitment to the Public
service, establishments matters of public officers,
maintenance of a personal file, delegation of authority in
making appointments to the Public Service, transfers,
promotion and termination of services, welfare and
privileges entitled to public officers, the general knowledge
on regulations and circulars hitherto issued by the
Government will be tested ;
(iv) Public Financial Management (Duration 02 hours, Marks
100) :
Annual Estimates and the responsibilities of an Accounting
Officer, financial control, delegation of financial
responsibility, receipt of money, accounting and
acceptance, payments, custody of public money, imprests
and bank accounts, supplies and services, procurement
activities, board of survey, audit queries, ledgers used in
Government offices, summaries of income and
expenditure, bank reconciliation and books used in
financial management, general knowledge of circulars and
regulations hitherto issued on the use of the public finance
will be tested.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1186
(v) General Paper (Duration 1 1/2 hours, Marks 100)  :
The nature of Public Administration, structure of Public
Administration, Public policy and new public reforms,
fundamental rights, human rights, Human Rights
Commission, Ombudsman, Parliamentary Committee for
Public Petitions, office culture, ethics and values, creation
of proper office environment and welfare of staff,
sociological recognition of official and civil status,
obligations of public officers towards the recipients.
Section 15.– Appointments shall be made subject to the general
conditions governing the appointments of public service, rules and
regulations stipulated in the Public Management Assistants' Service
Minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1840/34 dated 11 th of December
2013 and any amendment already made and will be made thereto in
due course.
On the order of the Public Services Commission,
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
29th of May, 2014.
06–352
––––––––––––––––
OPEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  3  GRADE  III  OF
INFORMATION  AND  COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY  SERVICE - 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri
Lanka for the open  competitive examination for recruitment to the
post in Class 3 Grade III of Information and Communication
Technology Service - 2012.
2. Candidates who satisfy the prescribed qualifications will be
selected on merit, on the results of a written examination to be
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination to the
posts in Class 3 Grade III the Information and Communication
Technology Service.
3. Number of persons to be appointed is 640. Effective date of
appointments will be determined by the Director General of
Combined Services. Further, the Director General of Combined
Services reserves the right to refrain from filling any or all of the
vacancies.
4. Three percent (3 %) of the existing number of vacancies will
be reserved for persons with disabilities. Only 3% of the persons
with disabilities who secure highest marks in the examination and
qualify will be selected for appointments. The minimum level of
marks candidates should score to be selected for appointment is
50%. A candidate selected for an appointment will be referred to a
Special Medical Board and, by a report obtained from a medical
specialist; he/ she should establish the disablement and the fact
that, it does not hinder performance of duties of the respective
post.
5. Salary.– Monthly salary scale entitled to grade 3- III, 3- II
and 3-I of Information and Communication Technology Service is
Rs. 14,425 -, 10xI45 -, llx170 -, 6x240 -, 14x320 -, Rs. 23,665 (MT-
I-2006-A). The promotion to Grade II should be obtained to go
beyond the monthly salary of Rs. 16,045/-and promotion to Grade
I should be obtained to go beyond the monthly salary of Rs. 17,985.
6. This post is permanent and pensionable.
7. Qualifications.– Following qualifications are applicable for
the recruitment to the posts in class 3 Grade III of Information and
Communication Technology Service :–
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) (i) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than
35 years of age on the closing date of applications ;
(ii) Applicants serving in permanent posts in public
service who have satisfied the qualifications should
not have reached the age of 45 years ;
(c) Should be of good character and sound physical health ;
(d) Should be bound serve at any part of the island ;
(e) Educational Qualifications :
(1) Should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in six (06)
subjects with five (05) Credit passes including credit
passes for Language, Mathematics and English
Language at not more than two sittings ;
and
(2) Should have Passed 3 subjects at the G .CE. (A/L)
Examination (General English is not considered as a
subject).
Note: Officers in Provincial Public Services are not allowed
to Apply for this examination under the age limit
mentioned in 7(B) ii.
(f) Professional Qualifications :
Should have followed at least a course on Computer/
Information Technology at the level of National V ocational
Qualification (NVQ) five (05) or above.
It is compulsory for every applicant to satisfy the relevant
qualifications on or before the closing date of applications.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1187
8. Scheme of the examination :
8.1 The examination will consist of two papers. This
examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil or English
medium. Candidates will not be allowed to change the
language medium applied once it is selected.
8.2 Subjects and the marks allocated for each subject are
mentioned below :
Marks Duration (Hours)
(i) ICT Writing Test 100 2
(ii) Aptitude
100  1
Total marks 200
ICT Writing Test.– This paper consists of questions which test
general ICT knowledge of candidates. It could consist of
multiple choice questions as well as questions for short
answers. A candidate should answer for all the questions.
The candidate will be tested in areas operating systems,
software, hardware, word processing, spread sheets, data
base management, internet and email.
Aptitude.– This paper consists of 50 multiple choice questions
to test statistical ability, logical reasoning and general
intelligence of the candidate. A candidate should answer for
all the questions.
Note.- These question papers will be designed to test the
eligibility and ability of the candidate for the duties.
Although this is a competitive examination, candidates
should secure at least 40% of the marks allocated for each
subject and an aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks
of the examination. Appointments will strictly be made
in the order of the marks scored, depending on the number
of vacancies set apart to be filled on the results of the
competitive examination.
8.3 The result sheet containing the name list of applicants,
who have passed the examination and equivalent to the
number of vacancies expected to be filled, will be issued to
the Director General of Combined Services by the
Commissioner General of Examination. In addition to the
above, the Commissioner General of Examination will issue
personally to all the applicants a result sheet containing
marks for each subject, total marks and the merit.
9. Penalty for furnishing false information.– The candidate should
be very careful to include the correct particulars in the application.
If it is found that any candidate is not eligible according to the rules
and regulations of this examination his/her candidature can be
cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination.
Further, if it is found that any information furnished by a candidate
is false he/ she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public
service.
10. Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500/-. This fee
can be paid to any Divisional or District Secretariat under the Head
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examination. The receipt
obtained should be affixed in the relevant cage of the application so
as not to be detached. (A photocopy of the receipt should be kept
for further reference). Under no circumstances the examination fee
will be refunded and money orders and stamps are not accepted.
11. Applications .– Applications should be prepared in the
following manner using papers of size A4 (21 X 29 cm) :–
(a) Cages from 1 to 3 should appear on the first side of the
page ;
(b) Cages from 4 onwards should appear on the other pages ;
(c) The title of the examination appearing in the specimen
should be indicated in English language as well, on both
Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in
accordance with the specimen form will be rejected without
any notice. Applications of those who haven't paid
examination fee on or before due date will also be rejected.
Candidates should be responsible for any loss incurred by
them due to incomplete applications. It would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form
and it is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure
that the application form perfected by him/herself complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice.
Otherwise, the application could be rejected.
Note.– The town and number of the town in which the
applicant wishes to sit the examination as per Schedule
01 shall be indicated as first and second choice on the
order of preference. Candidates are not allowed to
change the town in which they apply to sit the
examination. At the instances where the number of
candidates apply for a certain town, is not sufficient
to maintain an examination centre, they will be directed
to the town which they have indicated as second
preference. If there is not sufficient number of
candidates even at the second centre, the candidates
will be directed to an adjoining city. However the
Commissioner General of Examination shall take action
to conduct the examination only at Colombo if it is
found that there is no sufficient number of applicants
at all or most of examination centers.
11.1 All applicants who have paid prescribed examination fees
and forwarded their applications on or before the prescribed
date will be allowed to sit the competitive examination, by
the Commissioner General of Examinations, on the
presumption that only those who possess qualifications
as indicated in the Gazette Notification have forwarded
their applications. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate to sit the competitive examination does not mean
to have accepted that he possesses all the qualifications for
this post. If it was found at the interview that the applicant
does not possess the required qualifications as per the
Gazette Notification, his or her candidature will be cancelled.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1188
11.2 The words “Open Competitive Examination for
Recruitment to the Posts in Class 3 Grade III of Sri Lanka
Information and Communication Technology Service -
2014” should be written on the top left-hand corner of the
envelope in which the application is enclosed.
11.3 Candidates’ signature in the application form should have
been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
Justice of the Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary
Public, Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an officer
holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer
holding a permanent post in the Public Service whose annual
Salary is Rs. 240,360 or above.
11.4 Applications duly perfected should be sent by registered
post to reach the following address on or before 14th of
July, 2014.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Overseas Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
12. Sitting the Examination.– A notification will be published in
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand
at the time of calling the Department of Examinations: i.e. certified
photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at your
possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the
admission card should be sent.
13. Candidates should furnish one of the following documents
to the Supervisor of Examination in support of their identity.
' (i) National Identity Card issued by the Department for
Registration of Persons.
 (ii) A valid Passport.
14. The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/ she has the required qualifications to sit
the examination. Candidates shall be bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination
for the purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable
to be subjected to any punishment imposed by Commissioner
General of Examination for violation of these rules and regulations.
15. Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Director
General of Combined Services. All candidates are bound to comply
with the general examination rules published in this Gazette.
16. If any inconsistency or contradiction is observed among
Sinhala, Tamil and English texts, action shall be taken considering
the Sinhala text as the correct one.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Service,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
29th of May, 2014.
Specimen  Application
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO CLASS 3 GRADE III OF SRI LANKA
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICA TION TECHNOLOGY
SERVICE - 2014
(Indicate the relevant symbol/number in the cage)
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Indicate the town and number of the town in which you intend to
sit the exam as per Gazette Notification. (Refer schedule I for exam
centers and numbers of the towns)
Town Number of the town
1st Selection
2nd Selection
1.0 1.1 Name, with initials at the end :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals Example :
GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
1.2 Name in full (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
1.4 National Identity Card No.
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which admission card should be sent :––––––.
(In English block capitals)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1189
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at 14.07.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Telephone number (If available) :
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
4.1 Particulars of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(First sitting) :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.1.1 Particulars on G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(Second sitting) :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 Particulars of G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
4.3 If a degree has been obtained from a recognized university,
(i) University :––––––––––––.
(ii) Degree :––––––––––––.
(iii) Year of Examination :––––––––––––.
(iv) Main Subjects :
1. ..........................
2. ..........................
3. ..........................
4. ..........................
5.0 Professional Qualifications :
5.1 Name of the Computer Course followed :––––––––––––.
Institute from where the course was followed :––––––––.
Year :––––––––––––.
Duration of the Course :––––––––––––.
5.2 Professional experience and other qualifications :––––––.
6.0 Have you ever been convicted from a court for any charge ?
(Indicate 3 in the cage) (If yes, give details) :––––––––––––.
Yes N o
7.0 Details of the receipt of payment of examination fee :
(i) Office to which the examination fee was paid :–––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the receipt :––––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :
Affix the receipt here so as not to be detached
8.0 Certification of the candidate :
(a) I, declare that information given in this form is true to the
best of my knowledge. I agree to bear any loss incurred
by due to not completing some sections of the application
and completing incorrectly. Further, I declare that all the
sections of this application are perfected correctly and
the receipt No. ...................... dated obtained at the
payment of the examination fee is affixed herein and
certified copies of the documents/papers to prove the
professional qualifications stated in the Examination
Notification are attached herewith.
(b) I am aware that if the declaration made by me is found to
be false I am liable to disqualification before appointment
and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected
after appointment.
(c) Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting the examination.
(d) I will not change any of the information furnished here.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1190
9.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................... who submits
this application is known to me personally, he/she placed his/her
signature in my presence on ................................ and further he/she
has paid the due examination fee and has affixed the receipt and a
copy of the paper submitted by the applicant to prove that he/she
has satisfied the relevant professional qualifications is certified as a
true copy and attached herewith.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
10.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Only for the applicants
in Public Service) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................... who is
submitting this application is serving in permanent and pensionable
this in this department and he/she is eilgible to sit for this examination
as per regulations stipulated in the this Gazette Notification, that he/
she could be released from his/her present post, if selected for the
position.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department/
Authorized Officer.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Place official frank)
S
CHEDULE I
Towns in which Examination Centers are arranged
Town Number of the Town
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mulativu 12
Vavuniya 13
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Town Number of the Town
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Moneragala 22
Kegalle 23
Rathnapura 24
Kilinochchi 25
06–353
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY OF  LIVESTOCK   AND  RURAL
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
First  Efficiency  Bar  Examination  for  the  Officers  in
Sri  Lanka  Animal  Production  and  Health
Service – 2013(2014)
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
officers in the animal Production and Health Service will be held in
Peradeniya in September, 2014. Applications are called from the
officers who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health
Service as at 31st December, 2013.
02. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for
the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the same time.
03. The syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency
Bar Examination 1 are stated in the service minute. Accordingly
Syllabus for the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Animal
Production and Health Service is given in Appendix  "A".
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
04. The prescribed subjects for the Efficiency Bar Examination
I are given below :
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service
Subject Subject Duration Aggregate Minimum
No. (hours) Marks marks to
pass the
Examination
01 Financial Systems 02 100 40
02 Administration 02 100 40
03 Dept. Regulations - I 02 100 40
04 Dept. Regulations - II 02 100 40
05. The attention of the candidates who sit for the Efficiency
Bar Examinations is drawn to Paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :–

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1191
“The medium for departmental examinations (including
Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the
language in which the officer sat for the Competitive
Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official
Language. But the officers who entered the service without a
competitive examination should select either the Language in
which the officer qualified for entry to the Public Service or
the Official Language”.
06. This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium. Permission will not be given to change the medium applied
by the candidate later.
07. If found later that the candidate has sat for the examination
in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature will be
cancelled.
08. The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 size
paper using both sides of it.  It should be noted that the Cages 01 to
08 should appear on page I of the paper and the balance on the
other side of the paper. The application should be filled by the
candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per the
specimen form and the incomplete application forms will be rejected
without informing the candidate. The candidate is advised to keep
a Photostat Copy of the completed application for his use. Further
the candidate should check the applications prepared by himself
with the specimen application appeared in the notice. The name of
the examination should be written in English too in the applications
prepared in Sinhala or Tamil medium.
09. The examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by the
rules and regulations enacted by him. The relevant rules and
regulations are appeared at the end of this notice. If a candidate
violates any of the rules is liable to punishment at the discretion of
the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Applications should be forwarded through the Head of
Department/Institute by Registered Post to reach the Director
General of Animal Production and Health to the address given
below on or before 30th June, 2014. The applications received after
the closing date will be rejected :–
The Director General of Animal Production and Health,
Department of Animal Production and Health,
P. B. 13,
Gatambe,
Peradeniya.
11. The admission cards will be sent to the candidates who have
forwarded their applications as per the requirements. A paper notice
will be published by the Department of Examinations as soon as
the admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission
card is not received 02-03 days after the publication of the notice,
it should be informed to the Department of Examinations as stated
in the notice. The candidate should indicate his/her name, address,
NIC number and the name of the Examination that he/she applied
for. The candidates those who reside outside Colombo should
request for a copy of the admission card giving the Fax Number and
the above detail in a request letter and fax it to the number indicated
in the Gazette Notification. It is useful to keep certified photostat
copies of the application and receipt of the payment and receipt of
the registration for your own convenience.
12. The claims submitted later by the candidates who have
failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above Paragraph 11
will not be considered.
13. Only the National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or the valid passport will be accepted
for the examinations conducted by the Department of Examinations
in order to prove the identity of the candidate at the examination
hall.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the
examination, on the following basis :–
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this
examination for the first time,
(b) For each subsequent sitting :
For whole examination Rs. 1,000 0
Single subject Rs. 500 0
Candidates who have already sat or applied for this examination
are required to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. The above
examination fees should be paid to any District or Divisional
Secretariat situated in the Island to be credited to Revenue Head
No. 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations and
the receipt of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in
the application. Further it may be useful to keep a photostat copy
of it.
15. Issuing of an Admission Card to a candidate will not be
considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the
examination.
16. If there is any discrepancy regarding the interpretations, the
Sinhala version shall prevail.
K. M. T. K
ENDARAGAMA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and
Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
No. 45, St. Michel Road,
Colombo 03,
22nd April, 2014.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1192
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS – SRI LANKA
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA
ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE - 2013(2014)
The name of the examination should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope.
Language Medium of Examination  :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Give the relevant number in the box)
01. ( a) Last name with initials (in block letters)  :––––––––––.
(Ex. : NIMALSIRI K. A.)
(b) Name denoted by initials (in block letters)  :–––––––––.
02. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
03. Designation (in block letters) :––––––––––.
Name of Department (in block letters) :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block letters)
:––––––––––.
05. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health Service :––––––––––.
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph
04 of the notification (should be written clearly) :
(i) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(ii) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(iii) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(iv) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
07. State whether you have sit for the whole/part of examination
previously  :–––––––––.
If so give the subjects, year and the month :–––––––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am
entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. Further I am prepared to abide the conditions enacted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct
of the examination.
09. Examination fee Rs. :––––––––––.
Paying Office :––––––––––.  Receipt No. :––––––––––.
To affix the receipt
(keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health
Forwarded :-
*I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is
eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications
to sit for the examination in the medium stated in the application.
I also certify that the receipt paying the prescribed examination
fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(*May be deleted, fee not be paid)
ANNEXURE “A”
(a) The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in the Sri
Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise
the following subjects :
1. Financial systems ;
2. Administration ;
3. Departmental Regulation – I
4. Departmental Regulation - II
1. Financial Systems :
The examination in Financial Systems will be based on the
followings :
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka
(Except Chapter X) ;
Note.- A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks
for a pass.
2. Administration :
The examination in Administration will be based on the
followings :
(a) Office Systems, Office Management and knowledge on
office organization ;

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1193
(b) The Establishments Code Chapters I–XXII amended by
the Service Procedure of Public Service Commission and
Establishment Code Chapters VI, VII, VIII, IX, XII, XIII,
XIV , XV , XVI, XVII, XVIII, XIX,  XXXIII, XXV , XXVI,
XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII
AND XLVIII) ;
Note.– A candidate of should obtain 40% of the total
marks for a pass.
3. Departmental Regulations - 1
The examination in Departmental Regulations will be based on
the followings :
A two hours paper on the following subjects :
Animal Act, the Animal Disease Act and related regulations,
Departmental Orders and circulars relevant to Veterinary
Surgeon's Services
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a
pass.
4. Departmental Regulations - II
A three hours paper on the following subjects :–
(a) Dissemination of specimens, laboratory identification
including post - mortem examination. Pregnancies
diagnosis, vaccines for contagious and infectious disease,
sera logical test.
(b) Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations,
principles relevant to breeding and rearing of calves,
hatching and rearing of chicks by incubation, animal
nutrition food rationing usage. pasture fodder cultivation,
preparation of silages and Livestock Management.
(c) Milk production, bottling and transportation of
pasteurized milk, bacteria and fat in milk, separation of
cream and processing of butter, ghee and curd.
(d) Analysis of meat, including slaughtering of animal in
abattoirs, identification of meat.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the marks for a
pass.
06–256/1
–––––––––––––––
SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION
AND   HEALTH  SERVICE – 2013(2014)
IT is hereby notified that the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in the Animal Production and Health Service will be held
in Peradeniya in September, 2014. Applications are called from the officers who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Hea lth
Service as at 31st December, 2013.
02. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the both Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. The syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations II are stated in the service minute. Accordingly
Syllabus for the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service is given in Appendix  "A".
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
04. The prescribed subjects for the Efficiency Bar Examination II are given below :
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service
Efficiency Bar II
Subject No. Subjects Duration (hours) Aggregate Marks Passing Marks
01 Part 01 3 100 40
02 Part 02 3 100 40
03 Part 03 - Paper I 3 100 40
04 Part 03 - Paper II 3 100 40
05 Part 03 - Paper III 3 100 40
06 Part 03 - Paper IV 3 100 40
07 Part 03 - Paper V 3 100 40
08 Part 03 - Paper VI 3 100 40
09 Part 03 - Paper VII 3 100 40
10 Part 03 - Paper VIII 3 100 40
11 Part 03 - Paper IX 3 100 40
12 Part 03 - Paper X 3 100 40
13 Part 03 - Paper XI 3 100 40

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1194
Note.–  The candidates who sit for 2nd Efficiency Bar
Examination should select either Part 01 or  02 and two
question papers from the above II papers in Part 03.
Candidate should obtain at least 40% marks for each
paper.
05. The attention of the candidates who sit for the Efficiency
Bar Examinations is drawn to Paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :–
“The medium for departmental examinations (including
Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be
the language in which the officer sat for the Competitive
Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official
Language. But the officers who entered the service without
a competitive examination should select either the
Language in which the officer qualified for entry to the
Public Service or the Official Language”.
06. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of
Examinations enabling the candidates to answer the following papers
in Sinhala, Tamil, English. Permission will not be given to change
the medium applied by the candidate later :–
07. If found later that the candidate has sat for the examination
in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature will be
cancelled.
08. The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 size
paper using both sides of it. It should be noted that the Cages 01 to
08 should appear on page I of the paper and the balance on the
other side of the paper. The application should be filled by the
candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per the
specimen form and the incomplete applications forms will be rejected
without informing the candidate. The candidate is advised to keep
a Photostat Copy of the application for his use. Further the
candidate should check the applications prepared by himself with
the specimen application appeared in the notice. The name of the
examination should be written in English too in the applications
prepared in Sinhala or Tamil medium.
09. The examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by rules
and regulations enacted by him. The relevant rules and regulations
are appeared at the end of this notice. If a candidate violates any of
the rules is liable to punishment at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Applications should be forwarded through the Head of
Department/Institute by Registered Post to reach the Director
General of Animal Production and Health to the address given
below on or before 30th of June, 2014. The applications received
after the closing date will be rejected :–
Director General of Animal Production and Health,
Department of Animal Production and Health,
P. B. 13,
Getambe,
Peradeniya.
11. The admission cards will be sent to the candidates who have
forwarded their applications as per the requirements. A paper notice
will be published by the Department of Examinations as soon as
the admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission
card is not received 02-03 days after the publication of the notice,
it should be informed to the Department of Examinations as stated
in the notice. The candidate should indicate his/her name, addres,
NIC number and the name of the Examination that he/she applied
for. The candidates those who reside outside Colombo should request
for a copy of the admission card giving the Fax Number and the
above detail in a request letter and fax it to the number indicated in
the Gazette Notification. It is useful to keep certified photostat
copies of the application and receipt of the payment and receipt of
the registration for your own convenience.
12. The claims submitted later by the candidates who have
failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above Paragraph 11
will not be considered.
13. Only the National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or the valid Passport will be accepted
for the examinations conducted by the Department of Examinations
in order to prove the identity of the Candidate at the examination
hall.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the
examination, on the following basis :–
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this
examination for the first time,
(b) For each subsequent sitting :
For whole examination Rs. 1,000 0
Single subject Rs. 500 0
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are required
to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. The above examination
fees should be paid to any District or Divisional Secretariat situated
in the Island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examination and the receipt of it should
be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the application. Further
it may be useful to keep a photostat copy of it.
15. Issuing of an Admission Card to a candidate will not be
considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the
examination.
16. If there is any discrepancy regarding the interpretations, the
Sinhala version shall prevail.
K. M. T. K
ENDARAGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and
Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
No. 45, St. Michel Road,
Colombo 03,
22nd May, 2014.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1195
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS – SRI LANKA
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA
ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE - 2013(2014)
THE name of the examination should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelope.
Language Medium of Examination  :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Give the relevant number in the box)
01. ( a) Last name with initials (in block letters)  :––––––––––.
(Ex. : GUNAWARDHANA, W. G. B. S. K.)
(b) Name denoted by initials (in block letters)  :–––––––––.
02. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
03. Designation (in block letters)  :––––––––––.
Name of Department (in block letters) :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block letters)
:––––––––––.
05. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health Service :––––––––––.
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph
04 of the notification (should be written clearly) :
(i) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(ii) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(iii) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(iv) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
(v) Subject No. : Subject :–––––––––.
07. State whether you have sit or applied for the whole/part of
examination previously  :–––––––––.
If so give the subjects, year and the month :–––––––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am
entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. Further I am prepared to abide the conditions enacted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct
of the examination.
09. Examination fee Rs. :––––––––––.
Paying Office :––––––––––.  Receipt No. :––––––––––.
To affix the receipt
(keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health
Forwarded :-
*I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is
eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications
to sit for the examination in the medium stated in the application.
I also certify that the receipt paying the prescribed examination
fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(*May be deleted, fee not be paid)
APPENDIX  “A”
The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka
Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the following
subjects.
Part I Sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2,
8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2, 9:4, 9:6, 9:7 of the Syllabus.
The syllabus can be obtained from the Director General
of Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya and the entire Provincial Directors' offices
of Department of Animal Production and Health.
Part II Sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1,
10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3, 10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8,
10:4:1 of the syllabus. The Syllabus can be obtained
from the Director General of Department of AP&H,
Peradeniya and all Provincial Directors' office of
Department of Animal Production and Health.
Part III Paper I – Epidemiology
Paper II - Livestock Economics
Paper III - Veterinary Public Health
Paper IV - Agriculture Extension

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1196
Paper V - Genetics and Breeding
Paper VI - Animal Physiology and reporduction
Paper VII - Housing for animals and Management
Paper VIII - Animal Nutrition
Paper IX - Pasture and Fodder
Paper X - Applied Vet. Microbiolgy and
Immunology
Paper XI - Applied Medicine, Pathology and
Parasitology
Details can be obtained from the Director General of Department
of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya and all Provincial
Directors' office of Department of Animal Production and Health.
06–256/2
–––––––––––––––
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  GRADE   III OF  THE SRI  LANKA
PLANNING  SERVICE  - 2014
FIRST Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of the
Sri Lanka Planning Service will be held in September, 2014  in
Colombo by the Commissioner General of Examinations. The closing
date of applications for the Examination will be 15.07.2014. The
Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English media
and no candidate will be permitted to change the medium later.
02. A specimen application form is given at the end of this
notification. All applicants are advised to prepare their applications
as per specimen given. Application should be prepared only in A4
size paper and item 01 to 04 should be on page 1 and the rest on
page 2. The form should be completed by the applicant in his / her
own hand writing. Further, Name of the Examination should be
written in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and
in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications at the top of the
application. Applications which do not conform with the specimen
application form and those received after the closing date of
applications and incomplete applications will be rejected without
prior notice. All particulars given in the specimen should be
mentioned accurately.
03. The applications should be sent through the Head of the
respective Department (For e.g. : Through Divisional Secretary in
the case of a Divisional Secretarat) by registered post to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch, Department of Examinations, P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo, to reach him on or before 15.07.2014. The name of the
examination should be written on the top left corner of the envelop
containing the application. Retaining a photocopy of the application
would be useful. Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English media and no candidate will be permitted to change the
language medium applied for. Newly recruited officers for the
purpose of official language policy may prepare their applications
in the official language or in Tamil or English in accordance with the
language medium they were recruited.
04. An Admission Card together with a copy of the time table
of the examination will be issued by the Commissioner General of
Examination to all applicants whose applications have been
accepted. Immediately after Admission Cards are dispatched to the
respective candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published
by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. If any candidate
does not receive his / her Admission Card and Time Table 02 or 03
days before the examination, he/ she should notify this fact in
writing immediately to the Department of Examinations.The
candidate should communicate with the Department of Examinations
mentioning his/her full name, Address, National Identity Card
Number and the name of the Examination applied for by the
candidate. In case of the applicants outside Colombo, a letter contains
his/her details aforesaid with a fax number should be faxed to the
Department of Examination in order to send a copy of the admission
card via fax. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
application form, the receipt obtained by making payment of
examination fee and registration receipt at your possession in order
to confirm any particulars requested by the Department of
Examination.
05. Identity .– Candidates should prove their identity to the
supervisor of the examination every time they appear for a subject
in the Examination Hall. For this purpose one of the following
document only will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
for registration of Persons ;
(ii) A V alid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves
the right to cancel or reject the candidature of the
candidate who fails to produce any of the documents
mentioned above.
06. Examination Fees.–  Candidates who sit this examination
will be required to pay Examination Fees as mention below : –
Examination Fees :
(a) First sitting- No fee will be charged
(b) For each Efficiency Bar Examination
 subsequent to the first sitting Rs. 1,000.00
(c) Per subject Rs. 500.00
The relevant examination fees could be paid to the credit of
Revenue Head of the Commissioner General of Examinations
No. 2003-02-13 at any Divisional Secretariat and the receipt obtained
should be securely affixed to the application form at the allotted
place so that it may not get detached. Retaining a copy of the
receipt would be useful.
07. This examinations is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and  all candidates will be required to abide by the
rules and regulations laid down by him in connection with this
examination and issue of results. Rules and regulations published in
Part 1 Para (IIA) of this Gazette for applicants for examinations are

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1197
applicable to this examination. On the first day of the examination,
admission card with the applicants authenticated signature should
be handed over to the supervisor of the examination.
08. Duty leave should be granted by the Head of Departments
to applicants who are eligible to sit for the Examination and to
whom Admission Cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of examinations to enable them to sit for the examination.
Admission Cards will be issued to all the applicants who have
submitted their applications and issuing an Admission card to an
applicant should not be considered by him / her as  a qualification
to sit for examination.
09. Any matters not covered by these regulations will be dealt
with the discretion of the Secretary to  Ministry of Finance and
Planning.
10. Syllabus related to the First Efficiency Bar Examination
given below.
Syllabus of the First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in
Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning Service :
1. The First Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the
following subjects :–
Subject Subject Duration T otal Pass
No. (hours) Marks Marks
(Minimum)
01 Planning concepts 03 100 40
Methodology and
Planning
Institutions
02 Economics 03 100 40
Analysis and
Statistics
03 Project Planning, 03 100 40
Implemention,
Monitoring and
Evaluation -
04 Institutional 03 100 40
Regulations and
Public Sector
Financial Methods
05 English Language 03 100 40
2. An officer can sit for all the subjects in one attempt or in
several attempts and should pass the examination on or
before the relevant period as per the provisions of the
service minute and appointment letter.
3. All the Questions of a  paper should be answered.
Scheme  of  Examination
Subject No. 01.– Planning Concepts Methodology and Planning
Institutions :
(i) National Goals and Priorities, and  policy framework and
programmes for their achievement,
(ii) Methodology for National Planning, major Problem areas
in Planning, participation of the Public, Mobilizations of
resources etc.,
(iii) Nature and source of data for national planning and
collection of data, presentation and analyses of
interpretation, field supervision and investigations,
demographic concepts , economic projections and policy
analysis.
Subject No. 02.- Economic Analysis and Statistics
(i) Principles of economics with special emphasis on the
theories of production and distribution,
(ii) Finance, Banking Systems, International Financial
Methods and Trade,
(iii) Analysis of  F iscal, Monetary, Trade and Tariff policies,
(iv) Economic structure of Sri Lanka,
(v) Review of the Economy,
(vi) Assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower
and  other resources including foreign aid and  their
utilization,
(vii) Economics, scientific and social cases,
(viii) Economic Analysis and Basic Statistical concepts and
methods used in planning,
(ix) Principles of benefit / cost analysis.
Subject No. 03.-  Project planning, Implementation, Review and
Evaluation.
(i) Planning, identification and defining projects and
formulation of projects, selection of policies, theories
and  places estimation of technology, costs and benefits,
technical, financial and economic analysis.
(ii) Implementation and supervision of projects, proper and
timely implementation of  projects and programmes,
preparation of detailed operational plans and
implementation of schedules, co-ordination of monitoring
and progress, control and follow up action.
(iii) Evaluation of projects, Assessment of effectiveness of
projects and programmes analysis of benefits in relation
to costs.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1198
Subject No. 04. -  Institutional Regulations and Public Sector
Financial Methods.
(i) Government Financial Regulations V olume 1
(Excluding Chapter X )
(ii) Establishments  Code : Chapters vii, ix, xi, xii, xv, xxiii,
xxv, xxvi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii, xlvii,
xlviii
Chapters I to VI in volume I of Procedural Rules of the
Public Service Commission..
(iii) Financial Control of Sri Lanka  :
Statutory provisions related to Public Management,
control of the parliament over public finance, The
consolidated fund and its function, objective of
appropriation and appropriation methods. Public revenue,
powers and functions of the Minister of Finance, powers
and functions of the treasury, warrants and imprest
authority, Auditor General and his powers and functions,
public accounts committee (public expenditure committe)
public enterprises committee.
(iv) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting
Officers and Accounting Officers of public revenue, their
powers and functions.
(v) Planning and management of public expenditure
Identifying objectives and tasks of the organizations,
Preparation of   annual revenue and estimates, and taking
final decisions. changes in the approved expenditure
estimates, implementation of virement procedure,
management of cadres in government.
(vi) Government procurement procedure :
Procurement of goods, services and work, composition,
appointment, powers and functions of procurement
committee and Technical evaluation committee, bids
evaluation procedure, management of foreign funded
projects.
Subject No. 05.– English Language
A written test on English Language will held in order to
measure the English Language skills of the applicants related
to Planning, Development, Organizing and Management
subjects.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages the notice
published in Sinhala Language shall prevail.
P. B. J
AY ASUNDERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
13th of June 2014.
FORM OF APPLICA TION
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF THE
SRI LANKA PLANNING SERVICE – 2014
(For office use)
Medium of Examination :
(write the number in this cage.)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Medium applied will not be allowed to change subsequently)
01. Name :
 1.1 Name with Initials  at the End :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block letters
e.g. GUNAWARDHANA, M. G. B. S. K.)
 1.2 Full Name (Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 1.3 National Identity Card  No. :
 02. Official Address :–––––––––––.
(In English Block letters) :
 2.1 Official Address (Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.2 Address to which the Admission Cards should be
sent  (In English Block Letters) :–––––––––––––.
03.  3.1 Sex  :  Male - 0               Female   - 1
(Specify in the cage given)
 3.2 Date of Birth :–
Year :  Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of applications :
 Years :                Months :               Days  :
04. Subjects offered under the Para. 10 of the gazette :
Subject Subject No.
………………………………….
…………………………………
…………………………………
………………....………………
…………………………………
05. Date of Appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning
Service (Indicate the date of assumption of duties) :–––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1199
06. Are you an Old Entrant/New Entrant for the purposes of
Official Language Policy :–––––––––––.
07. Name of the Department (Name of the Divisional Secretariat
in the case of Divisional Secretariat)  :–––––––––––.
08. Whether you are sitting for the examination for the first time
:–––––––––––.
09. If not examination fees paid:
(Paste the receipt securely ; keeping a copy of the
receipt would be useful)
10. I, declare that the foregoing particulars are true and correct and
that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language
medium indicated above. I agree to abide by the decisions
taken by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding
the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date  :––––––––––––.
Note.– The applicant must sign before his/her Head of the
Department, or the officer authorized to sign on his / her
behalf or his/ her Provincial Head.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………….... who is an
officer working in my office and is known to me personally placed
his/her signature before me on ………………………
 –––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
 I Certify that,
(i) The foregoing particulars were checked by me and found
correct and ,
(ii) The applicant is eligible to sit for this examination.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official frank should be placed).
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
06–383/1
SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  GRADE   III  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
PLANNING   SERVICE  - 2014
SECOND Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of
the Sri Lanka Planning Service will be held in September, 2014  in
Colombo, by the Commissioner General of Examinations. The
closing date of applications for the examination will be 15.07.2014.
The examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media and no candidate will be permitted to change the medium
later.
02. A specimen application form is given at the end of this
notification. All applicants are advised to prepare their applications
as per specimen given. Application should be prepared only in A4
size paper and item 01 to 04 should be on page 1 and the rest on
page 2. The form should be completed by the applicant in his / her
own hand writing. Further, Name of the Examination should be
written in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and
in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications at the top of the
application. Applications which do not conform with the specimen
application form and those received after the closing date of
applications and incomplete applications will be rejected without
prior notice. All the particulars given in the specimen should be
mentioned accurately.
03. All applications should be sent through the Head of the
Respective Department (For e. g. Through Divisional Secretary in
the case of a Divisional Secretariat) by registered post to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations. Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examination, P . O. Box 1503,
Colombo to reach him on or before 15.07.2014. The name of the
examination should be written on the top left corner of the envelope
containing the application. Retaining a photocopy of the application
would be useful. Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English media and no candidate will be permitted to change the
language medium applied for. Newly recruited officers for the
purpose of official Language policy may prepare their applications
in the official Language or in Tamil or English in accordance with
the language medium they were recruited.
04. An Admission Card together with a copy of the time
table of the examination will be issued by the Commissioner General
of Examination to all applicants whose applications have been
accepted. Immediately after Admission Cards are dispatched to the
respective candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published
by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. If any candidate
does not receive his / her Admission Card and Time Table 02 or 03
days before the examination, he/ she should notify this fact in
writing immediately to the Department of Examinations.The
candidate should communicate with the Department of Examinations
mentioning his/her full Name, Address, National Identity Card
Number and the Name of the Examination applied for by the
candidate. In case of the applicants outside Colombo, a letter contains
his/her details aforesaid with a Fax Number should be faxed to the
Department of Examination in order to send a copy of the admission
card via fax. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
application form and the receipt obtained by making payment of

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1200
examination fee and the registration receipt at your possession in
order to confirm any particulars requested by the Department of
Examinations.
05. Identity .– Candidates should prove their identity to the
supervisor of the examination every time they appear for a subject
in the Examination Hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents only will be accepted :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
for Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A V alid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves
the right to cancel or reject the candidature of a
candidate who fails to produce any of the documents
mentioned above.
06. Examination Fees.–  Candidates who sit this examination
will be required to pay examination fees on the basis set out below.
Examination Fees :
(i) First sitting- No fee will be charged
(ii) For the whole examination for
each subsequent sitting Rs. 1,000.00
(iii) Per subject Rs. 500.00
The relevant examination fee could be paid to the credit of Revenue
Head of the Commissioner General of Examinations No. 2003-02-13
at any Divisional Secretariat and the receipt obtained should be securely
affixed to the application form at the allotted place so that it may not
get detached. Retaining a copy of the receipt would be useful.
07. This examinations is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and  all candidates will be required to abide by the
rules and regulations laid down by him in connection with this
examination. Rules and regulations published in Part I : Sec. (IIA)
of this Gazette for applicants for examinations are applicable to
this examination. On the first day of the examination, admission
card with the applicants authenticated signature should be handed
over to the supervisor of the examination.
08. Duty leave should be granted by the Head of Departments
to applicants who are eligible to sit for the Examination and to
whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner General
of Examinations to enable them to sit for the examination. Admission
cards will be issued to all the applicants who have submitted
applications and issuing an admission card to an applicant should
not be considered by him / her as  a qualification to sit for examination.
09. Any matters not covered by these regulations will be dealt
with the discretion of the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning.
10. Syllabus related to the Second Efficiency Bar Examination is
given below :
1. Syllabus of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for
Grade III Officers of the Sri Lanka Planning Service :
Subject Subject Duration T otal Pass
No. (hours) Marks Marks
(Minimum)
06 Techniques of 03 100 40
Development
Planning
07 Basic Macro 03 100 40
Economics
08 Current 03 100 40
International
Economic  and
Political Crises
and their impact
on the Sri Lankan
Economy
2. An officer can sit for all the subjects in one attempt or in
several attempts and should pass the examination on or
before the relevant period as per the provisions of the
service minute and appointment letter.
3. All the Questions of a  paper should be answered.
Scheme  of  Examination
Subject No. 6 - Techniques of Development Planning
(a) SWOT  Analysis
(b) Problem Tree
(c) Logical framework Analysis
(d) Cost – Benefit analysis
(e) Pay Back method
(f) Net Present value
(g) Internal Rate of Return
(h) Application of shadow price
Subject No. 7 - Basic Macro Economics
(a) National Accounts
(b) Rate of Economic growth
(c) Balanced National Revenue
(d) Multiplier Effect
(e) Inflation
(f) Rate of Interest
(g) An Introduction to the public financial policies
(h) An Introduction to fiscal policies
(i) Business circles
Subject No. 8 - Current International Economic and Political crisis
and their impact on the Sri Lankan Economy.
(Answers have to be given on topics which have a timely
relevance on emerging world economic conditions).

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1201
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the notices
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice
published in Sinhala language shall prevail.
P. B. JAYASUNDERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
13th of June, 2014.
FORM OF APPLICATION
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF
THE SRI LANKA PLANNING SERVICE – 2014
(For office use)
Medium of Examination :
(write the number in this cage.)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Medium applied will not be allowed to change subsequently).
01. Name :
 1.1 Name with Initials  at the End :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block letters)
e.g. : GUNAWARDHANA, M. G. B. S. K.
 1.2 Full Name (Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 1.3 National Identity Card  No. :
 02. Official Address :–––––––––––.
(In English Block letters) :
 2.1 Official Address (Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.2 Address to which the Admission Cards should be
sent  (In English Block Letters) :–––––––––––––.
03.  3.1 Sex  :  Male - 0               Female   - 1
(Specify in the cage given)
 3.2 Date of Birth :-
Year :  Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of applications -:
 Years :                Months :               Days  :
04. Subjects offered under the Para. 10 of the gazette :
Subject Subject No.
…………………………………
………………....………………
…………………………………
05. Date of Appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning
Service (Indicate the date of assumption of duties) :–––––––.
06. Are you an Old Entrant/New Entrant for the purposes of
Official Language Policy :–––––––––––.
07. Name of the Department (Name of the Divisional Secretariat
in the case of Divisional Secretariat)  :–––––––––––.
08. Whether you are sitting for the examination for the first time
:–––––––––––.
09. If not, examination fees paid:
(Paste the receipt securely ; keeping a copy of the
receipt would be useful)
10. I declare that the foregoing particulars are true and correct and
that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language
medium indicated above. I agree to abide by the decisions
taken by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding
the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date  :––––––––––––.
Note.– The applicant must sign before his/her Head of the
Department, or the officer authorized to sign on his / her
behalf or his/ her Provincial Head.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………….... who is an
officer working in my office and is known to me personally placed
his/her signature before me on ………………………
 –––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
 I Certify that,
(i) the foregoing particulars were checked by me and found
correct and,
(ii) the applicant is eligible to sit for this examination.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official frank should be placed).
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
06–383/2

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.06.2014
1202
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  GRADE  III  OF  THE  SRI   LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE - 2013(2014)
SECTION 6(c) of the notification on "Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service
- 2013(2014)" published in the Gazette of No. 1,866 dated 6th June 2014, of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, is revised in the
following manner as per the decision of the cabinet Ministers.
6. Qualifications for Recruitment :–
(c) Age.– Should not be less than Twenty two (22) years of age and should not be more than Twenty nine (29) years of age
on the application closing date.
The closing date of the application shall not be extended due to this amendment. The other provisions laid down in the Gazette
notification shall remain effective.
P. B. ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Indpendence Square,
Colombo 07,
06th of June, 2014.
06–651