

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1041
1041
wxl 1"611 - 2009 cQ,s 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'07'17
No. 1,611 – FRIDAY , JULY 17, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1044
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1047
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th July, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th July,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1042
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1043
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1044
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Sri Lanka Survey Department
RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  APPRENTICE
SURVEYORS  IN  THE  SRI  LANKA  SURVEY
DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka
possessing the following qualifications to be appointed to the post
of Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey Department.
Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen given below
should be sent to “The Surveyor General, Surveyor General’s Office,
No. 150, Kirula Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05” under registered
cover to reach him on or before 01.08.2009. The wording
“Application for the Post of Apprentice Surveyors” should be
clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing
the application. Applications sent through other means except by
post will be rejected.
02. Every candidate should have fulfilled the following eligibility
requirements and must furnish proof that he/she,
(a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) is of excellent moral character and physically sound ;
(c) is not less than 22 years and not more than 33 years on the
closing date of application ;
(d) should have complied with the educational qualifications.
03. Conditions of Service :
(i) Salary.– The consolidated monthly salary scale assigned
to this post is as follows :
P. A. Circular No. 06/2006(iv) MN -5A
Rs. 16,720- 10 x 320 - 11 x 365 - 15 x 450 - Rs. 30,685.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(iii) Selected candidates will be appointed to the post of
Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey
Department subject to the general conditions governing
the appointments of the Public Service and to the
conditions specified in the Surveyors’ Service Minute
published in the Extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  No. 1434/5 dated
27.02.2006 and to the amendments which have been
made or may be made from time to time to said Minute.
04. Conditions of Appointment :
(i) Those who are appointed should undergo training in
departmental matters for a period of 06 months.
(ii) They are bound to furnish security to the amount of
Rs. 25,000 for the Government stores issued to them.
(iii) After completion of training period, they are subject to
serve the Survey Department as a surveyor in the Sri
Lanka Surveyors’ Service for a period of 06 years and
for that purpose they are required to enter into an
agreement and a security bond with a surety having assets
worth not less than a sum of Rs. 150,000.
05. Educational Qualifications .– Should have a degree in
Surveying Science obtained from a recognized University or
Institution recognized by the University Grants Commission.
06. Method of Selection.– Selection will be made on the results
of an Interview. In this regard, special consideration will be given to
the Surveying Science Graduates of the same batch who have passed
out from a University. The order of merit obtained at the Degree
Examination will also be taken into consideration.
07. Applications not having the necessary requirements and
which are received after the closing date will be rejected.
08. If any candidate is found to be disqualified he/she is liable
for the cancellation of his/her candidature before the interview or at
the time of interview or after the interview or at any time thereafter.
09. Candidates already employed in the Public Service should
forward their applications through the Head of their respective
Departments. The Survey Department is in no way responsible for
any loss of applications in the post.
By order of the Cabinet of Ministers,
J
AY ALATH  R. V . DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Land and Land Development.
No. 80/5, Govijana Mandiraya,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla.
S
RI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF APPRENTICE
SURVEYORS IN THE SRI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals eg.- Silva, A.B.)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :––––––––.
1.5 Date of issue :––––––––.
02. Address :
2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––.
(In English block capitals)

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1045
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Postal Address :––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
03. Ethnicity :
Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
3.1 Citizenship :––––––––.
(Whether by descent or by registration, if by registration,
give Registration No.)
04. Sex :
Female - 1, Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
05. Civil Status :––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
6.1 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Dates :––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications :
(i) University/Institution :––––––––.
(ii) Degree and Year of Graduation :––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number and Date :––––––––.
(iv) External/Internal :––––––––.
(v) Index No. :––––––––.
(vi) Class (Upper/Lower) :––––––––.
(vii) Medium of Language in which you appeared for the
exam : ––––––––.
08. Details of the courses in Computer Science followed :––––––.
09. Proficiency in other languages in addition to the mother
tongue :––––––––.
10. Sports :––––––––.
11. Other Qualifications :––––––––.
12. If over convicted of any criminal offence in a Court of Law, give
full particulars of it :––––––––.
13. If you are already in Government service, state whether you
had been subjected to interdiction from service up to the date
of receiving applications :––––––––.
I do certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct.
I am aware that if any particulars given by me herein are found
to be false or incorrect, I am liable for disqualification if detected
before selection and for dismissal from service if detected after
the appointment
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
(This is applicable only to the candidates already employed in
the Public Service.)
....................
....................
....................
Surveyor General,
The particulars furnished by Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................. who
serves in this Institution are correct. He/She has not been subjected
to any disciplinary action and he/she can be/cannot be released
from the service if he/she is selected for the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Frank)
Date :––––––––.
07–523
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
REGISTRA TION  OF  EXTERNAL  RESOURCE  PERSONS  AS
LECTURERS/INSTRUCTORS  –  2009/2010  ACADEMIC  YEAR
APPLICA TIONS are invited for the registration of External Resource Persons as Lecturers/Instructors in the Technical Colleges/Colleges
of Technology under this Department by the Principals of Technical Colleges/Colleges of Technology, indicated in the schedule given at
the end of this notice.
02. Specimen Application and list of subjects for which External Resource Persons are required, can be obtain from the Principal
of the Technical College/College of Technology where you wish to serve by sending him a self addressed stamped envelope (9"x4"). The
top left-hand corner of the envelope should be marked “External Resource Persons”. These particulars may also be obtained from the
Principals in person.
03. The last date for obtaining these particulars will be 31st July, 2009.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1046
04. General Information for Applicant :
(i) Applicants should note to give all particulars regarding their qualifications and experience in the Educational, Professional
and Technical fields.
(ii) Fees.– Fees payable to External Resource Persons vary from Rs. 200 to Rs. 400 per hour in accordance with their
experience, qualifications and level of the course they are selected to serve.
(iii) Forwarding of Applications.– Applications from officers in the Public Service should be forwarded through the Heads
of their Departments/Institutes with an endorsement by the respective Heads to the effect that their selection of the
applicant as an External Resource Persons will not affects their normal duties.
(iv) Selections.– Selections for these registrations will be made subsequent to interviews conducted by the Principals of the
respective Colleges. Preference will be given to applicants with experience in teaching. Please note that the registration
can be terminated according to requirements of the College, by the Principal, without giving any reasons and at any
time during the Academic Year.
(v) Registered External Resource Persons should conduct internal examinations in their respective subjects without
additional remuneration.
05. These registration are valid only for the Academic Year 2009/2010 and may be terminated even earlier in accordance with the
requirements.
06. If an applicant wishes to apply for more than one subject, separate applications should be sent for each such subject. All
applications should be sent to Principal of the appropriate Technical College/College of Technology under registered cover to reach him
before the closing date specified by him.
Dr. H. L. O
BEYESEKERA,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
LIST OF TECHNICAL COLLEGES/COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY
Serial T echnical College/College of Address District
No. Technology
01 Sri Lanka College of T echnology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03 Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna College of Technology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla College of T echnology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
07 Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
08 Kurunegala College of Technology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
09 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
10 Ampara Hardy College of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
11 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
12 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
13 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
14 Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
15 Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara-Eliya Nuwara-Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1047
21 Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23 Balapitiya Technical College W andaduwa Station Road, Balapitiya Galle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25 Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela T echnical College W ewathenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30 Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technical College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical College Medagama (via Bibile) Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya Vavuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College Akkaraipattu Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gam-Uda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalum
07–484
Serial T echnical College/College of Address District
No. Technology
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
Amendment
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
POSTS IN LECTURER CLASS III (SPECIAL CADRE) OF SRI
LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE
SUBSECTION "e" of Chapter 04, of Page 487 under the above
topic of notice No. 04-119, of the part of examinations, results of
examinations, in advertising of Section II(a) of Part I of the
Government Gazette No. 1,596 on 03.04.2009, for recruitment of
the posts in Lecturer Class III (Special Cadre) of Sri Lanka Technical
Education Service for Colleges of Technology purview under the
Department of Technical Education and Training, is published as.
"A degree of a relevant subject field, obtained from a university,
recognized by the University Grant Commission, with 5 years
teaching experience".
But it should be amended as follows, as per the approval granted
at the cabinet meeting held on 24.06.2009, for the Cabinet
Memorandum No. 09/1018/348/012.
"03 years teaching/field experience after obtained a Degree of a
relevant subject field obtained from a university recognized by the
University Grant Commission."
* The closing date for calling applications for above posts is
mentioned as 30.04.2009, but it will be extended to
31.07.2009 due to the above amendment.
* Applicants, who fulfill the qualifications due to above
amendment, should be sent the application on specimen
form set out in the Gazette Notification No. 1,596 on
03.04.2009 and as per the instructions given in aforesaid
Gazette , Notification, to reach the "Director General.
Department of Technical Education and Training, P. O.
Box 557, Olcotte Mawatha, Colombo 10" before
31.07.2009.
T
HILAK HAPANGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training.
Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training,
No. 354/2, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.
07–481

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1048
Amendment
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
POSTS IN CLASS III (SPECIAL CADRE) OF SRI LANKA
TECHNICAL EDUCA TION SERVICE
SUBSECTION "c" of Chapter 04, of Page 330 under the above
topic of notice No. 03/158, of the part of examinations, results of
examinations, in advertising of Section II(a) of Part I of the
Government Gazette No. 1,592 on 06th March, 2009, is published
as follows : 4(C) ...............
"Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of
age on the closing date of application".
But be amended as follows, as per the approval granted at the
cabinet meeting held on 24.06.2009, for the Cabinet Memorandum
No. 09/1019/348/013.
By the amendment, in addition to subsection 4(c).
"Maximum age limit will not be affected for the Permanent
Public Officers, who are belongs to the Department of Technical
Education and Training."
* The closing date for calling applications for above posts is
mentioned as 17.04.2009, but it will be extended to
31.07.2009 due to the above amendment.
* Applicants, who fulfill the qualifications due to above
amendment, should be sent the application on specimen
form set out in the Gazette Notification No. 1,596 on
06.03.2009 and as per the instructions given in aforesaid
Gazette , Notification, to reach the "Director General.
Department of Technical Education and Training, P. O.
Box 557, Olcotte Mawatha, Colombo 10" before
31.07.2009.
T
HILAK HAPANGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Vocational and Technical Training.
Ministry of Vocational and Technical Training,
No. 354/2, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
02nd July, 2009.
07–521
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS,  SRI  LANKA/
DEPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES
Written Examination for testing the Official Language
Proficiency – 2009
(Level I, II and III Sinhala/Tamil)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the Public and Provincial
Public Servants for the following written examinations scheduled
to be conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka and
the Department of Official Languages, in relation to the Island -
wide Language Training programme implemented by the Department
of Official Languages on the basis of the Official Language proficiency
requirements mentioned in the Public Administration Circulars Nos.
3/2007 and 7/2007.
Examination Language Level
Offiicial Language Sinhala/Tamil Level III
Proficiency (Preliminary
Examination Competence Level)
Offiicial Language Sinhala/Tamil Level II
Proficiency (Secondary
Examination Competence Level)
Offiicial Language Sinhala/Tamil Level I
Proficiency (Special
Examination Competence Level)
The written examination will be held in November, 2009.
02. Syllabuses, schemes of examinations, model question
papers, application forms and information relevant to the
examination may be obtained from the Department web site
www.languagesdept.gov.lk
03. Towns in respective provinces of the Island where
Examination centres would be set up for the written examination
and the number assigned to each town are shown in the annex No.
01. A centre for which a sufficient number of applicants do not
appear will be cancelled and the candidates will be directed to a
centre according to the second/third choice.
04. The oral test pertaining to the written examinations will be
held by the Department of Official Languages.
05. Applications duly perfected in the form to be obtained from
the above web site in accordance with the following instructions
should be forwarded by registered post to the Commissioner General
of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla along with
the recomendation of the respective Head of the Institute on or
before 21st August, 2009. "Written Examination for Official
Language Proficiency 2009" should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope, in which the application is enclosed.
Application should be prepared so as to include the head numbers
01 to 09 in the first page and the remaining numbers in the second
page and the relevant particulars should be filled in by the candidate's

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1049
own handwriting. Applications which are not in conformity with
the specimen application form and the incomplete applications
will be rejected without notice. It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the application with the candidate. The candidate should verify
whether the application conforms to the specimen form obtained
from the web site. Applications prepared otherwise will be rejected.
In perfecting the application, name of the examination should be
written in English in addition to the name in Sinhala/Tamil. No
candidate will be allowed to change the language and the level
applied for on a later date.
06. Each candidate can sit only the written examination of any
one level in any one language at a time.
07. Applications which are contrary to the above instructions
or incomplete or received after the closing date will be rejected.
08. Candidates, who were not permitted to sit the examination
conducted on 27th September, 2008 should forward fresh
applications for this examination.
09. An examination fee is not charged from the candidates who
sit the examination for the first time. A fee of Rs. 250 is charged
from other candidates. Candidates applying for a previously
unsuccessful part of the examination should pay Rs. 150 as
examination fee. Examination fees can be paid in any District/
Divisional Secretariat in the Island and the receipt obtained should
be affixed in the relevant place of the application so that it will not
get detached. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate. Examination fees should be credited to the
Revenue Head No. "20.05.20.00-other".
10. The Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka will publish a
notice in the newspapers immediately after issuing the admission
cards to Candidates. If the admission cards are not received even
after 2 or 3 days from the date of the newspaper notice such
candidates should inform the Department of Examinations together
with photocopies of their application, the receipt for the payment
of fees, receipt of the registration and in case of candidates outside
Colombo, their fax number.
11. Issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be
considered as acceptance of the candidate's fulfillment of required
qualifications to sit the examination.
12. Only a National Identity card issued by the Department for
Registration of Persons or a valid Passport will be accepted by the
supervisor as proof of identify at the examinations conducted by
the Department of Examinations.
13. Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations made for
this examination by the Commissioner General of Examinations. If
such rules and regulations are violated he or she will be liable to a
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
14. The decision of the Commissioner General of Examination
and/or the Commissioner of Official Languages on matters not
mentioned above regarding this examination will be final.
15. For further details please contact 011-2889506/011-2888934
x 220/227.
S. G
UNASENA,
Commissioner of Official Languages.
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATION, SRI LANKA
DEPARTMENT OF OFFICIAL LANGUAGES
WRITTEN EXAMINATION FOR OFFICIAL LANGUAGES PROFICIENCY – 2009
SINHALA/TAMIL LEVEL I, II, III
For office use only
.........................................
* Town expected to sit the examination (in order of preference)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
3.
Language applied
Sinhala – 2, Tamil – 3 (indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
Level applied
Level I - 1
Level II - 2
Level III - 3 (indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
1. Last Name with initials (in English block capitals) ( e. g.
GAMINI H. W.) :–––––––––.
2. Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
3. Official address :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals) (admission card will be sent to
this address)
4. Sex :
Female - 1, Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
5. National Identity Card No. :
6. Telephone No. :
7. Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1050
8. Present ( a) Service :–––––––––.
(b) Post :–––––––––.
9. Your ability of the language applied for ..........
(a) Name of the relevant certificate (if available only) :–––.
(b) Institute by which certificate was awarded :–––––––––.
(c) Year of Issue :–––––––––.
10. ( a) Have you sat the written examination for Official
Language Proficiency held on 15.03.2008 and
27.09.2008 ? :–––––––.
(If you have to complete a part of the examination, part
you have failed should be mentioned here)
(b) Part you have failed :–––––––––.
Index No. and date of the above examination.
Index No. :–––––––––. Exam Date :–––––––––.
I declare that the above particulars are true and I have not applied
for any other level of this examination and any other language of
this examination and that I accept the decision of the Commissioner
of Official Languages as the final in respect of any matter relating to
this examination. I also declare that I'm subject to the rules and
regulations of this examination imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
Name :–––––––––.
Signature :–––––––––.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE INSTITUTION
I hereby certify that the above candidate is attached to my
office and the particulars referred to in Paras. and Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 8,
9 and 10 in the application are correct and he/she placed his/her
signature in my presence on ...........
Signature :–––––––––. Date :–––––––––.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Official Frank :–––––––––.
ANNEXURE 1
Towns where Examination centres are to be setup
Province T owns T own No.
Colombo 1
Western Gampaha 2
Kalutara 3
North-Western Kurunegala 4
Chilaw 5
Galle 6
Southern Matara 7
Tangalle 8
Province T owns T own No.
Ratnapura 9
Sabaragamuwa Kegalle 10
Uva Badulla 11
Monaragala 12
Kandy 13
Central Matale 14
Nuwara Eliya 15
North Central Anuradhapura 16
Polonnaruwa 17
Jaffna 18
Vavuniya 19
Northern Mullaitivu 20
Kilinochchi 21
Mannar 22
Trincomalee 23
Eastern Batticaloa 24
Ampara 25
07–485
DEPARTMENT OF  RAILWAY
Recruitment to the Post of Technologist Class II
Segment "B" of the basic Technological Service
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who are
not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age as at 31st
July, 2009 to fill the vacancies in the post of Technologist Class II
segment "B" of the Basic Technological service of the Sri Lanka
Department of Railways. (The upper age limit is not applicable to
those who are already in Public Service and Provincial Public
Service). The closing date of application is 31st July, 2009. The
application should be sent under registered cover to reach the
General Manager of Railways. Department of Railways, Colombo
10 before the closing date. Application addressed personally to any
officer of this department or delivered by hand will not be
entertained. Incomplete and late application will be rejected without
prior notice. Applicat who are in Public Service or Provincial Public
Service should forward their applications through the heads of their
respective departments or Institutes before the stipulated date.
01. Post for which applications are called for and vacancies.
Technologist, Class II segment "B" of the Basic Technological
service of the Sri Lanka Department of Railway.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1051
02. Salary Scale .– As per MN 1-2006-A of Public Circular
No. 6/2006, entitled to in monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 13,120
- 18 x 145 - Rs. 15,730.
03. Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed the G . C.
E. (O.L.) examination in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings
with language and mathematics ; and
Should posses the full time 2 1/2 year training course certificate
issued by a government approved Technical college or National
Apprentice Board or Technical Training Authority. There is a
priority of selecting candidates who posess higher qualifications
are required.
N.B.– (Should have completed all qualifications before the closing
date of applications.)
04. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made in order
of merit gained at an general competitive examination held in
accordance with Public Administrative Circular No. 15/90 and on
the provitions of the minutes on Sri Lanka Railways Technological
Service published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1072/15 of
26.03.1999 in terms of the provitions of the establishment code
and Public Administrative Circular No. 15/90 and other connected
circulars that may be issued.
05. Scheme of Recruitment Test :
(i) The examination will be conducted by the general manager
of Railways.
(ii) Examination method :
(a) The test will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and
English.
(b) Candidates who appear for the examination should
answer all the question papers in one language medium.
(iii) Subjects of the examination :
(a) Examination will consist of two question papers.
1. Arithmatic inclusive of addings - two parts.
First part - time 30 minutes total marks 30.
Second part time 1 1/2 hours - total marks 70.
2. Technological subject - time 1 1/2 hours. total marks
100.
To qualify 60 marks or more should be obtained
for each subject.
(iv) Syllabus.– Knowledge expected is not less than that of
the standed of G . C. E. (O/L) examinaiton.
(a) Arithmatic including addings - Part I.
Figures given in the question paper should be
totaled up side ways and down wards and the final
answer should be handed over at the end of the
stipulated time.
(b) Arithmatic inclusive of addings - Part II.
05 questions should be answered by selecting
questions on time, speed, weight, distance, depths,
area and volume.
Technological question paper
Questions will be raised to anex the basic knowledge
applicable to the post.
Practical Test :
Practical test will be conducted by an examination
board under derections of the General Manager of
Railway.
Ability to perform related duties of the trade of the
basic technological service efficiently and correctly
within the stipulated period of time is examined. To
get qualified 60% or more marks should be obtained.
(v) Scheme of selection.– The required number of candidates
who have scored 60% or more marks in the two subjects
at the written competitive test will be called up for a
practical interview. The selection will be made to fill the
vacancies in order to merit of the aggregated total of marks
of those who have obtained 60% or more marks at the
interview as well no waiting list will be maintained.
06. Instructions for preperation and completion of application.
(i) Application should be made on A4 (half sheet size) paper.
Details given in (1) to (9) of part A should be on page 1
of the application. Details given in (1) to (4) of part B
should be on page 2. Details given in (1) to (2) of part C
should be on page 3. Certificate of head of department/
institute should be on page 4.
(ii) Examination fee is Rs. 250. It can be paid to any post
office convenient to you. Money order drawn in favour
of the General Manager of Railways encashable at the
post office. Maradana should be pasted to the application
in non detachable mannar.
(iii) No photo copies or copies of original letters or any
certificate should be sent along with  the application.
The department will in noway be responsible for any
such originals or photocopies.
(iv) Attestation of signature of external candidates.
The signature of applicant should be attested by a
principal of a government school or justice of peace or a
commissioned officer of the three armed services or a
gazzeted police officer or an officer drawing an initial
monthly salary of Rs. 19,755 or more accordance with
P. A. Circular No. 06/2006.
(v) In case of applicants already in public service, their
signature should be certified by their immediate Head/
inatitute. It is compulsory that they should forward
their application through their relevant Heads of
Departments.
07. Service condition of employment :
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable. Should
contribute towards the widows' orphans/widowers
orphans pension scheme.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1052
(ii) Selected candidates will be subjected to the provisions
of the establishment code, financial regulations,
Departmental orders and regulations that may be
introduced by the government from time to time.
(iii) The selected candidates in addition passing the
prescribed medical examination should pass the special
vision test prescribed in the railway Departmental
Instructions.
(iv) Candidates recruited other than through the media official
language should pass an official language lest withing a
period of 03 years. Failure to pass this test will be result
in deferment of next increment.
(v) Provisions of Sections 10 - 12 of the establishment code
will apply.
P.  P.  W
IJESEKARA,
General Manager of Railway.
Office of the General Manager of Railway,
Colombo 10,
July, 2009.
(Notification calling applications should be read carefully and
understand before completion of application on A4 size paper).
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
For office use only
S
RI LANKA DEPARTMENT OF RAILWAYS
RECRUITMENT TO CLASS II SEGMENT "B" OF THE BASIC
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE
PART (A) : (PAGE OF APPLICATION)
01. Post applied for :–––––––––.
02. Last name with initials :–––––––––.
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––.
03. Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––.
04. Permanent address :
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––.
05. Sex (Mark x in the relevant cage) :
Female Male
06. Residence :
(i) Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––.
(iii) District :–––––––––.
07. Ethnic group (mark x in the relevant cage) :
Sinhala Indian Sri Lanka
Tamil Tamil
Muslim Burger Malay
08. Language medium applied for the exam (mark x in the relevant
cage) :
Sinhala Tamil English
09. Citizenship (mark x in the relevant cage) :
By descent By registration
PART : B (2ND P AGE OF THE APPLICATION)
01. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :–––––––.
(ii) Age as on :
Years :–––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :–––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
03. Educational qualifications :
(i) G. C. E. (O/L) (1st Sitting) :
Index No.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
(i) (vi)
(ii) (vii)
(iii) (viii)
(iv) (ix)
(v) (x)
(ii) G. C. E. (O/L) (2nd Sitting) :
Index No.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
(i) (vi)
(ii) (vii)
(iii) (viii)
(iv) (ix)
(v) (x)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1053
(iii) Technological qualification :
Name of the course :–––––––––.
Institute :–––––––––.
Year obtained :–––––––––.
Passes obtained :–––––––––.
Subject Passed/failed Subject Passed/failed
(i) (vi)
(ii) (vii)
(iii) (viii)
(iv) (ix)
(v) (x)
04. Have you ever been convicted of any offence. If "yes" give
details :
Yes : No. :
PART "C" (PAGE 03 OF APPLICATION)
01. Certificate of applicant :
(a) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me
in this application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge, I am fully aware that my candidature will be
cancelled for non completion of any part herein and/or
incorrect and/or false completion. I personally bear the
consequences there to.
(b) I declare that I am liable to dismissal if the particulars
furnished in (A) above are found untrue after the
appointment. I personally bear all the consequences there
to.
(c) Money order No. .......... obtained after making payment
of Rs. 250 to the ............... post office is annexed hereto.
Please paste the money here.
I agree to abide by the rules and conditions of the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
02. Certification of Signature :
The applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................... is known to me
very well. I certify that he/she signed before me.
–––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer.
Date :–––––––––.
Full name of the officer certifying :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Use the official seal)
03. Certificate of the Head of Department/Institute :
(Only for those who are already in Public Service/Provincial
Public Service)
I certify that the above applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. .............has
worked in the Department/Institute from ..........to ...........
His/her work, conduct and attendance are satisfactory/
unsatisfactory. If he/she is recruited to the post of .............. in
the department of railway he/she could be could not be released
from the department/Institute.
––––––––––,
Head of Department/Institute.
Date :–––––––––.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Please use the official seal)
07–576
COMPETITIVE   EXAMINATION   FOR  RECRUITMENT
OF  SUB  POSTMASTERS  –  2009
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Sub Postmasters of
the Sub Postmasters' Service.
01. Sri Lankans who are not less than 18 years and not more
than 45 years of age on 14.08.2009 can apply for this post.
02. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed the Senior School Certificate
Examination with at least 4 Credits including Language
or Literature and Arithmetic/Pure Mathematics/
Elementary Mathematics/ Commercial Arithmetic ; or
(b) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in 6 subjects in
not more than two sittings with credit passes for four
subjects including Sinhala/Tamil/English Language or

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1054
Sinhala/Tamil/English Literature and mathematics/Pure
Mathematics/Elementary Mathematics/Commercial
Arithmetic/Arithmetic ; or
(c) National Certificate of General Education Examination
in six subjects in not more than two sittings with Grade
A or B passes for four subjects including vernicular and
Mathematics and Grade "C" passes for the remaining
subjects.
Note.– Sub Postmasters who have fulfilled the Educational
qualifications by having passed in Six (06) subjects including
Mathematics and Language and holding an acting appointment as
on 01.01.1996 are entitled to apply for this post.
03. Residential Qualifications :
(a) Letter Delivery offices - In the case of existing Sub Post
Offices with letter delivery facilities applicants should
have been residents within the delivery limits of such
offices, for atleast five years immediately prior to closing
date of application.
(b) Non-Delivery offices - In the case of existing Sub Post
Offices without delivery facilities, applicants should
adduce, proof of having residence for at least five (05)
years in the Gramasevaka Division or adjoining Divisions
served/to be served by such Sub Post Offices immediately
prior to the closing date of applications.
(c) In the case of Municipal Council and Urban Council areas,
the Applicants should be residents in the Municipal/Urban
Council areas concerned for five (05) years immediately
prior to closing date of applications.
(d) The period of permanent residence in respect of places
such as new Agricultural Colonies, new Settlements, new
Housing Schemes and new Industrial Colonies wil be
determined by the Postmaster General.
04. Salary and Allowances.– The Salary Scale applicable to the
Sub Postmasters' Service is as follows. MN 1-2006-10A from the
10th step.
Rs. 14,425 - 145 x 1 - 170 x 19 - Rs. 17,800 (Efficiency Bar
Examination before reaching the Salary Step of Rs. 15,420).
In addition to the Salary, other allowances payable to
Government Servants and office accommodation allowance will be
paid. Also an unit allowance will be paid according to the transactions
carried out at the office, on a basis that will be decided by the
Postmaster General. The permanent Sub Postmasters are also
entitled to have leave allowance.
05. Method of recruitment :
(i) Applications will be called for by advertising the vacancies
of Sub Postmasters in the Gazette paper of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and recruitment will be
made on the results of an Open Competitive Examination
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(ii) The candidates should sit the examination in only one
medium. i. e. Sinhala, Tamil or English. Changing of
medium applied to sit the examination will not be
permitted thereafter.
06. Scheme of Examination :
(i) All candidates should sit the written examination
consisting of two question papers namely Language Skills
and Aptitude Test.
(ii) Syllabus :
(a) Language Skills – An objective type question paper
of 1 1/2 hours duration comprising of questions
designed to test the knowledge of using language in
experession of ideas, comprehension, syntax and
simple grammar (100 marks).
Note.– Handwriting of the candidates will be taken in to
consideration.
(b) Aptitude Test – An objective type question paper
of one hour duration comprising of tots, to test the
power of expression and General Intelligence (100
marks)
(iii) A minimum of 40% marks should be obtained, by
candidates in each subject to be considered for making
appointments to the vacancies in Sub Postmasters'
Service.
(iv) Acting Sub Postmasters recruited on or before 01.01.1996
are entitled to get the following percentages of marks
added to the marks they obtained at the Competitive
Examination.
For a period of Acting service from 01 to 02 years 10%
For a period of Acting service from 02 to 03 years 15%
For a period of Acting service exceeding - 03 years 25%
(v) Viva V oce – Candidates who score the highest marks only,
from among the applicants competing for existing Sub
Postmaster vacancy in the Post Office at the Competitive
Examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations will be summoned for the interview.
Only the candidates' certificates and residential
qualifications will be examined at the interview. No marks
will be given at the interview.
(vi) This examination will be held in the under-mentioned
towns. Candidates should select the closest town to their
addresses, where they reside in, as their Centre of
examination. Any Centre of examination, for which there
are no sufficient No. of candidates are applied, will be

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1055
cancelled. It will not permit to change the town applied
to sit the examination.
Town Town No.
Colombo 1
Kandy 2
Galle 3
Hambantota 4
Ratnapura 5
Badulla 6
Kurunegala 7
Anuradhapura 8
Trincomalee 9
Ampara 10
Batticaloa 11
Mannar 12
Jaffna 13
07. Terms of engagement :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
shall be made to the Widows/Widowers' and Orphans
Pension Fund. The appointment will be on probationary
period of three years from the date of appointment. The
optional age of retirement is 55 years and the compulsory
age of retirement is 60 years. In terms of the Provisions
in the Establishments Code, the period of service beyond
57 years may be extended annually up to 60 years.
(ii) Transfers in the Sub Postmasters' Service are restricted
only to the relevant District.
(iii) Candidates selected will be required to furnish security
in a sum of Rs. 7,500 of which half should be deposited
before accepting office and the balance will be recovered
by monthly instalments from the Sub Postmasters' Salary.
(iv) The selected candidates should provide adequate
accommodation to house the Sub Post Office at a central
place decided by the Postmaster General or his
representative. The selected Sub Postmasters shall prepare
to shift the location of the Sub Post Office within three
months on notice being given by the Postmaster General
or his duly Authorized officer.
(v) It will be the responsibility of the Sub Postmaster to
provide a Substitute at his/her own expenses when availing
leave.
(vi) The selected candidate should be physically fit and he/
she will be required to submit for a Government Medical
Examination.
(vii) The selected candidates are required to conform to the
Provisions of Chapter IV of the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and any other
laws, rules and regulations that may be made from time to
time for giving effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
08. Mode of Application :
(i) Applications shall be prepared on papers of A4 size as
per the specimen appended to the end of this notice
No. 01 to 05 shall be on the 1st page while No. 06 to 09
shall be on page 02. Balance shall be on 3rd and 4th
pages. These applications shall be filled in candidates
own handwriting. The perfected applications should be
forwarded to the relevant Divisional Superintendent of
Post Offices to reach him on or before 14.08.2009.
Applications not made as per the said specimen
applications, not duly filled and the applications received
after the closing date will be rejected without only notice.
It will be useful for keeping photocopies of the relevant
applications.
(ii) The signatures of candidates who are already in
Government Service should be attested by the Head of
Department or by a duly authorized officer. Signature of
other candidates should be attested by a Justice of Peace,
A Commissioner of Oaths. An Attorney-at-Law, Notary
Public, Principal of a Government School, Commissioned
Officer of Armed Forces, a Gazetted Officer in the Police
Service, A Chief Incumbent Thero of a Buddhist temple,
a Chief Incumbent of any other Religious Dignitary or
other religious leader holding a Responsible position.
(iii) Write the name of the examination mentioned in the
heading of the application in English in addition to Sinhala/
Tamil Languages, where applicable.
09. Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 200. This should
be paid at the nearest Post Office or Sub Post Office and the
Examination receipt obtained should be firmly affixed on the relevant
cage of application. The examination fee or a part thereof paid for
examination will not be refunded under any circumstance. It will be
useful to retain photocopies of the application and the examination
receipt.
10. (i) Every candidate should appear for the examination in
the medium he has applied for. He/She will not be allowed
to change the medium of the examination under any
circumstance.
(ii) The can didates should sit the examination at the
examination hall assigend to them. All candidates are
found by the General rules and regulations applicable
to Government Examinations.
(iii) A paper advertisement will be published by the
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka to the effect
that admissions have been sent to the Applicants.
Candidates who have not received admissions for two
or three days shall inform the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka as per the paper advertisement.
It will be more fruitful when you inform so, if you have
photocopies of your applications and Examinations
receipt, original receipt of registration, letter of your
request stating a fax No. to send admission in case of
outstations of Colombo, with you.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1056
11. Only the identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or a valid Passport will be accepted at the
Examination Hall to prove the identity of the candidate.
12. Issuing of an admission card to a candidate does not constitute
the fulfilling of all qualifications of the examination.
13. Candidates are subject to rules and regulations of the
examination promulgated by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. A candidate who violates any of such rules is liable
for punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
14. Any candidate attempt to influence an officer of the
Department directly or indirectly will be disqualified.
15. All the candidates should annex, to their applications, a
sketch of the location of the proposed building in which he/she
wishes to accommodate the Sub Post Office, if selected.
16. All applications will be acknowledged. If an applicant does
not receive acknowledgement within 7 days from the closing date
of applications, she/he should bring it to the notice of the respective
Divisional Superintendent of Post Offices immediately. Applications
shall be addressed to the Divisional Supdt. of Post Offices, D. S.
Office, ............. and not to him personally.
17. If it is found that a candidate has furnished false information
before he/she is selected he/she is liable to be disqualified and if it is
found after selection he/she is liable to be discontinued from service.
18. Applications, not conforming to the requirement of the notice
and the applications, will be rejected.
M. K. B. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Postmaster General.
Postal Head Quarters,
No. 310, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Colombo 01000,
29th of June, 2009.
(for office use only)
Competitive Examination for recruitment of
Sub Postmasters – 2009
Item Nos. 1-5 shall be on the first page of application.
Medium in which you wish to sit the examination :
Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
English – 4
(Indicate the relevant Number in cage.)
01. Examination Centre where you wish to sit the Examination :
–––––––––.
Examination Centre No. :–––––––––.
(as per 06(vi) of the Gazette Notification)
02. (i) Name with initials (in block letters) :–––––––––.
(Ex. SILV A, A. B.)
(ii) Name donated by initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––.
03. (i) Permanent address :–––––––––.
(Admission cards will be sent to this address)
(ii) Official address if you are employing in a Department :
–––––––––.
04. (i) Name of the Sub Post Office where the vacancy exists :
–––––––––.
(ii) No. of the Sub Post Office :–––––––––.
(as mentioned in the Notice)
05. (i) Have you been a permanent resident continuously for
five years or more in the area where the vacancy for
S. P. M. exists ?
(ii) Name and Number of Grama Niladhari Division in which
you reside ............... Number  :
(iii) Since when have you been a resident there ? :–––––––.
(iv) Name of delivery office serving your place of residence :
–––––––––.
(v) In the case of an office situated or to be opened in an
agricultural colony, when have you been a resident there ?
:–––––––––.
(vi) If you are not the owner of the respective colonial land,
your relationship with the colonist :–––––––––.
(vii) National Identity Card No. :
06. (i) Sex :
(Indicate the relevant Number in the cage)
Female - 1, Male - 0
(ii) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(iii) Age as on the last date of closing the applications (as on
14.08.2009) :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration ? :
–––––––––.
08. (i) Are you entitled to obtain concessionary marks under
Para 6-(iv) of the notice ? :–––––––––.
(ii) If so, state particulars :–––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1057
09. (i) Educational Qualifications :
Name of Examination passed :–––––––––.
Year and month :–––––––––.
Index No. :–––––––––.
Centre of Examination  :–––––––––.
No. :–––––––––.
Subjects Passed Pass Obtained
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Name of Examination passed :–––––––––.
Year and month :–––––––––.
Index No. :–––––––––.
Centre of Examination  :–––––––––.
No. :–––––––––.
Subjects Passed Pass Obtained
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(ii) Other Educational Qualifications :–––––––––.
10. Can you provide a suitable building to house Sub Post Office
within 200 yards from the present location or the proposed
location of the Sub Post Office ? :–––––––––.
A rough sketch should be annexed giving a brief description of
its location.
11. Can you engage a person whom you wish to register as the
Substitute to act for you during your absence ? (The person
appointed as the Substitute should possess the qualifications
that a Sub Postmaster is required to possess) :–––––––––.
12. Have you ever been punished in a Court of law for any offence
? If so, State Case number and the Punishment imposed :–––.
13. (i) Were you employed in the Postal Department or other
Government Institution earlier ? :–––––––––.
(ii) Give particulars of such employment and reasons for
leaving it or dismissed :–––––––––.
14. Can you provide security in a sum of Rs. 3,750 ? :––––––––.
15. Names and addresses of two referees nominated by the
candidate to determine Candidate's character and efficiency ?
(i) –––––––––.
(ii) –––––––––.
16. Post office at which the examination fees were paid :–––––––.
Examination receipt No. :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
The examination receipt should be firmly affixed here.
(It will be useful to retain a photo copy of the receipt.)
17. Statement of the Applicant :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate.  I am also fully aware that if
any information contained herein are found false or incorrect
before selection, I am liable to be disqualified and to instant
dismissal from service without compensation if such
discrepancy is detected after the appointment.
I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions of this examination
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations. I do
not change any information mentioned herein.
––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
18. Attestation of the signature of Applicant :
I hereby certify that the above named applicant Mr./Mrs./
Miss. ................... is personally known to me and that he/she
has placed his/her signature in my presence this ............... day
of ............... and has paid the relevant examination fee and
affixed such receipt.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attesting officer.
Date :–––––––––.
Full name of the Attesting officer :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Confirm by placing official frank.)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1058
19. Certificate of the Head of Department (If applicable) :
I hereby certify that this applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. .............
is working at this office since .................... and his/her work
and conduct have always been satisfactory, that the above
particulars have been checked by me personally with the records
available at this office and found correct and that he/she has
placed the signature in my presence.
––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Dept. or
the Officer authorized by him.
Date :–––––––––.
Place :–––––––––.
Full name of the Certifying Officer :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Confirm by placing official frank.)
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
GAMPAHA
Sub Post Office
1. Ullalapola
2. Nedungamuwa
3. Palugama
4. Bambookuliya
5. Udakanampella
6. Mahahunupitiya
7. Embaraluwa South
8. Ihala Uggalboda
9. Ethgala
10. Duwa
11. Eththukala
12. Negombo Bus stand
13. Sinharamulla
14. Hendi Mahara
15. Mabole
16. Bomunuwa
17. Pahalagama
18. Rukgahawila
19. Kahatowila
20. Walgammulla
21. Vigoda
22. Bolagala
23. Karaneyamulla
24. Ambagaspitiya
25. Moragoda
26. Samanabedda
27. Nikahetikande
28. Kehelella
29. Muruthana
30. Ihala Madampella
31. Adiambalama
32. Kudahakapola
33. Gonahena
34. Waduwegama
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
KALUTARA
Sub Post Office
1. Gorakana
2. Ambepitiya
3. Koshena pambe
4. Millaniya
5. Divalakada
6. Mahamulatiyana
7. Meewanapalana
8. Paragoda
9. Thebuwana
10. Raigambellanthuduwa
11. Gulawita
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
COLOMBO
Sub Post Office
1. Wage-Sunday Market
2. Wanathamulla
3. Salamulla
4. Rathmalana North
5. Modara South
6. Makandana
7. Panchikawatta
8. Kalatuwawa
9. Bellanwila
10. Artigala
11. Hyde Park Corner
12. Thalangama South
13. Marambekanda
14. Dematagoda
15. Saranankara Road
16. Nugadanda
17. Kaluandura
18. Napawala
19. Willorawatta
20. Armour Street
21. Malapalla
22. Narahenpita
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
BADULLA
Sub Post Office
1. Udukumbalwela
2. Bindunuwewa
3. Bambarapana
4. Yalagamuwa
5. Bowela
6. Nedungamuwa
7. Hegoda

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1059
8. Dikkapitiya
9. Amunumulla
10. Uva Mahakumbura
11. Demodara Walasbedda
12. Gawarawela
13. Jagulla
14. Uva Uduwara
15. Soragune
16. Ethkandawaka
17. Miriyabedda
18. Soranatota
19. Arawakumbura
20. Dulgolla
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
RATNAPURA
Sub Post Office
1. Imbulpe
2. Pambagolla
3. Godagampala
4. Panamura
5. Olugantota
6. Panapola
7. Batatota
8. Weddagala
9. Hatangala
10. Medabedda
11. Udakarawita
12. Niralgama
13. Dodampe
14. Pallekada
15. Malangama
16. Sri Palabaddala
17. Kudawa
18. Meepagama
19. Akarella
20. Pathakada
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
KEGALLE
Sub Post Office
1. Batuwita
2. Deewela Udagama
3. Karandupana Junction
4. Udambasiyambalapitiya
5. Hewadiwela
6. Thoranagahapitiya
7. Atugodapusselladeniya
8. Gonagamuwa
9. Aluth nuwara
10. Mabopitiya
11. Ambamalla
Sub Post Office
12. Meegasthenna
13. Thuntota
14. Wegalla
15. Ranwala Junction
16. Mahabage
17. Borukgamuwa
18. Theligama
19. Kehelpannala
20. Galpatha (Sabara)
21. Uduwa (Sabara)
22. Molagoda
23. Beminiwaththa
24. Asmadala
25. Higuranatalawa
26. Bossella
27. Polambegoda
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
KANDY NORTH
Sub Post Office
1. Gannewa Udagama
2. Kapuliyadda
3. Pattiyawatta
4. Rambukpothanga
5. Makkanigama
6. Mahakumbura
7. Gallellagama
8. Wilanagama
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
KANDY SOUTH
Sub Post Office
1. Mailapitiya
2. Haloya
3. Muruthagahamula
4. Nawaelpitiya
5. Kolongoda
6. Gonawalapathana
7. Rambukpitiya
8. Hunnasgiriya
9. Giddawawaradiwela
10. Hadawalapitiya
11. Dunukeulla
12. Ambuluwawa
13. Malgammana
14. Kiribathkumbura
15. Thalawaththa
16. Polgahaanga
17. Mahadambagoda
18. Haliyadda
19. Edanduwawa
20. Lankathilaka
Sub Post Office

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1060
21. Dumbarasiri
22. Dekinda
23. Wijayasrigama
24. Handaganawa
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
MA TALE
Sub Post Office
1. Deevilla
2. Muwandeniya
3. Nikula
4. Haduwa
5. Inamaluwa
6. Dhambulugama
7. Thalakiriyagama
8. Nugagolla
9. Perakanatte
10. Opalgala
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
NUWARAELIYA
Sub Post Office
1. Brookside
2. Suriyagahapathana
3. Ruwaneliya
4. Kalukele
5. Mahakudugala
6. Gaminipura
7. Liyanwela
8. Kosgahapathana
9. Dunuthuduoya
10. Kalaganwatte
11. Rawanagoda
12. Pallewatte
13. Kirimetiya
14. Ambagamuwa Udabulathgama
15. Manakola
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
ANURADHAPURA
Sub Post Office
1. Galkadawala
2. Kadapanaha
3. Mannar Junction
4. Maningamuwa
5. Pandukabayapura
6. Parasangaswewa
7. Pairimaduwa
8. Saliyapura
Sub Post Office Sub Post Office
9. Wahamalgollewa
10. Gnanikulama
11. Selveheragama
12. Megodawewa
13. Unagollewa
14. Bandiwewa
15. Hoorigaswewa
16. Kalankuttiya
17. Palugaswewa
18. Palagala
19. Andiyagala
20. Kattamurichchana
21. Rambakulama
22. Rathmalgahawewa
23. Thambalagollewa
24. Ambagahawewa
25. Padavi Sripura
26. Mahasenpura
27. Kalaoya
28. Mahabellankadawela
29. Karagahawewa
30. Saliyagama
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
POLONNARUWA
Sub Post Office
1. Thamankaduwa
2. Parakrama Samudra
3. Kawdulla
4. Singhagama
5. Buddhayaya
6. Aselapura
7. Mahawelisinghapura
8. Mahaambagaswewa
9. Minihirigama
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
KURUNEGALA  SOUTH
Sub Post Office
1. Velava Junction
2. Padeniya
3. Bandara Koswatta
4. Kanaththewewa
5. Mirihanegama
6. Malagane
7. Yatigaloluwa
8. Wellewa-Morahela
9. Paththenigoda
10. Deekirikewa
11. Puswelithenna
12. Thalahengoda
13. Ihalagomugomuwa

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1061
Sub Post Office
14. Wewagama
15. Gorakadeniya
16. Narangoda
17. Bowatta Junction
18. Rambadagalla
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
KURUNEGALA  NORTH
Sub Post Office
1. Bogamuwa
2. Konpola
3. Theliyagonna
4. Hospital Junction
5. Yaggahapitiya
6. Yanthampalawa
7. Kimbulwanaoya
8. Akkarapanaha
9. Panliyadde
10. Hiriyala Lenawa
11. Kotavehera
12. Hulugalla
13. Thambagalla
14. Makulwewa
15. Kirindigalla
16. Siyambalangamuwa
17. Palugolla
18. Hunugallewa
19. Mahagalkadawela
20. Rideebendiella
21. Ganthiriyawa
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
PUTTALAM
Sub Post Office
1. Wilpotha
2. Mugunuwatawana
3. Arachchikattuwa
4. Karandipuwal
5. Ilippadeniya
6. Etiyawala
7. Katukenda -West
8. Inginimitiya
9. Kuruketiyawa
10. Narawilagama
11. Yakdessawa
12. Mukkuthoduwawa
13. Mudalakkuliya
14. Kandakuliya
15. Kurinjanpitiya
16. Wathugahamulla
17. Ihala Katuneriya
18. Thoduwawa
19. Ulhitiyawa
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
GALLE
Sub Post Office
1. Beligaha Junction
2. Karapitiya
3. Galle Fort
4. Eliet Road
5. Hirimburagama
6. Kapuhenpola
7. Magedara
8. Karagoda
9. Denuwala
10. Ella-Thanabaddegama
11. Ingalathalawa
12. Hipankanda
13. Halpathota
14. Hammeliya
15. Nugetota
16. Kurunduwattha Vidanagoda
17. Weliwaththa Junction
18. Totagamuwa
19. Angulugalla
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
MATARA
Sub Post Office
1. Kadduwa
2. Handugala
3. Udugalbada
4. Thotamuna
5. Karaputugala
6. Narandeniya
7. Lankagama
8. Naotunna
9. Weliketiya
10. Wilpita
11. Maliyadda
12. Welletota
13. Walakanda
14. Akurugoda
15. Dellawa
16. Walliwala
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS IN THE
DIVISION OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
HAMBANTOTA
Sub Post Office
1. Morayaya
2. Muruthawela

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1062
3. Kiramanawaneliya
4. Yatigala
5. Kandurupokuna
6. Hatharakuttuhena
7. Horewelagoda
8. Siyambalakote
9. Kawantissapura
10. Padavkema
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS DIVISION OF
DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
TRINCOMALEE
Sub Post Office
1. Bakmeegama
2. Mancholichenai
3. Kumburupiddy
4. Serunuwara
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS DIVISION OF
DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
AKKARAIPA TTU
Sub Post Office
1. South Eastern University
2. Naipattimunai
3. Kalmunai Bazaar
4. Kadakarapalli
5. Panankadu
6. Meeranagar
7. Panama
8. Majidpuram
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS DIVISION
OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
BATTICALOA
Sub Post Office
1. Oththachchimadam
2. Thampalawattai
3. Nawagirinagar
4. Mathurankarnikulam
5. Wadamunai
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS DIVISION OF
DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
MONERAGALA
Sub Post Office
1. Habaraluwewa
2. Iwela
Sub Post Office
3. Niyandagala
4. Randeniya
5. Kodayana
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS DIVISION
OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
JAFFNA
Sub Post Office
1. Eluvaitivu
2. Puliyankoodal
3. Karampan East
4. Piranpattu
5. Mirusuvil
6. Eachchamottai
7. Thirunelvely
8. Jaffna Courts
9. Kondavil
10. Navaly
11. Velanaithurai
12. Kovalam
13. Valanthalai
14. Kokuvil West
15. Mandaitivu
16. Polikandy
17. Kaitadi North
18. Viyaparimoolai
19. Pannakam
20. Iruppiddy
21. Nagendiramadam
22. Nallur
23. Urelu
24. Vathiry
25. Ilavalai
26. Karainagar Jetty
27. Mandan
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS DIVISION
OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
VAVUNIIYA
Sub Post Office
1. Iratperiyakulam
2. Kanagarayankulam
3. Nelukkulam
4. Nainamadu
5. Chemamadukulam
6. Palamoddai
7. Maruthodai
8. Kannatty
9. Kavutharimunai
10. Sivapuram
Sub Post Office

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'07'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2009
1063
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS DIVISION
OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
MULLAITIVU
Sub Post Office
1. Puththuvedduvan
2. Thunukkai
3. Muththaiyankaddukkulam
4. Vavunikkulam
5. Udayarkaddu
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS DIVISION OF
DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO, KILINOCHCHI
Sub Post Office
1. Karadipokku
2. Vaddakkachchi
3. Iyarkachchi
4. Veravil
5. Kalmadunagar
6. Kunchuparanthan
7. Uruthira puram
8. Punakary Nallur
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS DIVISION OF
DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO, MANNAR
Sub Post Office
1. Parappukadanthan
2. Periya Pullachchi Potikenai
3. Palampiddy
VACANCY LIST OF SUB POSTMASTERS DIVISION
OF DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF POO,
AMPARA
Sub Post Office
1. Gonagolla
2. Damana
3. Mahanagapura
4. Rajagalatenna
5. Madawelalanda
6. Dighawapi
7. Digamadulla
8. Moragahapalla
07–556
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.