

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2363
2363
wxl 1"841 - 2013 foieïn¾ 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'12'13
No. 1,841 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 13, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2366
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2371
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd January, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th
December, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2364
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2365
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2366
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 13th  January, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
19th November, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Alawwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Dambadeni Hathpattuwa General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Kurunegala.
Dambadeni Udukaha South Division
12–382
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2367
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 13th  January, 2014.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
19th November, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Galle Nagoda Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Gangabada Pattu Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Malamura Galle.
Division
12–381
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 13th  January, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
25th November, 2013.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2368
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Galle Niyagama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Benthara Walallawita Koralaya General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Galle.
Naranowita Division
12–467
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATALE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 13th  January, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
27th November, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Matale Rattota Post of Registrar of births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Pallesiya Division and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
of Marriage (Kandiyan/General) in Matale.
Matale East
12–564

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2369
PUBLIC  SERVICE   COMMISSION
Ministry of State Resources and Enterprise Development
OPEN RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF LEGAL
OFFICER (EXECUTIVE CATEGORY - CLASS III)
APPLICATIONS are called from citizens of Sri Lanka with the
following qualifications for the post of Legal Officer in the Ministry
of State Resources and Enterprise Development.
01. Method of recruitment .– Out of all the candidates with the
minimum required qualifications to apply for the post, only the
candidates, who score the highest marks at a structured interview
conducted by a panel of interview appointed by the Public Service
Commission, will be considered for appointment based on the number
of available vacancies. The structured interview (details are given
under section 6) will be conducted according to the marking scheme
approved by the Public Service Commission of Sri Lanka.
02. Required qualifications :
(i) Educational/Professional qualifications :
Sworn Attorney-at-law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka/
a degree in Law recognized by the University Grants
Commission of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Experience :
Not less than three years (03) practice as Lawyer in Sri
Lanka after sworn in as a Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme
Court of Sri Lanka.
(iii) Physical fitness :
Should be of sound mental and physical health to serve in
any part of the island.
(iv) Other qualifications :
- Proficiency in English and Tamil would be an added
qualification.
- Shoud be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
- Should be an excellent moral character.
- Should have obtained qualifications on or before the closing
date of the applications.
03. Terms of reference of the appointment and service conditions :
(i) This is a permanent and pensionable appointment and all
the employees should contribute to the Widow and
Orphan's Fund.
(ii) The appointment is subject to three years probation period
and the first efficiency bar examination of the Legal Officer
- Grade III should be completed within first three years of
the service.
(iii) All the employees should earn the relevant minimum
required proficiency in the other official language applicable
for the post within five years of the service as per Public
Administration Circular 07/2007.
(iv) This appointment is governed by the Procedural Rules of
the Public Service Commission, Financial Regulations and
Establishment Code of the government.
04. Age limit.– Appilcants should not be less than 21 years of age
and not more than 45 years of age as at closing date of the application.
05. Salary scale.– Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs.
53,555 monthly salary scale is entitled for the post (Salary Code SL-
1-2006 as per Pubilc Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated
25.04.2006.
06. Marking scheme of the structured interview :
Subject Maximum Marks
01 Additional educational qualifications 20
02 Additional Professional Qualifications 15
03 Additional Experience 30
04 Computer Literacy 15
05 English Language Proficiency 15
06 Performance at the interview 05
Total marks 100
07. Identity of the candidates.– Only the candidates who submit
applications in full compliance to this notice will be considered for
structured interview :
Original and the certified copies of all the certificates should be
produced at the interview.
Following identity cards will be accepted at the interview as
means of identity verification of the candidates.
(i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the
Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) Valid passport.
08. Submission of applications :
(i) All the applications should be sent under registered post
to the below mentioned address on or before 03.01.2014.
Applications received after closing date will be rejected.
Secretary,
Ministry of State Resources and Enterprise Development,
No. 561/3,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.
(ii) A specimen application form is shown at the end of this
notice. All the candidates shall submit their applications in
A4 papers in the order of section number 1 to 8 to be
displayed in the front page of the application followed by
the section 09 to 11 to be included in the second page and
section number 12 to 17 to be included in the third page of
the application with all the details filled in their own hand
writings.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2370
(iii) "Application for the Post of Legal Officer" should be
mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the application.
(iv) The signature on the application of all the candidates shall
be attested by a Principal of a Government School, Justice
of Peace, Sworn Translator, Attorney-at-Law, Notary
Public or a Commissioned Officer of the Armed Forces or
a Government Officer holding a permanent post in the
government drawing a monthly consolidated salary of not
less than Rs. 22,935.
(v) All the candidates who are already employed by any of
the Government Institute should submit their applications
through the respective heads of their institutions they are
attached to.
(vi) Any application not in compliance with the specimen
application given here will be rejected. No complain with
regard to lost or late applications will be accepted.
09. Submission of False Information.– If the application submitted
by any candidate is found to have false or incorrect information, his
or her candidacy for the post will be cancelled. If such information
reveals after the recruitment, such candidate will be dismissed from
the service according to the relevant guide lines.
10. The right  of filling or not filling this vacancy is vested with
the Pubilc Service Commission.
By the order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of State Resources and Enterprise Development,
No. 561/3,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Ministry of State Resources and Enterprise Development
POST OF LEGAL OFFICER (EXECUTIVE CATEGORY -
CLASS III)
01. (i) Last Name with initials (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Last Name with initials (in English) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
(iv) Names denoted by initials (in English) :–––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Official :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private :–––––––––––.
03. Telephone :
(i) Official :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private :–––––––––––.
04. (i) Present post and service station :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date of appointment of the current post :–––––––––––.
05. National Identification Card No. :–––––––––––.
06. (i) Gender (Male/Female) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Civil Status (married/unmarried or widowed) :––––––––.
07. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––,  Date :––––
–––––––.
(ii) Age as at closing date :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
08. Whether you are citizen of Sri Lanka by Birth or Registration :
–––––––––––.
09. Educational and professional qualifications :
(a) Please indicate the grade and particulars in respect of
educational and professional or Technical Qualifications :
Examination Year Main Grade Name of
Subjects the Institution
(b) Year of sworn in as an Attorney-at-law in the Supreme
Court of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
(c) Service period as a Legal Officer as at closing date :––––.
10. Experience :
(i) Institute :–––––––––––.
(ii) Service period :–––––––––––.
11. Experience in Computer Skills :–––––––––––.
12. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
13. Proficiency in English :–––––––––––.
14. Other Relevant Information :–––––––––––.
15. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court of Law ?
:–––––––––––.
if so details :–––––––––––.
16. State whether you will be a qualified person of the appointment
to the pubilc service as per section (V) of the procedural rules of
the Public Service Commission of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
I do hereby certify that the above given particulars are true and
correct to the best of my knowledge. I'm fully aware that if any
information I have furnished herewith is found to be false or incorrect
prior to the appointment or after the appointment and found that
I'm not qualified for the post and I'm liable for dismissal from the
service without any compensation.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2371
17. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Ms. ............................ applying for
the post of Legal Officer of the Ministry of Sate Resources and
Enterprise Development is personally known to me and he/she signed
the application in from of me on ................ day of ....... 2013.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Place :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department
I  recommend the application of Mr./Ms. ............................ (name)
holding the post of ...................... in my organization to the post of
Legal Officer of the Ministry of State Resources and Enterprise
Development. I do hereby certify that his/her conduct is satisfactory
and there aren't any disciplinary inquiries or pending inquiries against
him/her. If he/she is selected for the post, he/she can be/can't be
released from the service.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Institution.
(Seal)
Date :–––––––––––.
12–338
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
MINISTRY  OF  TRANSPORT
Department of Motor Traffic
OPEN COMPETITIVE FOR RECRUITMENT OF MOTOR
VEHICLE EXAMINATION TO CLASS II SEGMENT B OF
THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE FOR THE
DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR TRAFFIC
REFERENCE NOTICE PUBLISHED ON 08.11.2013
ANNEXURE 01 : Section 4, paragraph C, the upper age limit will
not be apply to those who are already in the Public Service. (Above
age limit will be applied for this examination only).
S. H. H
ARISCHANDRA,
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.
Department of Motor Traffic,
P. O. Box 533,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
26th November, 2013.
12–413
–––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Open competitive Examination for Recruitment to the posts
in Class III of Assistant Director (Legal) in the National
Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka - 2013
BY order of the Public Service Commission, applications are hereby
invited for the open competitive examination for recruitment to the
posts of Assistant Director (Legal) of the National Intellectual
Property Office of Sri Lanka. The applications in accordance with
the specimen appended at the end of this notification should be sent
under registered post to reach the Commissioner General of
Examinations, (Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch),
Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before
the date mentioned below. The words "Open Competitive
Examination for recruitment to the post of Assistant Director in the
National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka" should be clearly
indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application. It is required to indicate the name of the examination in
English as well, in the applications prepared in both Sinhala and
Tamil Languages.
(a) The closing date of the applications is 13.01.2014.
Note.– Any complaint regarding an application or any related
letter getting lost or delayed in post will not be considered.
Applicants should bear the loss resulted in from getting
delayed to send the applications until its' closing date.
1. Method of Recruitment.– Candidates who have obtained higher
marks from those who have passed the Open Competitive
Examination will be interviewed to verify the qualifications and then
according to the number of existing vacancies they will be recruited
based on the order of merit. Number of candidates to be appointed
and the effective date of appointment will be determined in terms of
the orders of the Public Service Commission.
2. Conditions of the Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and should pay
contributions to the Widows' and Orphans Pension Fund/
Widowers' and Orphans Pension Fund.
(ii) Officers who are appointed to this post are subject to a
probation period of three years (03) and 1st Efficiency
Bar Examination should be passed before lapse of 03
years from the date of appointment.
(iii) Proficiency of the other official language should be
achieved within 05 years from the date of appointment,
in terms of the provisions of Public Administration
Circular No. 07/2007. Officers who have been recruited
from a language other than official languages should obtain
the proficiency of one official language within 03 years.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2372
i. e. during the probation period and the proficiency of
the other official language should be achieved within 06
years from the date of appointment.
(iv) The appointment is subject to Procedural Rules of the
Public Service Commission, Establishment Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
Governmental Financial Regulations and other
Departmental Orders.
(v) Appointments of candidates who fail to assume duties
of the post on the due date and/or refuse or evade
assumingduties of the post or in an area they are
appointed are liable to be cancelled.
3. Salary Scale.– As per the Public Administration Circular No.
06/2006, this post entitles a monthly salary scale of Rs. 22,935 -
10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (SL-1-2006).
4. Educational/Professional Qualifications :
Educational Qualifications .– An Attorney-at-Law of the
Supreme Court/possession of a Law Degree from a
University recognized by the University Grants
Commission.
Professional Qualifications.– Not less than 3 years of active
professional experience after taking oaths as an Attorney-
at-Law of the Supreme Court (additional experience related
to the subject will be considered as special eligibility to the
post).
5. Age limit.– Age should not be less than 21 years and not more
than 35 years of age as the closing date of applications.
6. Physical fitness :
(i) Each candidate should be able to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka.
(ii) Sh ould be physically and mentally fit to discharge official
duties of the post.
(Selected candidates will be subject to undergo a medical
examination)
7. Other Qualifications :
(i) Candidates should be citizens of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Candidates should have excellent moral characters,
(iii) A candidate has to fulfill all the required qualifications in
every aspect as at the date of pubilcation of this Gazette
Notification.
8. Written Examination :
8.1.1 Written Examination :
Question Duration Total Cut off
Paper Marks Marks
English Language 02 hours 100 40
General Intelligence 01 hour 100 40
8.1.2  Syllabus :
Name of the Syllabus
Question Paper
English Language (i) Comprehension :
A paragraph consists of more than 200
words is given to test the ability to
comprehend and answer
(ii) Grammar :
To test the basic knowledge in the areas
of tenses, nouns, verbs, direct and
indirect speech, active and passive
voice, gender and prepositions.
General Intelligence To assess the candidate's capacity for
comprehension and intelligence by
examining the candidate's inferences and
responses to problems presented in
verbal, numerical and contexts.
Examination, reslts including marks obtained for each of the subject
and the aggregate of marks will be personally conveyed to all the
applicants who appeared for the examination.
8.2 Interview :
Candidates with higher marks (equivalent to the number
of vacancies) from the candidates who will obtain more
than 40% marks for each paper will be subject to an
interview conducted by an interview board appointed
by the Public Service Commission to examine the
qualifications and physical fitness mentioned in this
notification. Marks will not be given to the interview.
9. Rules of the Examination :
(i) Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and
English Languages. A candidate will not be allowed to
change the medium of examination which is mentioned in
the application. Each candidate should sit for both
papers.
(ii) The fee for the examination will be Rs. 1,000. This should
be paid by cash to any Divisional/District Secretariat
Office to be credited to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of
the Commissioner General of Examination and the receipt
botained in favour of candidate's name should be affixed
in the relevant cage of the application form. It would be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the
candidate.
(iii) The fee is non-refundable under any circumstance.
(iv) This examination will be held in April 2014. Date of
holding the examination will be notified later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be rejected without any
notice.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2373
Note.– The candidates will not be allowed to enter the
examination hall without the admission card. A
candidate must sit for the examination at the
examination hall assigned to him/her. Every
candidate must get his/her signature attested in
advance and hand over the admission card to the
supervisor on the first time he/she presents himself/
herself for the examination. The issue of an admission
card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has
fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit the
examination.
(vi) The application should be prepared in paper of 22-29
cm (A4) size by using both sides. It should be specifically
noted that the application should be prepared in such a
way that heading 1 to 5 appear on the 1st page and
heading 6 to 11 on the second page and filled by
applicant's own hand writing. Applications that do not
comply with the specimen or that are not properly
completed will be rejected without notice. It is advisable
to keep a photocopy of the application with the
candidate. The candidate shall verify that the perfected
application is in conformity with the specimen given in
the notification as otherwise the application may be
rejected. The application should be in the form of the
specimen appended to this notification.
(vii) Receipt of applciations will not be acknowledged. The
Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to the candidates whose applications
are complete in every aspect. A notice will be published
in the newspapers by the Department of Examinations
as soon as the admission cards are issued to applicants.
If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such an advertisement, steps should have to be
taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the advertisement. It would be more
effective if you send a certified copies of the application
and the cash receipt kept at your possession to the
Department and in case if you are outside Colombo your
letter of request furnishing a Fax No. to which the
admission card should be sent.
(viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves the
right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to
the instructions given by the Public Service Commission.
(ix) Candidates are abided by the rules and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting the examination and issuing of results. They
are liable to subject to a punishment imposed by the
Commissioner for breach of these rules.
10. Identity of Candidate.– A candidate will be required to prove
his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor. For this purpose, any of the following documents will
only be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid Passport,
(c) A valid Driving License.
Note :
(a) Any document or a photocopy of it should not be attached
to the application.
(b) Applications of candidates who fail to submit relevant
documents when requested will not be considered.
Officers of Government/Provincial Government and Government
Corporations should forward their applications through the respective
heads of the Departments/Institutions. It is compulsory that every
candidate must get his/her signature attested before the examination.
The candidates who sit for the examination through their Institutions
must get his/her signature attested by the Head of the Department
also. In case of other candidates, their signatures should be attested
by a Head of a Government School/Retired Head, the Grama Niladari
of the Division, a Justice of Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, an
Attorney-at-Law, a Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer of the
Armed Forces, an Officer holding a permanent post in Public Service
or Provincial Public Service who draw a basic salary of Rs. 240,360
or over per annum or a Chief Incumbent or other chief prelate of a
Buddhist temple or a religious dignitary-in-charge of a place of worship
of any other religion.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information .– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the
particulars furnished by candidate is found incorrect and has been
done so knowingly that it is incorrect or if he has concealed a material
fact intentionally, he/she will be liable to dismiss from the Public
Serivce.
12. Action for any other factor not considered in these regulations,
will be taken in accordance with the decision taken by the Secretary
to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce subject to the instructions
of the Public Service Commission.
13. Public Service Commission reserves the authority to fill or
not fill all the existing vacancies or part of it.
On the order of Public Service Commission,
A
NURA SIRIWARDENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Industry and Commerce.
On 23rd of November, 2013.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2374
For office use only
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS IN CLASS III OF
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (LEGAL) IN THE NATIONAL
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OFFICE OF SRI LANKA - 2013
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
Medium : Medium of Examination
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(It is not allowed to change the "medium of examination"
afterwards as per paragraph 9.1 of this notification)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials (initials at the end) :–––––––––––.
(e.g.– SILV A A. B.) (in English Block Capitals)
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in English Block Capitals)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Address to which admission card should be sent :–––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
3.0 3.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
5.0 Ethnicity :
Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Muslim - 3
Indian Tamil - 4, Other - 5
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
6.0 Marital status :
Married - 1
Single - 2
7.0 Details of the degree :
7.1 University/Institution :–––––––––––.
7.2 Registration Number :–––––––––––.
7.3 Name of the Degree :–––––––––––.
7.4 Effective date of the Degree :–––––––––––.
7.5 General/special :–––––––––––.
7.6 Class :–––––––––––.
7.7 Major Subjects :–––––––––––.
8.0 State if there are any other relevant educational/Professional
Qualifications (Post Graduate Degree/Diploma/Other Language
Proficiencies) :–––––––––––.
9.0 Affix the cash receipt here :
Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
Date of payment :–––––––––––.
Office to which the payment was made :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
10.0 Affirmation of the Applicant :
I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. Further,
I declare that I shall be abided by the rules and regulations with
regard to conducting this examination and the decisions taken with
regard to release of results by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. I agree to be bound by any decision taken to cancel
my candidature before or at the time of or after the examination, if I
am deemed unqualified in terms of the conditions relating to this
examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11.0 Attestation of the signature of the candidate (In accordance
with paragraph 10 of this notification) :
I certify that the applicant .................................... (name in full)
is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my
presence on ....................... (date).
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Official stamp :–––––––––––.
12–612

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2375
MINISTRY  OF  HIGHER  EDUCATION
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
ADMISSION  OF  STUDENTS  TO  THE  ADV ANCED  TECHNOLOGICAL  INSTITUTES
FOR  THE  ACADEMIC  YEAR – 2014
APPLICATIONS are called for the Higher National Diplomas conducted by  Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
(SLIATE) for those who have successfully completed the GCE (A/L) Examination on or before 2012.
How to apply.–  All duly filled applications prepared according to the Specimen application form appeared below should be
directed to the relevant Advanced Technological Institute/Section mentioned in the Section "B", under a registered cover with a  receipt
obtained by crediting of Rs.500  (Five hundred rupees) to the SLIATE Account No. 025-100133397613 at People’s Bank, Park Street
Branch (Colombo) or any other branch of  the People’s Bank  in Sri Lanka. The "course applied" should be clearly stated on the top left
hand corner of the envelope.
Candidates wish to apply for more than one institute should submit separate applications for each institute applied, while
attaching separate receipt worth Rs. 500 for each of those. Applications of which the money is credited to some other account n umbers
other than the account number mentioned above will be rejected.
The applications received after the closing date will not be entertained.
Addresses of the Advanced Technological Institutes/ATI Sections as well as the courses conducted of those are available in the
section ‘B’ and the applicants should select their academic programs from the list given in Section ‘A’ according to their qualifications.
Mode of conduct of programs :
Day/Full Time Courses: During weekdays, day time
Part Time Courses : During Weekends, day time
Medium of Instruction : English
Part time courses are confined for those who are employed in  relevant fields.
Course fees.–  No course fees are levied for Day/Full Time Courses.  Part Time course fee per semester are as follows :
Higher National Diploma in Accountancy - HNDA Rs. 4,000
Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English) Rs. 6,000
Higher National Diploma in Information Technology - HNDIT Rs. 12,000
Interview.– Short listed students will have to either sit for a written test and/or face an interview for the selections. The short
listing of students will be based basically on the Z-Score of the Advanced Level Examination. Date, time and venue/or written test will be
notified in writing. Necessary original documents are to be submitted in the interview. When the original documents are not ava ilable,
certified photocopies will be accepted with the agreement of submitting the originals at the time of registration to the academic program.
Hostel Facilities.– Limited number of hostel facilities are available only for girls at ATI  Naiwala and Dehiwala. ATI Ampara and
Mattakkuliya are provided hostel facilities for both girls and boys. This facility is arranged only for the full time students .
Section "A"
01. Higher National Diploma in Engineering -  (HNDE) –  Civil (Full Time)  - 3 ½ years
Higher National Diploma in Engineering -  (HNDE) –  Electrical/Electronic (Full Time) 3 ½ years
Higher National Diploma in Engineering -  HNDE –  Mechanical (Full Time)  - 3 ½ years
Higher National Diploma in Building Services Engineering -  (HNDBSE) -  (Full Time) -  3 ½ years
Higher National Diploma in Quantity Surveying – (HNDQS) (Full Time) –    2  ½ years
Applicants should have the followings:-
(i) G .C.E. (A/L) Examination with three passes in Maths stream (2012/2011/2010),  in one sitting.
AND
(ii) Ordinary pass in English Language at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2376
02. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy - HNDA (Full Time)  -  4 years
Applicants should have one of the followings:-
(i) Passes for three subjects in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination  (New syllabus)  with Business Statistics,
Combined   Mathematics or Accountancy as one of the three subjects of which at least, two Credit passes  should
have been obtained.
A Credit pass in Mathematics at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination is considered as an alternative  for a credit pass in
either Business Statistics, Combined Mathematics or   Accountancy at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination ;
OR
(ii) Holders of National Certificate for Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical Education &
Training ;
AND
Ordinary pass in English at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
2.1 Higher National Diploma in Accountancy – HNDA (Part Time)  -  4 years
Applicants should have one of the followings :-
(i) Passes for all four subjects (Old syllabus)  / three subjects (New Syllabus)  in one  sitting at the  G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination ;
OR
(ii) Completion of  National Certificate in Accounting Technicians,  conducted by the    Department of   Technical
Education & Training ;
OR
(iii) Successful completion of National Certificate in Business Studies (Accountancy Group) or National Certificate
in   Accounting conducted by the  Department of Technical Education & Training ;
AND
Practical Experience – Applicant should be employed in the relevant field    in a   Government Institution / Public
Enterprises or a recognized firm.
Those who possess the following qualification will be exempted from the 1st year and will be admitted to the
2nd year when satisfying other entry requirements and availability of places :
(i) Completion of the National Diploma in Business Studies/Business Finance conducted by the Sri Lanka
Institute of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) ; or Department of Technical Education and
Training,
(ii) Completion of the Higher National Diploma in Business Administration/Business Finance/Management
conduct by the Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE),
(iii) Completion of second year, of the Higher National Diploma in Commerce conducted by the Sri Lanka
Institute of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) or Department of Technical Education and
Training,
(iv) University Degree in relevant field (Accountancy/Business Administration/B.Com. Marketing Management/
Human Resourses Management/Business Finance/Business Economics),
(v) Completion of CAB I and CAB II or Licentiate I and II at Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
(ICASL),
(vi) Completion of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) - UK - Part I and Part II,
(vii) Completion of the Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT-SL),
(viii) Completion of the Certified Management Accountants (CMA)-SL.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2377
03. Higher National Diploma in Management  – HNDM (Full Time) – 3 years and Higher National Diploma in
Tourism and Hospitality Management – HNDTHM (Full Time) – 3 years
Applicants should have one of the followings :
(i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L)Examination in any stream (Mathematics, Bio Science and
Commerce are preferable)
OR
(ii) National Certificate for Accounting Technicians or National Certificate in Business Studies (Public Administration/
Marketing) conducted by the Department of Technical Education and  Training,
AND
Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
04. Higher National Diploma in Business Administration – HNDBA  -  (Full Time) – 2 ½ years
Applicant should have one of the followings :
(i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Commerce stream ;
 OR
(ii) Successful completion of National Certificate in Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical
Education & Training ;
AND
An ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination.
05. Higher National Diploma in Information Technology – HNDIT   -  (Full time – 2 1/2 years / Part time – 2 ½
years)
Applicants should have one of the followings :
(i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in any stream. (Mathematics, Bio Science and
Commerce are preferable) ;
AND
(ii) Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination,
AND
Note :- (Only for part time students); should have been employed in IT related field.
06. Higher National Diploma in Technology -HNDT (Agriculture) (Full Time) – 3 years
Applicants should have one of the followings :
(i) Should have obtained four passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) in Bio-Science stream at one
sitting, two of which should be out of the following subjects: Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Botany, Zoology and
Physics ;
OR
(ii) Should have obtained 3 passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in Bio Science stream at one sitting,
two of which should be out of the following subjects: Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Biology and Physics ;
AND
(iii) Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
07. Higher National Diploma in English  (HND in English) – (Full time - 2  years course work and 06 months in-
plant training,/part time - 2 years course work only)
Applicants should have one of the followings: -
(i) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in any stream with 'C' pass in English Language
at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination  ;
OR

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2378
(ii) English specialist Teacher Training Certificate; or the Diploma offered by the College of Education ;
OR
(iii) Passes for all subjects in one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in any stream (new syllabus) and a general pass
for General English ;
OR
(iv) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in three subjects in any stream and  a pass at the National Certificate in
English for Commerce, Industry and further Education  Conducted by the Department of Technical Education &
Training or equivalent Qualifications.
Note.– The Part Time candidates should have a permanent employment in a relevant field with one of the
above mentioned qualifications.
08. Higher National Diploma in Business Finance – HNDBF - (Full  Time) –  2 ½ years
Applicants should have one  the followings:
(i) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) with four passes including    Economics, Commerce & Finance, Accountancy
in one sitting;
OR
(ii) G .C.E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) with three passes including Economics, Business Studies and Accounting
or any two of the above with one of the following subjects; Geography, Home Economics, Political Science, Logic
& Scientific Methods, Agricultural Science or Combined Mathematics in one sitting ;
OR
(iii) Successful completion of National Certificate for Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical
Education &  Training ;
AND
(iv) Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
09. Higher National Diploma in Food Technology – HNDFT (Full Time) – 2 ½ years
Applicants should have the followings:
(i) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination with three passes in Biological or Physical Science stream in one sitting ;
AND
(ii) Ordinary pass in mathematics and English Language at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
Section "B"
Name of the ATI, Address, Telephone Numbers and the Name of the courses
Serial Name of the ATI/ATI section Addresses T elephone Name of the courses are conducted
No. Numbers
01. Hardy Advanced T echnological Inginiyagala Rd., 063-2222056 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, HNDIT
Institute, Ampara. Ampara. 063-2223035 (FT), HNDT (Agri), HND in English (FT),
HND in English (PT)
02. Advanced Technological No. 388/35, Harishchandra 025-2234417 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English
Institute Section, Anuradhapura Mawatha, Anuradhapura. (PT)
03. Advanced Technological Greenland Drive, Badulla. 055-2230218 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM,
Institute, Badulla. 055-2223818 HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HNDIT (PT), HND
in English (FT), HND in English (PT),
HNDTHM

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2379
04. Advanced Technological Multi Purpose Building, 065-2247519 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English
Institute Section, Batticaloa Kovil Kulam East,  (PT)
Arayampathy.
05. Advanced Technological W aidya Rd., Dehiwala. 011-2714270 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM,
Institute, Dehiwala. 011-2738349 HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HND in English
(FT), HND in English (PT), HNDBF,
HNDTHM
06. Advanced Technological No. 665/5,Beach  Rd., 021-2222595 HNDE, HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM,
Institute, Jaffna. Guru Nagar,Jaffna. 021-2239803 HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HNDIT (PT), HND
in English (FT), HND in English (PT),
HNDTHM
07. Advanced Technological No. 16, Keppetipola Rd., 081-2226644 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT),  HNDM,
Institute, Kandy. Kandy . 081-2232097 HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HND in English
(FT), HND in English (PT), HNDTHM
08. Advanced Technological Bandaranayake Mawatha, 035-2221297 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute , Kegalle. K egalle. 035-2221713  HND in English (FT), HND in English (PT)
09. Advanced Technological No.22/1, Wilgoda Rd., 037-2224911 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, HNDIT
Institute, Kurunegala. Kurunegala. 037-2229583  (FT), HND in English (FT), HND in English
(PT)
10. Galle Advanced Technological Siridamma Mw., 091-2227880 HNDE, HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT),
Institute, Labuduwa Labuduwa, Akmeemana. 091-2246179 HNDM, HNDTHM, HNDBA, HNDIT
(FT), HNDIT (PT), HNDT (Agri), HND in
English (FT), HND in English (PT), HNDQS,
HNDBSE
11. Advanced Technological No. 42, Rodrigo Place, 011-2529479 HNDE, HNDQS, HNDBSE
Institute, Mattakkuliya Colombo 15 011-2521152
12. Advanced Technological Naiwala, Essalla, 033-2287519 HNDA (FT),  HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute, Naiwala. V eyangoda. 033-2292544 HNDT (Agri), HNDFT, HNDIT (PT)
13. Advanced Technological New Town, 045-2230780 HNDA (PT), HNDA (FT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute, Rathnapura. Ratnapura. HND in English (FT)
14. Advanced Technological Main Street, Samanthurai. 067-2261304 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English
Institute Section, Samanthurai. (PT)
15. Advanced Technological Y aya Watta, Netolpitiya, 091-2246179 HNDA (PT), HNDA (FT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute Section,Tangalle. T angalle. HND in Engilsh (FT)
16. Advanced Technological Kanniya Rd,Varodayanagar, 026-3262937 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute, Trincomalee. Trincomalee. HND in English (FT), HND in English (PT)
17. Advanced Technological "Janawathu Piyasa" 011-2691307 HNDA (FT), HND in English (FT)
Institute, Vauniya No. 230, T. B. Jayah
Mawatha, Colombo 10.
Note:-
1. The selected candidates in Higher National Diploma in Engineering, Higher National Diploma in Building Services
Engineering, Higher National Diploma in Quantity Surveying (Full time) should attend classes during weekdays as well
as on certain days during weekends, if the necessity arises.
Serial Name of the ATI/ATI section Addresses T elephone Name of the courses are conducted
No. Numbers

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2380
2. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy programme (Day/Full time)  for the first and second years is conducted only
on weekdays. Third and fourth years of this academic programme are conducted in weekends.
3. The first and second years of the Higher National Diploma in Management (Day/Full time) course will be conducted
during daytime of the weekdays and the third year will be conducted during the weekend.
4. A pass in the General Paper is compulsory for the applicants qualified in the GCE (A/L) new Syllabus.
5. It is considered the Z-Score or aggregate marks of the GCE (A/L) Examination as the selection criteria to select for each
and every academic programme.
6. Preference will be given for the candidates passed in subjects or in the field relevant to the academic programme.
7. For day courses, it will be given preference for those who are under 23 years.
8. It is required at least 25 applicants to conduct a course in the particular ATI or ATI Section.
9. If the number of applicants exceeds the expected number of students, an aptitude test will be conducted in institutional
wise.
     10.  For whatever the reason no student will be transferred to any other Advanced Technological Institute after their selecting
for a full time course in particular ATI or ATI Section.
11. Students who have registered for the courses with three years or above can be allowed to cancel the registration before 60
days starting from the closing date of registration given by the relevant institute.
Please note that the decision of the Director General SLIATE will be the final decision on the admission of students to Advanced
Technological Institute/Sections for the academic year 2014.
Closing date of applications 31.12.2013.
Web site : 
www.sliate.ac.lk
W. HILARY E. SILV A,
Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education,
No. 320, "Janawathu Piyasa",
T. B. Jayah Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
Office use only – Course Number …………
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
SRI  LANKA INSTITUTE OF ADVANCED TECHNOLOGICAL  EDUCATION
Application form for admission to Higher National Diploma Courses in 2014
 Name of the Course Order of preference
1 ………………....…… ………….........………...
 2 ………………….…… ………………...………..
 3  …………………....…  …….……..…………...…
 4  …………………....…  …….……..…………...…
 5  …………………....…  …….……..…………...…    .
1. Name with Initials :–––––––––––.
2. Name/Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
3. Address :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2381
4. Date of Birth : Year :–––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––, Date :–––––––––––.
Age (as at 31.12.2013) :  Years :–––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––.
5. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
6. Sex :  :–––––––––––.
7. Administrative District :–––––––––––.  Contact Phone Number  :–––––––––––.
8. (i) Result of GCE (A/L) Examination (on or Before 2012) :
Year:–––––––––––. Index No.  :–––––––––––.        Medium :–––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
1. ……………………. …………….
2. ……………………. …………….
3. ……………………. …………….
4. ……………………. …………….
If under new syllabus indicate pass or fail in the Common General Paper :–––––––––––.
Aggregate/Z-Score of the above Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Result of GCE (O/L) Examination :-
Year:–––––––––––. Index No.  :–––––––––––.        Medium :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ……………………. ……………. 6.  ……………………. …………….
2. ……………………. ……………. 7. ……………………. …………….
3. ……………………. ……………. 8.  ……………………. …………….
4. ……………………. ……………. 9.  ……………………. …………….
5. ……………………. ……………. 10.  ……………………. …………….
9. Highest Qualification in English as a subject :–––––––––––.
10. Only for part time courses :
Details of present employment :–––––––––––.
Date of Appointment :–––––––––––.
Post  :–––––––––––.
E.P.F. Number :–––––––––––.
Place of work and Address :–––––––––––.
I od hereby declare that I am not following any other full time course of study in any other state institution.  I am aware tha t
my registration will be cancelled at any time during the period of study if it is found that I concurrently follow a full time course at any
other state institution. I hereby certify that the information furnished here is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(The bank receipt for Rs.500 payable to SLIATE should be annexed.)
12-530

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2382
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  SECOND  LANGUAGE  TEST  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE,  SRI  LANKA  ENGINEERING  SERVICE,  SRI  LANKA  SCIENTIFICS ERVICE  AND
SRI  LANKA  ARCHITECTS'  SERVICE - 2013 (II)   SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS
IN  SRI  LANKA  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE -  2013 (II)
IT is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency Test for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative
Service, Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service and Second Efficiency Bar Examination
for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service will be held in Colombo during weekends from 18 th January 2014 to 02nd February
2014, by the Director, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration, under the supervision and direction of Ministry of Pu blic
Administration and Home Affairs.
02. Efficiency Bar Examinations and Second Language Proficiency Tests which are due to be held in respect of the above
services will be as follows:
Serial Name of the Examination Code
No.
1. 1 st Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency SLAS1
Test for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service
2. 1 st Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency SLES
Test for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service
3. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency SLSS
Test for officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service
4. 1 st Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Proficiency SLArS
Test for officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service
5. 2nd  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka SLAS2
Administrative Service
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is compulsory t o
pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period.
04. This examination will be conducted by the Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to the same. Candidates will be subjected to a ny
punishment imposed by Disciplinary Authority for violation of these rules and regulations.
05. Applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk. the official web site of the Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Administration. It is possible to commence the filling of applications for examination selecting the r elevant
examination by way of opening the sub menu "Examinations" from the main menu of www.slida.1k. Filling of applications is strictly
allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 13.12.2013 up to 12.00 midnight on 03.01.2014.
06. Examination Fees .– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination fees.  For
subsequent sittings, officers should pay the examination fee in the following manner.
Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service should pay the examination fee considering that the First Efficiency Bar Examination
and Second Language Proficiency Test as one Examination and Second Efficiency Bar Examination as another examination. Accordingly,
Rs. 1000/- should be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Languag e
Proficiency Test. Rs. 1000/- should be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination . Rs. 500
should be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Rs. 500/ - should be paid if it is applied only
for one subject of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination.
The officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Architects' Service should pay Rs. 1000/-, if they
are applying for more than one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and. Rs. 500/ - should be paid, if they are sitt ing for only
one subject. Examination fee should be paid by any post office all over the island (except sub post offices) to be credited to the SLIDA
account and the number of the receipt issued should be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. When filling the application for
inland telegraphic money order for payment of money to SLIDA account, "SUDA" should be mentioned as the recipient. In the meantime,
the code name of the relevant examination should be indicated at the place for the recipient's address. (The code names should be as
mentioned in section 02).

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2383
Further, when crediting money to the account, the application should be filled including the name of the applicant as the remitter
and the N.I.C. Number of the applicant at the space for the address of the remitter.
07. When the application filled online is submitted, the candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the candidate should
keep it for further inquiries. Candidates will be able to get their admission card of the examination by way of following the i nstructions
indicated in the web page to which the candidate will have the access once the application duly perfected is sent online. The c andidate
should get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature certified by the respective Head of the Department or a d eputy
authorized by the Head for the purpose. The admission card certified in this manner should be submitted to the Supervisor of th e
examination.
08. Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the Telephone Number 011 -
5980236 of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. Communication can be made through this line from 8.30 a.m up to 4 .30
p.m during working days of the week from 13.12.2013 up to 03.01.2014.
09. Head of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit for the
examination. If the applicants need to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the Telephone Number 011-5980236 .
Candidates will not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination.
10. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of  Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
11. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. If it is found that a candidate has appeared for the
examination in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant will be cancelled.
12. Scheme of Examination: Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows.
12.1 1st Efficiency Bar Examination a nd Second Language Proficiency Test for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service
(Appendix "C" of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute published in the Gazette No: 1419/03 dated 14-11-2005)
The subjects of the examination are given below :
Serial Subjects Duration Subject
Number Number
01 Constitutional  Law  and 03 hours 01
Administrative Law
02 The Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 03 hours 02
03 Criminal Law & Evidence Law 03 hours 03
04 Administration 03 hours 04
05 Economics 03 hours 05
06 Sociology 03 hours 06
07 English 03 hours 07
12.1.1 Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01) A question paper based on the following:
(i) The structure of the Constitution of Sri Lanka with historical development and the Second Republic Constitution.
(ii) The Executive, President of the Republic, Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister, Central Government
Departments and the Public Service.
(iii) Administration of Justice.
(iv) Judicial control over Administration.
(v) Directive Principles of the State Policy and Fundamental Duties.
(vi) Delegated Legislation.
(vii) Liability of the State and the Public Authorities.
(viii) Fundamental Rights.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2384
12.1.2. The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 02) A question paper based on the following:
(i) The Legal History of Sri Lanka
(ii) The Organization of the Courts
(iii) The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 6)
(iv) The Act of No. 44 of 1971 Administration of Justice
12.1.3. Criminal Law and Evidence Law (Subject No. 03) A question paper based on the following:
(i) The Penal Code
(ii) The Evidence Ordinance.
Note: A candidate will be required to obtain 35% of marks for each of the subjects mentioned under 12.1.1., 12.1.2. and
12.1.3. above and an average of 40% of the total marks allocated for the 03 subjects.
12.1.4. Administration (Subject No. 04)
A question paper based on the following:
(i) Office and Field Organization and Methods;
(ii) Procedural rules published by the Public Service Commission, in the Gazette Extra-ordinary  of the Government
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and following chapters of the Establishment Code (Chapters VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII,
XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII).
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.1.5. Economics (Subject No. 05)/ Sociology (Subject No. 06)
Candidates are required to sit only for one subject out of Economic & Sociology.
12.1.5.1. Economics (Subject No. 05) A paper based on the following:
(i) Principles of Economics with special reference to the theories of Value,  Production and Distribution;
(ii) Money, Financial Activity and Theory of Money;
(iii) The Economic Structure of Sri Lanka.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.1.5.2. Sociology (Subject No. 06)
A question paper based on the following (with Special reference to Sri Lanka.)
(i) Social Structure, Organization and Functions;
(ii) Human Relationships and Groupings;
(iii) Kinship, Marriage and the Family;
(iv) Rural and Urban Society;
(v) Social Stratification and Differentiations;
(vi) Social Control;
(vii) Culture, Religion, Morals and Values.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.1.6. English (Subject No. 07)
The syllabus for this subject will be as follows.
(i) LISTENING AND SPEAKING SKILLS
The candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following Language functions.
· General Greetings and Introductions
· Giving and Getting information
· Advising, Suggesting and Expressing Opinions
· Describing Events and Situations
· Telephone skills
· Interviewing skills
· Meeting
· Listening and Note Taking skills
(ii) ENGLISH GRAMMER
A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammar in the Spoken and the Written language is
expected from the candidate.
· Tense and Number
· Sentences (Simple/Compound/Complex/Compound Complex)
· Relative Clauses
· Reported Speech

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2385
· Adjectives and Adverbs
· Determiners
· Prepositions
(iii) WRITING SKILLS
The knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study
· Internal modes of Communication
· Formal correspondence skills
· Writing Descriptions/Explanations
· Summary writing skills
· Report Writing skills
· Meeting Minutes/ Agendas/Invitations
· Comprehension
(iv) READING SKILLS
Candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbs 1/ written interpretation is expected.
· Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text;
· Reading and Interpretation (verbal/written).
Understanding the cohesion and coherence a passage.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.1.7 Second Language Test
These examinations consist of two parts as written test and oral test. Only the candidates who pass the written test
shall be called for the oral test corresponding to the relevant subject. The subjects of the written test are as follows.
Subject Duration Subject Number
Second  Language  Test - Sinhala 02 hours 13
Second  Language Test - Tamil 02 hours 14
Second Language Test - English 02 hours 15
Note:- The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Sinhala medium shall be Tamil
Language. The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Tamil Medium shall be
Sinhala Language. In the meantime, an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in English Language is required to
pass Sinhala & Tamil Language Tests.
12.2. First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka
Architects' Service.
Subjects of these examinations are as follows :
Subject Duration Subject  Number
Financial Systems 03 hours 12
Administration 03 hours 04
12.2.1Financial Systems (Subject No. 12)
A question paper consisting of questions based on following facts.
(i) Financial Regulations of Government of Sri Lanka - V olume I (Except Chapter X)
(ii)  Estimates of the current year. Eg. Preparations of estimates, votes, financial systems and appropriation acts.
Note.– Candidates are required to secure at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.2.2 Administration (Subject No. 04)
A question paper consisting of questions base on following facts.
(i) Office and field organization and methods ;
(ii) Procedural rules published by the Public Service Commission, in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Government
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and following chapters of the Establishment Code (Chapters VI,
VII,IX,XI,XXIII,XXV ,XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII).
Note.– Candidates are required to secure at least 40% of marks for this subject.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2386
12.2.3 Second Language Test :
This examination consists of two parts as written test and oral test. Only the candidates who pass the written test
shall be called for the oral test corresponding to the relevant subject. The subjects of the written test are as follows.
Subject Duration Subject Number
Second Language  Test - Sinhala 02 hours 13
Second Language Test - Tamil 02 hours 14
Second Language Test - English 02 hours 15
Note:- The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Sinhala medium shall be Tamil
Language. The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Tamil Medium shall
be Sinhala Language. In the meantime, an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in English Language is required
to pass Sinhala & Tamil Language Tests.
12.3 The Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Appendix "D" of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service minute published in Gazette No: 1419/03 dated 14.11.2005)
Serial No. Subjects Duration Subject  No.
01 Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) 03 hours 08
02 The Process of Development Administration (with special 03 hours 09
reference to Sri Lanka);
03 Management and Organization. 03 hours 10
04 Public Sector Financial Management 03 hours 11
12.3.1 Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) : (Subject No. 08)
A paper based on the factors which influence the formulation of economic and social policy in Sri Lanka. The
application of the principles of Economics and Sociology in recent economical, social and political history of Sri
Lanka.
Note: A Candidate will be required to obtain a at least of 40% of marks for this subject.
12.3.2 The Process of Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka):-(Subject No. 09)
A paper based on the Institution of Development Administration, their working and their inter-relationships with
special reference to:-
(i) The Machinery of Government in Sri Lanka;
(ii) The constitutional background of the machinery of Government in Sri Lanka;
(iii) Provincial Councils and Local Government;
(iv) People’s Organizations;
(v) Public Corporations.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.3.3 Management and Organization; (Subject No. 10)
A paper based on the following
(i) The principles of management and organization;
(ii) The application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector.
(iii) Modern tools and techniques of management.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.3.4 Public Sector FInancial Management (Subject No. 11) :
A question paper based on the following :-
(i) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka;
Constitutional Provisions Relating to Public Financial Management
Parliamentary Control over Public Finance  Meaning of Fund
Consolidated Fund and its operation
Meaning and Methods of Appropriation
Contingencies Fund
Other Funds and their Operation
Government Revenue
Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance
Powers and Functions of the Treasury
Warrants and Imprest Authority
Auditor General, his Powers and Functions
Committee on Public Expenditure
Committee on Public Enterprises

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2387
(ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers and their Powers
and Function
(iii) Internal Audit
(iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management; Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
Identification of Government Policies, Goals Targets and the Work Development
Programmes
Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and  Prioritization of them
Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure
(v) Variations of Approved Estimates of Expenditure Application of Virement Procedure
Management of Public Sector Cadres and Salaries Total Cost Estimates and Revisions Supplementary Estimates
(vi) Losses and Waivers of Govt. Properties
(vii) Miscellaneous Accounting Matters
(viii) Delegation of Functions for Financial Control
(ix) Custody of Public Money and Bank Accounts Procedure
(x) Govt. Procurement Procedure, Procurement of Goods, Services and Works
Composition, Appointment, Power and Functions of Tender Boards and Technical Evaluation Committees
Tender Evaluation Procedure .
Management of Donor Funded Projects.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
13. The timetable of the examination is as follows :
Serial Name  of  the Subject Subject Date Time
No Examination No.
01 1
st  Efficiency  Bar Constitutional Law and 01 18.01.2014 9.00 -12.00
Examination for Administrative Law
, Officers in Sri  Lanka Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 02 18.01.2014 13.00 -16.00
Administrative Criminal Law and Evidence 0 3 19.01.2014 9.00 -12.00
Service Law
Administration 04 19.01.2014 13.00- 16.00
Economics 05 25.01.2014 9.00 -12.00
Sociology 06 25.01.2014 9.00 -12.00
English 07 25.01.2014 13.00- 16.00
02 1 st  Efficiency  Bar Financial Systems 12 26.01.2014 9.00 -12.00
Examination  for Administration 04
Officers in Sri Lanka 19.01.2014 13.00- 16.00
Engineering Service
03 1 st Efficiency Bar Financial Systems 12 26.01.2014 9.00 -12.00
Examination  for Administration 04
Officers in Sri Lanka 19.01.2014 13.00- 16.00
Scientific Service
04 1 st  Efficiency  Bar Financial Systems 12 26.01.2014 9.00 -12.00
Examination  for Administration 04
Officers in Sri Lanka 19.01.2014 13.00- 16.00
Architects’ Service
05 Second Language Test Second Language Proficiency 13 02.02.2014 14.00- 16.00
for  officers  of  Sri Lanka Test - Sinhala
Administrative Second Language Proficiency 14 02.02.2014 9.00 -11.00
Service,  Sri  Lanka Test - Tamil
Engineering Service, Second Language Proficiency 15 02.02.2014 11.30 -13.30
Sri  Lanka  Scientific Test - English
Service and Sri Lanka
Architects' Service
06 2 nd  Efficiency  Bar Economic & Social Policy 08 26.01.2014 9.00 -12.00
Examination for The Process of Development 09 26.01.2014 13.00 - 16.00
Officers in Sri Lanka Administration
Administration Management  and 10 01.02.2014 9.00 -12.00
Service Organization
Public  Sector  Financial 11 01.02.2014 13.00 - 16.00
Management

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2388
14. Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations will be made in the
following manner.
Examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted
1 st Efficiency Bar Examination Constitutiona Law and Administrative Law Should be an Barister, Advocate in a Supreme
and Second Language Test for Legal Systems of Sri Lanka Court, Graduate in Law from a university
Officers in Sri Lanka Criminial Law and evidence Law
Administrative Service Economics Socialogy Should be a holder of a special Degree in
Economics or Sociology
Second Language Test - Sinhala (i) Should have passed the first language
Second Language Test - Tamil or second language at G.CE. (OIL).
(ii) Should have successfully completed a
basic or higher language course of the
Department of Official Languages.
(iii) Should have successfully completed a
language course of Department of Official
Languages at preliminary or higher level.
(iv) Should have passed the optional Sinhala
or Tamil subject at G .CE. (O/L)
Second Language Test - English Should have obtained an ordinary pass or
above for English language at G . C. E. (O/L)
Note: Officers who have been recruited on or after 02.01.2012 are not required to sit for the Second Language Proficiency
Test mentioned in this Examination Notification in order to acquire proficiency in other official language according the
provisions of their letters of appointment, but they should acquire the proficiency in other official language as per the
provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007.
15. Issuance of results: The results of all the candidates who have applied/ sat for this examination shall be published in the web
site of the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs. It is not allowed to apply for re-scrutinizing the results of t he
examination.
16. Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
P. B.  A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
28th of November, 2013.
12–596
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.