

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2110$57 - 2019 fmnrjdß ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'02'15
No. 2110/57 -  FRIDAY  FRBRUARY  15,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG  4388— 20  (02/2019)
SOUTHERN   PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Registration of Trading Places precept of the Southern Provincial Council
I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Trade of the Southern Provincial Council do hereby notify
that the draft of the registration of trading places precept No. .... of 2019 of the Southern Provincial Council published
hereunder will be presented in the Southern Provincial Council of the expiry of two weeks from the date of its publication
in this Gazette. Any person who wishes to make any representation or amendment regarding any of the provisions of the
said precept, shall forward the same to me within the said period.
U
DALAMATHTHA  G AMAGE D AY AWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,
Minister,
Southern Provincial Ministry of Agriculture,
Agrarian Development, Irrigation, Water Supply and
Drainage, Food Supply and Distribution,
Trade and Cooperative Development.
Office of the Minister of Trade,
Galle,
0n 14th January, 2019.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
2A
SOUTHERN    PROVINCE   PRECEPT   FOR   REGISTRATION   OF   TRADING   PLACES
No. ........ OF 2019
This Precet is, to regularize the trading establishments that have not been incorporated within the Southern
Province, to register the institutions and persons who conduct such establishments, to make provisions
for all activities associated with such regulation and to create regulations to rescind the Southern Province
Trade Names Registration Precept No. 1 of 1991.
It is herewith enacted by the Provincial Council of the Southern Province of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. This Precept shall be known as the Southern Province Trading Places Registration Precept
No. ..... of 2019 and shall come into effect when approved by the Governor of the Southern
Province.
S
ECTION 1
2. (1) All persons who carry out a business place of trade, not incorporated, within the Southern
Province (hereinafter referred to as Places of Trading), should register under this Precept
and conduct the trade with a relevant certificate.
(2) The Certificate so obtained for a place of trade under this article should be clearly
exhibited within the precinct of the place of business.
(3) As per this article the work procedures applicable, to register a place of business, to
cancel a registration granted, to specify the specimen forms applicable and to prescribe
other associated activities connected to registration, should be according to the rules
enacted by the  Minister under this Precept.
3. Those trading establishments or person/persons who have obtained Trade Name Certificates,
prior to the date of activation of this precept and are conducting their trade, under Southern
Province Trade Name Precept No. 1 of 1991, should be considered as having been registered
under this precept. However, any change or cancellation that takes place after the date of
activation of this precept should be instituted according to the provisions of this precept.
4. (1) It is not permitted to apply for a trade name containing words such as, the President,
Presidential, Nation, State, Sri Lanka, Money, Monetary or Urban or Incorporated or
words in the opinion of the registrar may imply, or have room to imply, some relationship
with a Municipal Council, any other Local Government Institution, with a society
incorporated under an act of Parliament, with a Board, a state institution, or words similar
to Corporation, Corporative or words that are for Historical or Cultural heritage or
words that signify a community, a caste or a religion or words that the Provincial Company
registrar may consider to be inappropriate.
(2) If, the nature and the manner in which the trade name and the registration is used
undermines social virtues and threatens public peace or has the potential to hurt religious
or communal values of a particular group of persons, or to mislead the public, or if the
name applied is already awarded within the Southern Provincial Council under the
Company Law, such Trade names should not be applied for, Similarly, if the Registarar
receives such names for registration, he/she should decline to register such names.
Abbreviated name
& date effective
Business
institution &
persons should
register
Previously
registered
institutions
Word that should
not be used for
business names

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
5. (1) The change of nature of the business, or the change of place of business, could be
accomplished by forwarding a written request to that effect.
(2) In the case of change of ownership in business, the following procedure should be
followed :
(a) in the event where the owner of the business is alive,
the owner of the business (registered owner) should submit an affidavit whereby
he expresses his willingness to transfer the business and the succeeding owner
should forward a letter of consent to take over the business.
(b) In the event where the proceding owner is deceased.
(I) if the deceased owner has mentioned about the transfer of business in a Last
Will he has executed before his death, the business would be tranferred as
mentioned in the Will subject to the relevant judiciary process.
(II) If the deceased owner has no last will and if he/she is married, the business
could be transferred in the name the legitimate inheritor, with the consent
of children above 18 years of age (the consent should be in the form of
affidavits) and if there are children below 18 years of age, the business could
be transferred in the name of the legitimate inheritor (subject to a request
from the legitimate inheritor).
(III) If the deceased owner is not married and if he has no last will, the business
could be tranferred in the name of a person upon his/her request with the
consent of the Father, mother and brothers and sisters above 18 years of age
(the consent in the form of affidavits).
(3) (a) In cases of (II) and (III) above it is advisable to call for a report from the Grama
Sevaka of the area before the transfer is affected on the request forwarded.
(b) In the case of (I) and (II) above, the estate of the deceased will be subject to a
judicial process and hence the transfer of the business should be in keeping with
the court order issued.
(4) When a new partner is taken in to a partnership business, the inclusion request should be
made by way of an amendment application. When there are more than two partners it is
possible for one or more partners to leave the partnership and new partners to enter.
However, when there are only two partners and when one partner is leaving the business
the remaining partner should cancle the partnership and register the business as a sole
proprietorship.
(5) Converting a sole proprietor business in to a partnership.
This conversion could be accomplished by obtaining the consent of the existing
proprietor and the prospective partners for the purpose, by way of affidavits. In this case
the commencement date of the partnership business would be the date on which the
documents are handed over to the office.
(6) Converting a Partnership in to a sole Proprietorship.
The consent of all partner should be obtained by way of affidavits. In that it should be
expressed that the preceding partners wish the business to run in the future. (It should
Amendments

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
4A
mention the exit of the partners who leave and the fact that the business is to continue as
a sole proprietorship). Futher the person who is taking over the business should express,
by way of an affidavit, his willingness clearly, to take over the business.
(7) However, when effecting the above amendments, it should be ensured that such
Amendments are done subject to the fulfillment of the following conditions.
(a) The name of the sole proprietorship or the partnership should not be amended
fully.
(b) The nature of the business should not be drastically amended.
(c) When a sole proprietorship is converted into a partnership, the sole proprietor of
the sole proprietor business should be a partner in the partnership.
(d) When a partnership is converted into a sole proprietorship the sole proprietor of
the succeding business should be one of the partners of the preceding business.
S
ECTION II
Appointments, Conduct and Administration
6. (1) It is necessary to appoint a Provincial Registrar of Trading places (in future referred to
as the Registrar) to conduct the duties of registering the trading places of the province.
For this purpose, the Secretary to the Minister in charge of Trade in the Southen Provincial
Council, by virtue of the office he/she holds is being appointed to the position of the
Provincial Registrar of the Trading Places in the Southern Provincial Council.
(2) In keeping with the provision of this precept the general administration and the
Supervision of the registration of Trading places within the province fails within the
purview of the registrar.
7. As per this Precept, the powers of the registrar, his work objectives and duties could be delegated
to an officer to be performed under the authority and supervision of the registrar. Accordingly,
power could be delegated to the AGA of the District or any such officer and that officer who
performs the duties on behalf of the secretary would be empowered to place his own signature
and issue certificates for trade places registrations.
8. (1) As per this Precept, the Registrar may issue a directive to a particular person to provide
certain information that is required in the opnion of the registrar, within the time specified
by the registrar, to evaluate whether a business owned or partnered by that person should
be registered under this Precept or not, or whether any change should be affected to the
particulars, provided for registration. In the case of a corporation, the registrar may
issue the directive to either the Secretary of the corporation or to the person discharging
the duties of the Secretary.
(2) A person who has not responded to the information solicited by the registrar as per
clause (1) above within the time specified by him or within the time further accommodate
by the registrar or a person who provides false information is guilty of an offence and
when found guilty at a summary trail, is liable to pay a sum not exceeding rupees one
thousand five hundred for every single day for which that directive is continuously
Appointment of
the registrar and
registrar’s duties
Delegation of
powers
Providing
information to the
registrar

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
disregarded or to undergo a terms of imprisonment for period not exceeding six months
or in either of the two ways, should be subjected to either a period of imprisonment or
a fine and a period of imprisonment.
(3) During the course of a trial as mentioned in clause (2) above, if the Court forms the
opinion that the information as specified in the directive issued within the time specified
by the registrar should be made available to the registrar, the Courts may issue such
directive to the person concerned to provide or cause to provide such informaiton.
(4) If, according to this observations of the Registrar, a certain business organization or a
certain businessman has affected changes to a  business as against the particulars provided
at the time of its registration, the registrar may order the business establishment or
person concerned to provide the information so required within the  time allowed by the
registrar. However, when it is revealed that the provision of information has been
disregarded and when the registrar has issued notice to provide reasons for such disregard
under this clause, no legal acton may be instituted until the lapse of the period mentioned
in the registrar’s notice.
(5) In the event where a change takes place every time in the nature of business, place of
business or the ownership of the business of a business registered under this precept, an
application for  registration of those changes should be made supported by an affidavit
within one month of such changes and due registration should be obtained.
9. (1) If the registrar forms the opinion that a certain business is not providing sufficient
information for him to carry out the duties under this precept and further, if he feels that
certain items of material information have not been disclosed, the registrar has the
authority to appoint and officer in writing for the purpose of investigation and securing
the required information as specified by the registrar and such delegation of authority
or appointment should be logged in the relevant current duty log.
(2) In case where a situation warrants the appointment of an officer as stated in clause (1)
above, the officer so appointed may obtain the services of a Peace Officer if he feels
that is required, or he may resort to anyone, or all of the following courses of action in
the discharge of his duty.
(a) If he/she has confidential information to believe that the relevant documents are
available at a particular place or a building he/she may enter that place or building
and inspect or cause to inspect  those documents and information.
(b) May also obtain a copy, a note or an inventory from a book, registrar or Document
stumbled upon during the course of an inquiry or search in a particular building.
(c) May also question and inquire any person found in such premises with regard to
duties and matters relevant to this precept ; the provisons available for inquiries
and searches under Criminal Procedure Code No. 15 of 1979 should be made
available a far as possible for inquiries conducted under this artilce.
(d) May also take into his custody, any document or book that he feels is relevant
after having issued a receipt for such removal to the person in whose prossession
that item had been and may also take steps to enlist such item in the current duty
log mention in clause (1) above.
Power to inquire
& search

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
6A
(3) If any person, organization, corporation, representative, director, officer or an employee
of an organization, obstruct or fails to allow the registrar or the person authorized by
the registrar in writing to perform his/her duty in providing an information, a book, a
document, a report or any other written material, when such duties have been detailed
under the provisions of this Precept, such person or organization is guilty of an offence,
unless it is proved that such officer or employee of the organization did so without that
person’s knowledge or that everything possible has been done with due enthusiasm to
prevent such obstruction or failure.
(4) In a situation where the person who commits the offense as per clause (3) above is in a
partnership, all the members of that partnership and managers at the time of committing
that offense would be considered guilty of the said offence, and when found guilty at a
summary trial before a court of justice, should be punished, either of the two ways of a
term of imprisonment or a fine or a term of imprisonment and a fine, both.
(5) In extending an existing registration or in issuing a new registration under this Precept,
it should not be a bar to issue  a certificate under a prior business registration.
10. (1) When a registration of a business is sought under this Precept, if the registrar requests
the submission of an additional statement from the applicant, the applicant should submit
such additional statement within the time specified and that statement should be allowed
to be filed in the relevant file. Accordingly, when that statement is to the satisfaction of
the registrar, steps should be taken to enable the applicant to receive, or to be sent be
registered post, the certificate of registration of the business.
(2) The person or business organization issued with a registration certificate as per clause
(1) above, should take steps to properly displayed that registration certificate or a certified
copy of that certificate at the principal place of its business and all other places of
business connected to the registration within 14 days of such issue.
(3) Every business organization or person registered under this Precept should :
(a) carry in all their Letterheads,
(1) the name of the person or the names of all the partners of the business, the
registration number of the Business certificate and the principal place of
business, in a business run by a person (where not a single partner is a
corporation) and run in collaboration with partners.
(II) the name of the person or the name of all the partners of the business
including the names of the corporations and the particulars of incorporation,
the registration number of the Business certificate and the principal place
of business, in a business run by a person (where one or more partners are a
corporation) and run in collaboration with partners.
(b) carry in all their Receipts,
(I) the name of the business and
(II) the registration number of the business certificate
Filing statements
by the registrar
displaying the
certificate

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
(4) A person or business organization that do not comply with clause (2) and clause (3)
above, if that person or organization is a partner of a business registered under the
Precept, every partner, manager or custodian of such business, is committing an offence
and once found guilty at a summary trial before a court of justice, should be subjected
to a fine not exceeding rupees two thousand.
(5) A statement made, should not understood for its prima facie value or for connected
matters therein except against the person who makes that statement or for registering
that a statement, or for the certificate of registration.
11. (1) If a business organization or a person registered under this Precept ceases its business
activities under its certificate of registration, that organization or person, within three
months of such cessation, should notify the registrar of that cessation by handing over
or sending by registered post a statement in the form specified. This duty under this
artilce should be performed by the partners or the person registered at the time of this
cessation or in the event of death of partners or the person, by the personal representatives
of such partners or person.
(2) When the person who is bound to make the declaration as per clause (1) above, has
disregarded to act accordingly within the period specified, he is guilty of committing an
offence under this precept, and when found guilty at a summary trial before Court of
Justice is subject to a fine not exceeding rupees ten thousand.
(3) Once the declaration as per clause (1) above is received by the registrar, the registrar
should file that statement accordingly and taken the name of the subject person or
organization off the register and should mention that fact in the register.
(4) When the registrar has justifiable reasons to believe that a person or organization
registered under this precept is not conducting business under that particular
registration ;
(a) the registrar may notify the concerned person or business by registered post or by
a notice published in public press to submit reasons within a month of that notice,
to furnish reasons if there are to say, as to why the registration of that particular
person or organization should not be cancelled. Having done that, if the register
does not receive a satisfactory response within one month of that notification, the
registrar may proceed to notice that the registration of the subject business has
been cancelled. If the registrar receive no response to that notice within one month
of that notice he/she should make a notification in the gazette that such persons
or organization will be taken off from the business name register or
(b) sent or cause to send by registered post that notice to the person, organization and
to each partner to his/her residential address a copy of that notice immediately.
(5) Having made that notification duly, and if the registrar does not receive a protest within
one month of that notification, the registrar may proceed to take the name of that business
person or organization off from the business register.
12. (1) When a particular application for registration of a business is made contravening this
Precept or the rules and provisions enacted under the precept, the registrar or the officer
delegated with due authority should refuse to register that application.
Notice of
termination & de-
listing from the
Registrar
Power to refuse
registration

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
8A
(2) In parentheses to registering a place of business under this Precept, if that place could
be barred from the use as a premises to the business, the registration should not be
construed to bestow power to the use of such premises.
13. In the event where as applicaton for registration of a business is refused or a registration  of a
business is terminated under this precept, a person or organization continuing to conduct that
business is committing an offence under this precept and once found guilty at a summary trial
before a Court Justice, should be subject to a fine of rupee two thousand and a further fine of
rupees five hundred for every date that the business is made to function since found guilty.
14. When a person or organization is not satisfied with the decision made or an order issued by
the registrar on a particular issue, such person or organization, once that decision or order is
communicated in writing, may make an appeal to the Minister in charge of the subject. The
minister in turn should make known his decision within three months of making such appeal
and that descision would be the final decision on the issue.
15. (1) A person or organization may inspect the record of his business by scrutinizing the files
and records maintained by the registrar after paying the fees specified for the purpose.
(2) A business person or an organization registered under the precept is entitle to request a
certificate of registration or a certificate done on a specified format with information
about the business from the registrar. That certificate or certifed copy however, is issued
at a fee determined by the registrar.
(3) A certificate of registration or a copy of a statement registered supplied under this
Precept or a photo copy or an extract, when certified as a true copy by the registrar’s
signature duly such document should be considered as evidence in any Court of Law.
If the registrar, after a due inquiry, is convinced that a particular trading certificate, filed
or bound in a certain file or a registrar, is lost, has deteriorated or is destroyed or that
certain notes or material parts of such notes have been erased or made illegible, the
registrar may prepare and issue another certificate in place.
16. If, a notice, written notificaion, a certificate or any other document that has to be sent as
required by the provisions of this Precept, has been sent by registered post to the registered
address of the main place of business of the recipient by the Business Names Registrar, that
could be considered as duly sent or handed over for all intents and purposes.
17. (1) In a situation where a certain business person or an organization has requested a trading
certificate under this precept and where that party has disregarded to submit some
information the registrar has requested in writing or has not made amendments in the
first application as ordered by the registrar, the registrar may issue a notice on a specified
format to that person or organization stating to provide that information or to make that
amendment. From the date of such notice, within a period of one month or within an
extended period the registrar may agree to grant, if the concerned person or organization
fail to fulfill the requirements laid down, the registrar may consider that application for
registration to have rescinded and  thus, may refuse to take any further action to issue a
certificate.
However, if that person or organization pays the extra fees ordered on the initial
application and provides the information prescribed by the registrar or to make the
amendment directed by the registrar, the registrar may take further action on the rescinded
application.
Fine for using a
trade name
refused or
terminated
Appeals
Examining the
statements
registered and
issuing certified
copies
Handing over the
notices
Situations where
applications are
rescinded

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
(2) A person or organization that used a Business Certificate cancelled under this article
and is continuing to use such certificate without taking steps to act as per 2nd paragraph
clause (1) above, is committing an offense as per the Precept and once found guilty at a
summary trial before a Magistrate should be subject to a fine not exceeding rupees two
thousand and for a further continuing fine of rupees one hundred for every day that the
business continues to commit that offense.
18. (1) The fees chargeable under this Precept, for registering a business organization, for
extending a registration, for issuing a certificate relevant to registration, for issuing a
statement, copy or for any other service provided by the registrate, should be according
to the orders issued by the Minister as per the rules.
(2) The compensatory stipend payable to the authorized officers for discharging their duty
in acting and maintaining activity with powers delegated by the registrar under this Precept,
should be made with the recommendation of the Southern Province Chief Secretary,
approved by the Board of Ministers of the Southern Provincial Council.
19. (1) As specifically mentioned as, should be done according to rules’, on certain matters in
this Precept, the Minister may formulate rules under this precept.
(2) Every rule formulated by the Minister should be published in the Gazette and should be
effective from the date of the Gazette or from the future date mentioned in the Gazette
notification and having come into effect thus, should be submitted to the Southern
Provincial Council for approved within three months of the date of which, it came in to
effect.
(3) Accordingly, if the Southern Provincial Council happens to turn down certain rules
submitted for its approval, such rules should be treated as rescinded from the date on
which those were turned down out subject to the position that no adverse impact on that
rescindment may be fall on the activities that have taken place from the date those rules
were considered effective and that date on which those were rescinded.
(4) In such an event, the date that is considered as the date on which the subject rules were
rescinded should be published in the Gazette.
20. (1) (a) A person or organization that maintains that a particular business is registered
while being knowledgeable of that statement falsity and a person or organization
that deliberately changes the registration number of the business registration
certificate.
(b) A  business person or organization that submits or causes to submit a false affidavit,
are guilty of an offence and once found guilty at a summary trial before a Magistrate
is subject to a penalty of either a sum of rupees not exceeding twenty thousand or
a term of imprisonment not exceeding a period of six months.
21. Even though this Precept and rules made under the same bestows absolute power on the
registrar, despite the fact that there is opportunity for the affected party to forward reasons on
his/her behalf, the registrar should always exercise his absolute power in good faith subject to
unquestionable bona-fides .
22. A notebook on registration maintained by the registrar under this Precept where documents
discrepancies are noted from time to time, the registrar could follow up and rectify same
after conducting his/her own examination.
Rules to
determine the
charges
Making false
statements and
claiming
registration by
default
Registrar’s
absolute power
Rectifying
Document Short
Comings

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
10A
23. It is not ethical or a ‘done thing’ to file action of cause to file action against the registrar
under this Precept, when he has discharged his duties with, or said to have done with, the best
of bonafide intentions.
24. The registrar and any other person acting on delegated power of the registrar, as along as they
perform their duties in that capacities should be considered as public servant for the purpose
of definition in the Penal Code.
25. All documents, report and register that are prescribed to be maintained under the provisions
of this Precept should be maintained at the registered office under the supervision of the
registrar or the office authorized by the registrar.
26. (1) From the day this Precept comes into effect, the Southern Province Business Names
Precept No. 1 of 1991 stands rescinded by this Precept, and all registers maintained
under the said precept with due supervision of the Provincial Business names registrar
or an officer authorized by him, should be considered as those maintained under the
present Precept
(2) The certificates issued under the Business Names Precept No. 1 of 1991 should be
considered as certificates issued under the current Precept to the required extent during
the period up to 31st December of the financial year succeeding the year in which the
current Precept was brought into effect.
(3) Further any legal matter that is being pursued in any judiciary under the said Precept
should continue to proceed as per the provision and definitions of the said Precept.
27. Unless an alternative definition is required for the terms used in this Precept.
‘Business’ shall mean a sale or trade where money is exchanged
‘Business Registraion Certificate’ shall mean certificate issued under the Southern Province
Registration of Trading Places Precept for a name or descretion under which a sole
proprietorship or a partnership business is registered and carried out.
‘Corporation’ shall mean an institution created by an act of parliament or the Southern
Provincial Council and includes institutions created under the Companies Act, as well
‘Director’ and ‘Secretary’ shall mean a position that discharge the duties of a director or the
secretary but known by any other title.
‘Business institution’ shall mean a business establishment comprising one or more persons
brought together for  the purpose of making a profit. However, it excludes a company established
and created under the Companies Act, No. 1 of 2007.
‘Person’ or ‘Persons’ shall mean a natural person or persons
(person/persons above 18 years of age who have established business within the Southern
Province)
‘The Minister’ shall mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Trade in the Southern
Provincial Council.
28. In the event where  there is inconsistency between the  Sinhala, English and Tamil versions of
this Precept, the Sinhala version should prevail.
Unable to
prosecute the
registrar
Registrar and
other officers are
public servants
Maintaining
reports and
registers
Internal
arrangements
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
Prevalence of
Sinhala verson
when inconsistant
03- 214