

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 20
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"057- 2018 fmnrjdß ui 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'02'02                                                                                            
No. 2,057 - FRIdAy , FEBRUARy  02,  2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  23rd   February  2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th  Febuary, 2018.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
19 - B 81248-353 (2018/02)

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'02
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 02.02.2018
20
miscellaneous Lands notices
My No. : 4/10/30522.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: b$7$oSn$ys`.=$2009'
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe   LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It is hereby notified that for the Residential Purpose, Mrs. Wanni 
Arachchilage  Mangalika Piyaseeli  has  requested on lease a 
state land  containing in extent about 0.0408 Hec.  out of  extent 
Marked Lot  No. 582  as  depicted in the Plan  No. w' c' ms' fmd' 7 
and    situated in the  village of  Gampalawatta which  belongs to 
the  Grama Niladhari Division of  No. 76  R. B 01  coming  within 
the area of authority of Hingurakgoda  Divisional  Secretariat in the 
district of  Polonnaruwa. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
 
On the North by : Lot  Nos. 573, 574 & 575  ;
On the East by : Lot  Nos. 575 & 524 ;
On the  South by :  Lot No. 524 ;
On the West by :  Lot Nos. 583 & 573.   
03. the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the 
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : - 
 (a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years (from 15.06.1995 
onwards);
(b)    The Annual Rent  of the Lease.– 4% of the  undeveloped 
value  land as per valuation of the Chief  Valuer for the year 
1995 ;
  Penalty .- Treble  4% of the developed value of the land ;
 (c) the  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner as to 
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
(d) the lessee must not use this land for any purpose  other than 
for  the Residential purpose  ;
 (e) t he  lease  must  also be subject to the other special conditions 
stipulated and imposed by the divisional Secretary and   by 
other  Institutions;
 (f) the buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper 
state of repair ;
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure 
on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified 
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained, 
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
 (h)  No. sub - leasing can be  done  until the expiry  of a minimun 
period  of 05 years;
 (i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted 
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
 (j) House construction activities  must  be completed within  
the time frame specified in alienating  lands for  house  
construction purposes and the  failure to do  so will be deemed 
as a lapse of the long  term lease bond  and the land will have  
to be re - vested in the  government.  
 
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must 
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  
N. P. amarathuNga,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6,  "Mihikatha Medura",   Land Secretariat,
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
2 nd  February, 2018.
02-113 
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/46728.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: EP/28/LB/Les/Tri/
THA/06.     
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the purpose  of Commercial 
Dialog Axiata (PLC) Ltd,  has  requested on lease a  State land 
containing in extent about  20 Perches out of  extent marked  
Lot  No. 01 as depicted in the  Plan  No. 4463 situated in the  
village  of  Galmitiyawa with  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari 
division of   No Galmitiyawa North  coming  within  the area 
of authority of thampalagamuwa   divisional Secretariat in 
the  district of  trincomalee. 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'02
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 02.02.2018
21
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Land of  M. G. Rammenika and Lot  2  
hereof  ;
On the East by : Lot 2 hereof  and Balance portion of 
the  same Land ;
On the  South by :  Balance portion of the same  land  and 
land of  Nayana Kumari  ;
On the West by : Balance portion of the  same land  and 
Land  of  M. G. Rammenika. 
the land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved                    
conditions : - 
 (a)  Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( From 
01.11.2016 );
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the  market 
value of the  land  as per  valuation   of the Chief   
Valuer for the year 2016. This amount of the lease must 
be quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the 
amount  as  a result of the  revision will be not  less 
than  50% of the amount that just preceded.  
Premium .- Treble of the  annual amount of  the  lease   ; 
 (b)  this lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 (c)  the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than  the purpose of  Commercial Activities  ;
 (d) this lease  must also  be subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  and  imposed by the  divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  Committee/Board of Investment 
of Sri Lanka  and  by other  institutions;  
 (e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the   lease ;
 (f)  No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years    ;
 (g)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair ;
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which  this  notice is published  
in the  Gazette to  the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  
a. K. N. SewwaNdi amaraSeKara, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat, No. 1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
02nd  Feburary,  2018.
02-153
 Land Commissioner General : 4/10/54461.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner  No.: 
ksbfld$yï$b2$;sia$§n.     
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  
LAnD ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the Commercial  Purpose, 
Nambukara Tantrige Dayananda  has  requested on lease a  
state land containing in  extent about  0.8793 Hec. Out of 
extent marked Lot  10 as  depicted in the tracing  No. H/LC/
TSS/2017/31 and  situated in the  village of  Andaragasyaya   
which  belongs to the  Grama  Niladhari division of 
Andaragasyaya  coming withing the  area of  authority of  
tissamaharamaya  divisional Secretariat in the   district of  
Hambanthota. 
02. Given below are the  boundaries of the  land  requested.
 
On the North by : Provincial Council Road ;
On the East by : Lot No. 69  ;
On the  South by :  Coast Lines ;
On the West by : Lot No. 11.  
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out 
the land  subject   to  other   Government  approved   conditions 
and the  following  conditions : -  

<!-- page 4 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'02
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 02.02.2018
22
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
 (a)  Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years  (From 
22.12.2017  onwards);
  The Annual  amount  of the Lease.–  In the instances 
where the  assessed value  of the  land  in the  year  
2017  is  less than five    million Rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000)  
2% of the market value of  the  land in  the  said  
year,  as per the valuation of the chief  valuer. In the 
Instances where the  assessed value  of the   land  in 
the  effective year  of  the  lease in the more than    five 
million  Rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000),  4% of  the market 
value of the land  in the  said year as a  per  valuation 
of the   chief  valuer. this  amount  of the  lease must  
be   revised in the   every  five  years and the  revision 
shall add   20%  to the  amount  that  just  preceded. 
  Premium .-  Not levied
 (b) This lessees must, within   one (01)  year   the  date  of 
commencement of the lease, develop  the said  land,   
in susch a manner as to  captivate the mind  of the 
Divisional Secretary;
 
 (c) the lessees must not use  this land  for any purpose 
other than  a Commercial  Purpose;
 (d) this lease  shall also  be  subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  imposed by the  divisional 
Secretary/Scoping committee/Board of Investment of 
Sri Lanka  and by  and  other  institutions;  
 (e)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair;
 (f)  Once the  land  is given on lease and  in the  event of  
failure on the part  of the  lessees to  substantiate within 
the    specified  time  frame the purpose for  which  tha  
land  was  obtained action will be  taken to terminate  
the  lease ; 
 (g) No sub leasing  can  be done  until the expiry of a  
minimum period  of 05 years;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease  must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land will be leased 
out as requested. 
  
K. g. a. K. PalugaSwewa, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura",  Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
02nd February,  2018.
02-154 