

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2240$33 - 2021 wf.daia;= ui 12 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2021'08'12
No. 2240/33 -  THURSDAY ,  AUGUST  12,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
1A- PG 5527 - 1520 (08/2021) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
L.D.B. 1/2012
NATIONAL  ACQUACULTURE  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY  OF  SRI  LANKA
ACT, No. 53 OF 1998
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Fisheries under Section 37 read with Section 11 of the National Aquaculture 
Development Authority Act, No. 53 of 1998.
 Minister of Fisheries.
Colombo,
1st July, 2021.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as Standards for live ﬁ sh exporters regulations 2021.
2. The provisions of these regulations except the provisions of-
 (a) Part III, shall apply to every freshwater ornamental ﬁ sh exporter;
 (b) Part II, shall apply to every marine ornamental ﬁ sh exporter.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.08.2021
2A
3. An ofﬁ cer authorized by the Director-General of National Aquaculture Development Authority shall examine 
and monitor every facility for compliance of the provision of these regulations.
PART I
GENERAL
4. Every facility shall have ease of access in order to provide convenient and rapid transportation of ornamental 
ﬁ sh.
5. Every facility shall be located in an environment, free of any contamination, which could affect the quality of 
ﬁ sh.
6. Every facility shall maintain suf ﬁ cient quantity of good quality water supply, uninterrupted power supply, and 
other amenities.
7. (1) Every facility shall take measures for ef ﬂ uent disposal such as sufﬁ cient number of sedimentation tanks, 
and treatment tanks and carry out waste disposal in a manner not adverse to the environment. Every 
facility shall obtain recommendations from the Central Environmental Authority or the relevant Provincial 
Environmental Authority for efﬁ cient efﬂ uent disposal and shall comply with such recommendations.
 (2) Every facility shall in order to achieve ef ﬁ cient efﬂ uent disposal -
 (a) apply disinfectants to the water to be disposed prior to directing to a sedimentation tank. Such 
water shall not be disposed to natural water ways;
 (b) dispose dead ﬁ sh, to a concrete pit with a concrete lid or burn such dead ﬁ sh in a covered area .
8. Every facility shall have regular monitoring of cleaning, sweeping and other measures to ensure on-farm and 
off-farm environmental quality.
9. Every facility Shall keep all chemicals, veterinary drugs including probiotics clearly labelled and safely stored 
and shall not have any unauthorized drug or chemical within the facility.
10. Every facility shall take measures for the safety of personnel, equipment and ﬁ sh.
11. Every facility shall take measures for the maintenance of good health conditions of ﬁ sh, including -
 (a) cleaning of tanks, siphoning and disinfecting programmes;
 (b) ﬁ sh feeding programmes;
 (c) stocking and harvesting programmes;
 (d) prophylactic treatment programmes;
 (e) availability of suf ﬁ cient number of siphoning tubes, harvesting nets, hand nets, dead ﬁ sh collecting nets, 
basins and buckets etc.
 (f) amenities for the safe disposal of dead and diseased ﬁ sh.
12. Every facility shall take every measure to ensure responsible usage of veterinary medicines, such as non use of 
antibiotics in quarantine tanks.
13. Every facility shall have training and awareness programmes for workers on good aquatic animal health and 
welfare management practices by organizing workshops, training programs or discussions.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.08.2021
3A
14. Every facility shall take measures to prevent disease carriers entering the premises including restriction of 
visitors.
15. No facility shall have any ﬁ sh or aquatic plant, which is protected or prohibited by any written law to have in 
possession by any person.
16. Every facility shall maintain a laboratory with basic equipment such as basic water quality parameters and 
water quality testing kits and a microscope to examine the health of ﬁ sh and engage the services of a technician with training 
in diagnosing ﬁ sh disease and other laboratory activities.
17. Every facility shall if any disease is reported or diagnosed, inform of the same to the National Aquaculture 
Development Authority within a period of seven days and maintain records of all diseases diagnosed in the facility for future 
reference.
18. Every facility shall obtain feedback reports from foreign buyers for each shipment and implement remedial 
measures to solve reported problems and shall keep detailed records for each shipment for future reference.
19. Every facility shall maintain records in relation to ﬁ sh stock including the following:-
 (a) the date of production details;
 (b) date of ﬁ sh stock entering the farm;
 (c) the names of owners of hatchery;
 (d) details of the farms or marine ﬁ sh suppliers from which the ﬁ sh was obtained;
 (e) details of dispatching of ﬁ sh stock;
 (f) the names of buyers of ﬁ sh;
 (g) reports of any diseases; and
 (h) reports relating to any testing and quarantining.
20. Every facility shall take the following measures for receiving and sorting of ﬁ sh section:-
 (a) maintain proper access to the area by a vehicle for easy dispatch of ﬁ sh consignments;
 (b) minimize stressful conditions that can affect the quality of ﬁ sh, with special focus on matters such as 
ﬁ sh bag handling, temperature of the area, water quality of arriving ﬁ sh bags, sorting procedure, sorting 
utensils, aeration for sorting basins;
 (c) capacity to dry out the utensils after each arrival consisting of cemented or tiled ﬂ oors, good drainage 
system, concrete or stainless steel tables for sorting and grading of ﬁ sh;
 (d) cleaning sorting tables, basins, nets, aeration tubes, ﬂ oor and drains after each arrival using freshwater of 
area;
 (e) disinfection of area once a week by using a suitable disinfectant such as bleaching powder;
 (f) capability of visual examination of each ﬁ sh brought to the facility to evaluate the quality and returning of 
poor quality ﬁ sh such as ﬁ sh with damaged ﬁ n; or abrasions on the body to the suppliers of such ﬁ sh;
 (g) introduction of ﬁ sh to sorting basins by draining out the packing water inside the bags using a hand net. 
Freshwater dip treatment (1 -2 minute) shall be given to the ﬁ sh at this stage;
 (h) non usage of basins, buckets, hand nets and other utensils that are being used for sorting the ﬁ sh, for other 
activities;
 (i) maintenance of the area in clean, tidy and hygienically sound manner.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.08.2021
4A
Part II
STANDARDS FOR FRESHWATER ORNAMENTAL FISH EXPORTERS
21. (1) Every facility shall maintain the following measures in relation to the quarantine or holding area:
 (a) availability of suf ﬁ cient number of quarantine or holding tanks depending on the volume of 
exporting ﬁ sh, to quarantine the ﬁ sh prior to export;
 (b) arrangement of quarantine or holding tanks in a separate area within the export facility;
 (c) preparation of quarantine or holding tanks according to the volume of ﬁ sh;
 (d) disinfection of all quarantine or holding tanks including surrounding area after each cycle or once 
in two weeks, preferably by sun drying;
 (2) Every facility shall adhere to following quarantine time period of ﬁ sh -
Origin of the ﬁ sh Quarantine period
1 Fish grown in exporter’s facilities No need to quarantine
2 Fish obtained from own out- growers (exporter should have a mechanism 
for close supervision of out-grower activities)
Three days
3 Fish obtained from registered direct suppliers (exporter should have a 
mechanism for close supervision of direct supplier’s activities)
Three days
4 Fish obtained from unknown origins Minimum seven days
5 Fish collected from natural water bodies Two weeks
6 Fish imported for re-export Seven days
22. Every facility in relation to the conditioning tanks shall:
 (a) keep a suf ﬁ cient number of conditioning tanks taking into consideration the volume of exporting ﬁ sh in 
the facility, to condition such ﬁ sh prior to export;
 (b) arrange conditioning tanks in a separate place, adjacent to packing area;
 (c) condition ﬁ sh for a minimum period of twenty four hours prior to export;
 (d) prevent cross contamination by arranging ﬁ sh separately;
 (e) maintain appropriate stocking densities in conditioning tanks depending on the variety and size of ﬁ sh;
 (f) maintain the ability to observe ﬁ sh without difﬁ culty;
 (g) have the ability to harvest ﬁ sh without difﬁ culty;
 (h) disinfect tanks and surrounding area after each shipment;
 (i) have clean ﬁ ltered water ﬂ owing through a ﬁ lter with optimum water for conditioning tanks;
 (j) not increase air temperature in the conditioning area beyond 30°C;
 (k) not use hazardous chemicals or unapproved drugs in conditioning tanks.
23. Every facility in relation to packing area shall -
 (a)  maintain packing materials, equipment, chemicals, and documents properly in a clean and orderly manner 
to manage the environment in the packing area ;
 (b) use appropriately treated water for packing; and
 (c) take measures to provide oxygen required to packing.
24. No facility shall release any ﬁ sh to natural water bodies.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'08'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.08.2021
5A
Part III
STANDARDS F OR M ARINE O RNAMENTAL F ISH E XPORTERS
25. Every facility engaged in export of marine ﬁ sh, situated close to the sea shall dispose the water to the sea
through a sea water soaking pit. Where such facility is not situated close to the sea, water shall be disinfected, kept in an 
underground concrete pit, prior to transporting to the sea. Such disposal shall be done according to the recommendations of 
the Central Environmental Authority or the relevant Provincial Environment Authority.
26. Every facility shall have the following in relation to the quarantine or holding area:
(a)  sufﬁ cient number of quarantine or holding tanks depending on the volume of exporting ﬁ sh to quarantine
the ﬁ sh prior to export;
(b) a recirculation water system in quarantine or holding tanks and such recirculation water shall pass through
mechanical and biological ﬁ lters, protein skimmer and Ultra Violet ﬁ lter for puriﬁ cation;
(c) maintenance of two separate recirculation systems with quarantine puri ﬁ cation or holding tanks for ﬁ sh
and shrimps and other invertebrates;
(d) maintenance of different types of ﬁ sh, proper stocking density in tanks, quarantine of aggressive ﬁ sh
separately;
(e) disinfection of all quarantine or holding tanks including surrounding area by using freshwater and suitable
chemical such as chlorine or detergent once in six months; However, biological ﬁ lter shall not be disturbed
or stopped during this process;
(f) quarantine of ﬁ sh for a minimum period of seven days;
27. Every facility shall maintain proper packing materials, equipment, chemicals, documents and facility of oxygen
in the packing area.
28. Every facility shall use appropriately treated water for packing.
29. Each ﬁ sh shall be individually checked before packing for external damages, abrasions, abnormal behavior, to
assure the quality of the ﬁ sh.
30. In these regulations “facility” means the premises where the live ﬁ sh is kept for the purpose of export.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
08-425