

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1819$2 - 2013 cQ,s ui 15 jeks i÷od - 2013'07'15
No. 1819/2  - MONDAY ,  JULY 15,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT  No.  14  OF  2008
Order under Sub-Section (4) of Section 3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Sub-section (4) of Section 3 of the Strategic Development Projects Act No. 14 of 2008
as amended, I, Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, Minister of Investment Promotions, being the Minister in Charge of the
subjects of Investment Promotions do by this Order declare that :-
1. The notification containing the relevant information of a Project to establish a branch campus of University of
Central Lancashire at Mirigama Export Processing Zone in the Western Province, which was identified as a
Strategic Development Project for the purpose of aforesaid Act, was published in Gazette Extraordinary  No.
1796/8 dated 06th February 2013 ;
2. The Project Company shall ensure that the management of the proposed Branch Campus adheres to the provisions
of the Universities Act No. 16 of 1978 in conducting its activities if and to the extent such provisions are
applicable to its activities and such project is in the National Interest and is of Economic and Social benefit to the
Country.
3. The approval of Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained in terms of Sub-section (3) of Section 3 to declare the
project to establish a branch Campus of University of Central Lancashire at Mirigama Export Processing Zone in
the Western Province as a Strategic Development Project ;
4. The above Strategic Development Project shall be called and known as a "Project to establish a branch Campus of
University of Central Lancashire at Mirigama Export Processing Zone in the Western Province and that the
Project Company is knwon as UCLAN Lanka (Private ) Limited ;
5. The aforesaid Project shall commence its Commercial Operations within a period of Ten (10) years in Four (04)
phases from the date of the Project Agreement signed with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka on 13th December
2012 ; and
6. The exemption from the enactments specified in the schedule to this order shall apply to the Project Company and
shall be operative for the duration specified in this Schedule. The date on which the exemptions shall become
operative shall be the 13th Decmeber 2012.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2013
2A
SCHEDULE
(a) Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006
(i) The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax on the
Project Company on the profits and income from Project shall not apply for a period of Fifteen (15) years
("Tax Exemption Period"). The tax on dividends distributed to shareholders out of profits shall be exempted
from income tax during the said Tax Exemption Period and one year thereafter ;
The said exemption period to commence from the first year in which the Project Company makes taxable
profit or Five (05) years after commencement of Commercial Operations, whichever is earlier.
After the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period the profits and income of the Project Company
shall be charged at the rate of the Twenty-five per Centum (25%) of the applicable rate for a period of Ten (10)
years immediatly succeeding the last date of the Tax Exemption Period.
(ii) The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of Pay As You
Earn Tax (PAYE) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number of
20 employees at any point of time. This concession shall be applicable for a period of Five (05) years from the
date of commencement of Commercial Operations.
(iii) The recipient shall be fully exempted from the charge of income tax under any provision of the Inland
Revenue Act and the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of  Withholding Tax on the
following :
(a) interest on foreign loans taken for capital expenditure ;
(b) technical fees to consultants ;
(c) management fees up to 3% on gross revenue ;
(d) royalty fees up to 1.5% on gross revenue ;
(e) marketing fees up to 1.5% on gross revenue.
(b) The Value Added Tax Act (V AT) No. 14 of 2002
The importation of project related goods and services and the local purchases of Project related goods and
services during the Project implementation period shall be fully exempted from charge and payment of Value
Added Tax (V AT) under the Value Added Tax (V AT) Act No. 14 of 2002.  The V AT exemption shall be applicable not
only for direct supplies to the Project Company/Project but also for supplies made by Sub-contractor approved by
the Project Company to a contractor for supplies to the Project Company/Project as described and permitted in the
V AT Act.
(c) The Ports and Airports Development Levy Act No. 18 of 2011
The payment and charge of Port and Airport Development Levy (PAL) shall be fully exempted on all items imported
for implementing the Project (whether directly imported by the Company or sourced through contractors approved
by the Project Company) during the Project implementation period.
(d) Finance Act No. 5 of 2005
The Project Company or a sub-contractor approved by the Project Company shall be fully exempted from the
payment of Construction Industry Guarantee Levy Act No. 05 of 2005 during the project implementation period.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2013
3A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
SCHEDULE (Contd.)
(e) Economic Service Charge Act No. 13 of  2006
The Project company shall be exempted from the payment of Economic Service Charge Act No. 13 of 2006 up to the
end of the Tax-Holiday Period.
(f) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
All imports/local purchases of Project related items and materials required for the Project, whether directly imported
by the Project Company or sourced through contractors, shall be exempted from the payment of customs duty,
provided that, the goods are consigned in the name of the Project Company and are imported for the purpose of the
implementation of the Project.
L
AKSHMAN YAPA ABEYWARDENA, MP
Minister of Investment Promotions.
Colombo.
11th July, 2013.
08 - 15