

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 10.10.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2144$47 - 2019 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 10 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'10'10
No. 2144/47 - THURSDAY,  OCTOBER  10, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
THE   AIR  NA VIGATION   REGULATION   OF  1955
Notice under Regulation 126
OPENING OF   DOMESTIC   AIRPORTS   FOR   OPERATION   OF   REGIONAL   COMMERCIAL   FLIGHT
MEMBERS  of the public are hereby notified that in pursuance of the decision taken by the Government for opening of
domestic airports for operation of regional commercial flights, the following airports are opened for operation of regional
commercial flights subject to terms and conditions stated below :
Location of the Airport
Name of the airport Grama Divisional District Province
Niladhari Division Secretariat
Batticaloa Airport Puthunagar Manmunai Batticaloa Eastern Province
Location Indicator : VCCB North
Airport Identifier : BTC
Jaffna Airport Miladdy North V alikamam Jaffna Northern Province
Location Indicator : VCCJ Miladdy South North
Kurumbasiddy
Airport Identifier : JAF Palaly South
Palaly West
Ratmalana Airport Kandawala Rathmalana Colombo W estern Province
Location Indicator : VCCC
Airport Identifier : RML
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  G   31229— 67 (10/2019)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'10
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 10.10.2019
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
10 -902
Airport and Aviation Services (Sri Lanka) Ltd., has been appointed as the Service Provider for provisions of
aeronautical services specified under paragraph (a), (c), (b), (e), (f), (g), (h), (j), (k) and (I) of Section 31 of the Civil
Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010 at those airports.
Complete information relation to physical characteristics of the abovementioned airports and the facilities, and
services available at those airports including the operational hours of the airports has been provided in the Sri Lanka
Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP), which is published in the official website of the Civil Aviation Authority of
Sri Lanka (www.caa.lk).
Aircraft arriving in Sri Lanka or departing to overseas destinations may land firstly at or depart lastly from the
above-mentioned Airports and such aircraft may disembark and embark, passengers, cargo and mail as applicable on such
flights at those airport.
Every aircraft operating into and out of the abovementioned airports shall conform to the applicable national
laws, regulations, rules and implementing standards relating to border controls and the established operating procedures
relating to entry and departure of aircraft, which are published in the AIP.
Every departing and arriving passenger, in and out of the abovementioned airports shall conform to the applicable
national laws, regulations, rules and implementing standards and also the established operating procedures relating to
entry and departure of persons and baggage and they may be subject to the applicable screening processes that will be
performed by the respective government authorities in charge of customs, immigration and emigration, aviation security,
public health, plant and animal quarantine and narcotics control etc.
All inbound or outbound cargo includng mail and other articles of the abovementioned airports shall be in
conformity with the applicable national laws, regulations, rules and implementing standards, and also the established
operating procedures relating to entry and departure of cargo, mail and other articles which are published in Sri Lanka
Aeronautical Information Publication and such cargo, mail and other articles may be subject to the applicable screening
processes that will be performed by the respective government authorities in charge of customs, aviation security, public
health, plant and animal quarantine and narcotics control etc.
No person inclusive of any item carried by that person or vehicle is permitted enter or remain in any area which
is designated as Security Restricted Area of the aforementioned airports unless such person or vehicle has been issued
with a valid airpot access permit by the Airport Operator and the access permit is displayed conspicuously for inspection.
The foregoing condition is not applicable to a passenger holding valid travel documents and a current boarding pass for an
inbound flight terminating at or outbound flight originating from those airports, if the passengers complies with the
security screening procedures.
Operation of unmanned aerial vehicles including drones within and in  the vicinity of the airport premises is
completely prohibited
H. M. C. N
IMALSIRI,
Director General of Civil Aviation.