

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'02'27
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 27.02.2024
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2373$25 – 2024 fmnrjdß ui 27 jeks wÕyrejdod – 2024'02'27
No. 2373/25 – TUESDAY, FEBRUARY   27, 2024
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – PG6655– 104 (02/2024)
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF THE CENTRAL  PROVINCE
Bඒ - Lൺඐඌ
BY  virtue of the powers vested in me under Sub section (1) of  Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987, 
read along with Sub section (1) (a) of Section 2 of the Provinc ial Councils Act No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential Provisions) 
I, Lalith U. Gamage Attorney- at- Law, Governor of Central Province, hereby announce that, the Drinking Water Safety By- 
Laws of the Na- ula Pradeshiya Sabha, as power vested in to the Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub section (1) of Section 122 of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 12 of 1987, read along with Sections 126(ix) and (xiii), do hereby announce that, the Drinking 
Water Safety By- Laws of the Na - ula Pradeshiya Sabha, shall be in force within the jurisdiction of the Na- ula Pradeshiya 
Sabha from the date of publication of this Gazette Notiﬁ cation.
      
 Lൺඅංඍඁ U. Gൺආൺ඀ൾ,
 (Attorney - at- Law)
 Governor,  Central Province.
At the Governor's Oﬃ  ce,
Palace Square,
Kandy.
30th January, 2024.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'02'27
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 27.02.2024
 2A
DRINKING WATER AND WATER CATCHMENT SAFETY BY - LAWS OF 
NA- ULA PRADESHIYA SABHA
01. These By Laws are enacted in order to take measures for the  safety of drinking water and matters consequential there 
to including Regularization and Supervision of related water sources taking actions related to the conservation of water 
sources related to Water Projects maintained within the authority areas of Na- ula Pradeshiya Sabha to protect the safety 
of drinking water in private and public use in order to secure the public health safety of the people living within the 
authority areas of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. The Na- ula Pradeshiya Sabha is vested with powers to make these By Laws under sub Section 122(1) of the Predeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 read along with sub Sections 126(ix) and 126 (xiii) of the said Act. 
03. These By Laws may be cited as the Drinking Water and Water Catchment Safety By Laws of the Na - ula Pradeshiya 
Sabha
04. The Na- ula Pradeshiya Sabha Shall maintain the following information in relation to every source of water  that supplies 
drinking water for the consumption of the public within the authority areas of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
 i. Name of Water Source
 ii. Grama Niladhari Division
 iii. Coordinating Number of the Location
 iv. Ownership of land where water source is located 
 v. Access (Should be sketched roughly as possible)
 vi. Nature of use (private/ public)
05. When the water source  is an underground water source, no p erson shall take any of the following actions within a 
 radius of 15 meters from it. 
 i. Entering, Corralling, tethering or keeping animals in a man ner that would make their entry or marking entrance 
for them.
 ii. Disposing, burying or depositing any waste.
 iii. Setting ﬁ  re in the open space or taking any action that damages to the water source.
 iv.  Performmining excavations.
 v. Taking any action to divert waste water through any drain o r allowing the constructed drains to be maintained in 
a defective condition.
 vi. Let surface water from any distance to ﬂ  ow directly to the water source.
 vii. When the source of water is a shallow well, allownig  sur face water to seep into well from a distance of less than 
4.5 meter  from the edge of the well.
 viii. Where the source of water is a shallow well, maintaining  water seepage into the well at a depth of less than 3 meters 
from the ground level.
 ix. When the source of water is a shallow well,  the well cove rs of concrete when made with cement and reinforced 
iron for the protection of the well, leaving the cement or the rust formed around the iron used, that to mix with the 
water.
 x. When the source of water is a shallow- well, failing to kee p the well clean and empty the well water within the 
time limits set by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha and the  Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health or any Oﬃ  cer duly 
authorized by them.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'02'27
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 27.02.2024
 3A
06. In case of a natural surface water source, no person shall take any of the following actions within the limit of 30 meters 
on both sides and above 10 meters below from the inlet.
 i. Entering, corralling, tethering or maintaining animals in a  manner that would permit their entry.
 ii. Washing vehicles or any other machinery.
 iii. Use for bathing
 iv. Disposing, burying or depositing any waste.
 v. Setting ﬁ  re in the open space or taking any action that make damages to the water source.
 vi. Perform mining excavations.
 vii. Taking any action that would enable diverting sewage thro ugh any drain.
 viii. Use for any cultivation purpose other than aﬀ  orestation.
 ix. The Use of a bucket or any other instrument by any person for taking out water, so that any waste may be mixed 
with the source of water.
07. Except in case of a water supply project run by the Nationa l  Water Supply and Drainage Board and in case of using a 
water source for domestic purpose, every person or organization running a drinking water supply project, using a water 
source shall obtain a license in accordance with the second Sch edule under these By Laws from the Chairman of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
08. Every person applying for a license under these By Laws sha ll apply for the same through an application prepared in 
accordance with the form set out in the ﬁ rst Schedule of these By Laws.
09. No license shall be issued by the Chairman unless every per son applying for a license under these By Laws has fulﬁ lled  
the Conditions of these By Laws.
10. 1. Water distribution in the instance where water is distri buted for consumption using only pipelined water supply 
system,
  1) It should be veriﬁ  ed that the water distributed is subject to the standards issu ed by the Sri Lanka Standards 
Institute.
  2) In case of the  applicant is a community based organizatio n, it must be registerd under Pradeshiya Sabha or 
Community Water Department
  3) The plan including all components related to the Water Sch eme should be Submitted.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'02'27
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 27.02.2024
 4A
  
  4) All components and constructions used for the water scheme  must comply with the criteria of the National 
Water Supply and Drainage Board.
  5) When the main pipeline system used for the water scheme is  deployed on a private property, a conﬁ rmation 
must be submitted by the respective owner and when deployed on a property belonging to another authority, a  
conﬁ rmation must be submitted by the relevant authority.
  6) It should be ensured that the information requested under the application form regarding the employees expected 
to be  employed under the water project and the relevant inform ation whenever the employees change is 
submitted.
10.2 Where water is collected and distributed for commercial pu rposes using a bowser or a water container or any other
 tool,
 1) It is need to be veriﬁ  ed that the water distributed is subject to the standards issu ed by the Sri Lanka Standards 
Institute.
 2) A Conﬁ  rmation need to be submitted that the water is obtained under a water source maintained in accordance 
with these By Laws.
 3) A Certiﬁ  cate obtained from the said Board that the requirments have been fulﬁ led according to the orders issued 
under the Water Resource Board Act No. 24 of 1964, regarding the source of water to be used and the water to 
be distributed need to be submitted.
 4) The water provided for use need to be treated under any met hod recommended by the water Resource Board.
 5) If any vehicle, container or any other tool is used to dist ribute water, information about the use needed to be 
submitted.
11. In the event that a request is made for a license under the se By Laws, it is the duty of the Chairman to grant the desired 
license within one month receiving the application or if it cannot be granted, to inform the applicant in writing of the 
reasons for the same.
12. Fees for a license under these By Laws shall be valid after  being adopted by the Na- ula Pradeshiya Sabha and published 
in the Gazette, Subject to the Provisions of  the Basic Laws.
13. Every person licensed under these By Laws shall act in acco rdance with the following conditions:
 i. The distributed water shall comply with the standards issue d by the Sri Lanka standards Institute.
 ii. All components used for the water supply scheme must compl y with the criteria of the  National Water Supply and 
Drainage Board.
 iii. Actions must be taken to conﬁ  rm that the water contained from the water source conﬁ rmed at the time of applying  
for the license will be used for the activities related to the license.
 iv. Containers and the tools used for water distribution must be manufactured in accordance with the standards issued 
by the Sri Lanka Bureau of Standards.
 v. The Source of water used and the water distributed must be maintaned in accorance with the orders issued under 
the Water Resources Board Act No. 24 of 1964.

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'02'27
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 27.02.2024
 5A
 vi. Every worker employed shall not be a  person suﬀ  ering from a skin disease or an infectious disease or person who 
has been in contact with such a person.
 vii. Sanitary and clean clothing shall be worn at all times of  employment and gloves shall be worn as prescribed.
 viii. In the event that orders are in force in accordance with  the Disease Prevention and Quarantine Ordinance within the 
authority areas, the services shall be maintained in accordance with the conditions speciﬁ ed under those orders.
 ix. Every employe who will be employed in connection with the water project must be the person whose name is 
included in the information submitted at the time of application for the license or who is included in the information 
when submitting the information to the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, if employed at any time thereafter.
 x. The workers employed under the water project should be cert iﬁ ed by a certiﬁ cate conﬁ rming that they are ﬁ t for 
work once in every six months or within the time limits recommended by the Medical Oﬃ  cer of Health.
14. Any water source within the authority areas is used under a license  referred to in these By Laws, no other person except 
the licensee shall make use of the said water source or maintain improper water connection with it.
15. It is legal for the Chairman or any oﬃ  cer of the Pradeshiya Sabha speciﬁ cally authorized by the Chairman, at such time 
as may be deemed ﬁ t and reasonable to enter the premises where the source of water is located, take samples or request 
any other information deemed necessary for the purposes of these By Laws and in case of distribution of drinking water, 
carrying out necessary inspections regarding the water distributed or the containers and tools used for it and requesting 
information deemed neccessary for that purpose in order to check whether the conditions mentioned in these By Laws 
are being maintained.
16. A license issued under these By Laws shall expire on the 31 st day December of the year of issue, unless speciﬁ  cally 
revoked by the Chairman.
17. In any case where any source of drinking water is being used or distributed contrary to the terms mentioned in these By 
Laws the Chairman shall give a written notice to the licensee  giving a reasonable time so given should not exceed 14 days.
18. In the event that any licensee fails to comply with these By Laws within the time limit provided under the above section, 
the Chairman shall cancel the license issued under these By Laws and notify the licensee in writing.
19. Nonetheless  anything mentioned under the above clauses of these By Laws, when a license is applied  for the ﬁ rst time 
in respect of any water project related to a license under these By Laws and in the event that a license is applied for again 
with chages in relation to a water project related to a license under these By Laws, the Chairman shall not issue not such 
license unless it has been recommended by a committe appointed by the chairman to make such  recommendations.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'02'27
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 27.02.2024
 6A
20. For the purpose of Section 19 of these By Laws and to make  recommendations to the Council to ensure the safety of 
drinking water in relation to water projects operating within t he authority areas, there shall be a committee consisting 
of the following.
 i. Chairman
 ii. Secretary
 iii. Technical Oﬃ   cer
 iv. Environment Oﬃ   cer
 v. Medical Oﬃ   cer of Health or an oﬃ  cer Nominated by him.
 However, the above mentioned Provisions should not be a hindra nce to call any another oﬃ  cer nominated by the Chairman 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha to assist the Committee in order to achieve the objectives of the Committee as per the need of 
the service.
21. Subject to a license referred to in  these by Laws, it is an oﬀ ence to act in contravention of Section 5, when using a water 
source without a permit or when operating a drinking water project and after being convicted by a Magistrate's Court for 
the said oﬀ ence, such person shall be liable to the  punishment mentioned  under Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act No. 15 of 1987.
22. if a perosn, institution or an organization running any wat er project requests any time limit for complying with the 
conditions mentioned in these By Laws in respect of a drinking water project subject to a license under these By Laws 
which are in opertaion within the authority areas at the eﬀ ective date of these By Laws, it is legal for the Chairman to 
grant a grace period, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Committee mentioned in the 20th By Laws 
above. However, the grace period provided under this section shall not exceed the period of one year from the eﬀ ective 
date of these By Laws.
23. Unless, otherwise required by the terms of these By Laws, i n these By Laws;
 “ Pradeshiya Sabha” means the Na- ula Pradeshiya Sabha,
 “ Chairman” means the Chairman appointed for the Na- ula Prade shiya Sabha, in accordance with the Local Government 
Elections Act or a person appointed in accoradance with the wri tten law to perform the duties and functions of the 
Chairman in case the Chairman's oﬃ  ce is not in operation.
 “ Waste ” has the same meaning as given to waste in the Nation al Environment Act No. 47 of 1980 as amended from 
time to time.
 “ Authorized Oﬃ   er” means an oﬃ  cer authoriszed in writing by the Chairman either generally s pecially to perform a 
special function.
 “ A Water Source” means a natural or artiﬁ  cial accumulation of water that leads to the use of Surface wa ter or group 
water for drinking water needs or a place that has the potential for public drinking water use. 

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'02'27
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 27.02.2024
 7A
NA- ULA PRADESHIYA SABHA
Schedule - 01
Application Form For License to Use Water Sources for Obtaining Drinking Water
01. Name of the Applicant :
02. Address:
03. If the applicant is running a business, registration number / if the Applicant is a society the registration number of  
 the relevant society:
04. The following information about the location of the water s ource:
 i. Name of the Water Source:
 ii. Location (should be outlined):
 iii. Nature of the Water Source:
 iv. Grama Niladhari Division:
 v. Coordinating Number of Location:
 vi. Ownership of land Where water source is located:
 vii. Access (Should be outlined as possible)
 viii. Nature of Use (Private/ Public):
05. Information about the workers employed for the Water Projec t:
  
Index No. Name Address N.I.C.Number
 
06. Information related to the vehicles used for the business.
Index No. Vehicle No. Type of Vehicle

<!-- page 8 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'02'27
Pൺඋඍ IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 27.02.2024
 8A
The Chairman should be informed whenever the information in numbers 05 and 06 above changes.
07. Number of beneﬁ  ciaries identiﬁ ed under the proposed water project:
08. Expected water capacity to be used daily
 The following attachment should be submitted along with the co mpleted application form:
 i. A copy of the constitution and a copy of the Society's Regi stration Certiﬁ cate if a society.
 ii. A rough plan certiﬁ  ed by an accepted Technical Oﬃ  cer showing how the components related to the water 
project have been utilized.
 iii. The Plan includes all the components related to the Water  Scheme.
 iv. Documents in which the permission has been given by the re levant authority in case of deployment of 
the main pipeline system used for the Water scheme on a private property and in case of deployment on a 
property beloning to another authority, by the relevant authority.
Date:            Signature of Applicant
(A copy of the document containing the relevant guidelines will be provided with his application)
Schedule - 02
 
A Permit is issued for running a drinking water project using a water source within the authority areas of the 
Na- ula Pradeshiya Sabha
1. Licensee's Full Name:
2. Address :
3. N.I.C. Number:
4. Authority Sources of Water:
5. Period of Time allowed:
  Chairman
                Na - ula Pradeshiya Sabha
Date:
EOG 02- 0193
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.