

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
471
471
wxl 1"801 - 2013 ud¾;= 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'03'08
No. 1,801 – FRIDAY , MARCH 08, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 474
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 481
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 28th March, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th
March, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
472
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
473
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
474
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Apr il, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
15th February, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Naththandiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional
of Pitigal Koralaya South Division and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Naththandiya Puttalam
Division
03–384
–––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
475
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Apr il, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
11th February, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Alawwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional
Kandyan) of Dambadeni Hathpattuwa Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Kurunegala
Dambadeni Udukaha East Division
Kurunegala Mallawapitiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional
Kandyan) of Weudawilli Hathpattuwa Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Kurunegala
Thiragandahaya East Division
Kurunegala Kuliyapitiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional
 (West) Kandyan) of Katugampola Hathpattuwa Registrar General, District Secretariat,
(Kuliyapitiya Town) Division Kurunegala
03–314
–––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
NUWARA-ELIYA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
476
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Apr il, 2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
11th February, 2013.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Kotmale Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Kotmale Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Thispane Division Nuwara Eliya
03–313
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
V A VUNIYA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Apr il, 2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
12th February, 2013

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
477
THE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Vavuniya Vavuniya Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Vavuniya Town Division General, District Secretariat,
(Tamil Medium) Vavuniya
03–315
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Mulsim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Apr il, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
15th February, 2013.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Ipalogama Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Kalagam Palatha Division of General, District Secretariat,
Kallanchiya Area Anuradhapura
03–385

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
478
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
GALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Apr il, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
11th February, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Galle Galle Fourgravets Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Hirimbura Area in Galle District General, District Secretariat,
Division Galle
03–316
––––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Promotion of Class 3 Officers Vacancies in Grade 2-II of
the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service
THE Secretary, Ministry of Education will accept applications to
fill vacancies in Grade 2-II of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service
at the Colleges of Education, Teachers' Colleges and Teachers' Centers
under the Ministry of Education.
2.0 Applications prepared according to the model format
appearing at the end of this notice should be sent by registered post
to reach the "Secretary, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya,
Battaramulla" on or before 02.04.2013. The phrase "Promotion to
vacancies in Grade 2-II of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service"
should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope in
which the application is enclosed. All applicants should forward
their applications through the Head of their respective institutions.
Applications received after the due date will be rejected.
3.0 Conditions of Employment in the Serivce :
3.1 Section 12.1 and Sections 12.6 to 12.12 of Chapter II of
the Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist
Repbuilc of Sri Lanka apply.
3.2 Should reside within the limits of the Colleges of Education
where residential facilities are provided.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
479
3.3 Applicants of either sex selected to the posts are bound to
serve in any College of Education, Teachers' College or
Teachers' Center according to the exigencies of service.
Attention is drawn to the general conditions applicable to
appointments to posts in the Public Service appearing in
Part I of this Gazette.
4.0 General Qualifications :
4.1 In terms of Section 17 of the Minute of the Sri Lanka
Teacher Educators' Service, if the degree is not in the English
medium, in order to qualify for promotions it would be
necessary to obtain a credit pass in English Language/
English Literature at the G . C. E. (O/L) or at an equivalent
examination or a higher qualification. The applications of
candidates who do not satisfy the above requirements will
be rejected.
4.2 Passing the Efficiency Bar as mentioned in the Service
Minute.
5.0 Educational and Other Qalifications :
5.1 Grade 2-II of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service :
5.1.1 A satisfactory service of not less than seven years
should have been completed in a Scheduled post
under Class 3 of the Teacher Educators' Service and
having being confirmed in the post ; and
5.1.2 A first or second class (upper) Degree in Education
from a recognized University or a Higher Degree in
Education ; or
5.1.3 A Degree from a recognized University in the relevant
subject field and a Post-graduate Diploma in
Education with a distinction or credit pass or Post
graduate degree in the relevant subject field ; or
5.1.4 A first or second class (upper) Degree from a
recognized University and a Post-graduate Diploma
in Education or Post graduate degree in the relevant
subject field or in Education.
6.0 Salary Scale :
6.1 Salary Scale : SL 1-2006.
7.0 Method of Selection :
7.1 Recruitment will be made on the results of structured
interview conducted by an interview board approved by
the Public Service Commission and according to a marking
scheme approved by the Public Service Commission.
7.2 Vacancies are filled in sequence having counted the number
of vacancies that occur annually.
7.3 At the interview the originals of the following documents
should be produced :
7.3.1 Birth Certificate (The birth certificate issued under
regulations governing admissions to Assisted Schools or
the certificate of Baptism will not be accepted).
7.3.2 The Degree certificates and other certificates for educational
qualifications.
7.3.3 Certificates for Professional Qualifications.
7.3.4. The G. C. E. (O/L) and other certificates received for
knowledge in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
7.4 The Public Service Commission has the right of fill or not
to fill all or some of the vacancies.
7.5 A satisfactory service should have been completed within
the period of five years preceding the date of promotion
by not being subject to a punishment and by earning salary
increments.
7.6 The applications of those who fail to produce the
necessary documents at the interview will not be
considered.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
S. M. G
OTABHAYA JAYARATNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
22nd February, 2013.
PROMOTION TO VACANCIES IN GRADE 2-II OF THE SRI
LANKA TEACHER EDUCA TORS' SERVICE
MODEL APPLICATION FORM
(The application should be prepared on an A4 size paper
using both sides)
01. (i) Name with initials (Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Names the initials stand for :–––––––––––.
02. (i) Official address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private address :–––––––––––.
(iii) Private Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
03. (i) date of birth :–––––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 02.04.2013 :
Years :                   Months :                 Days :
04. NIC No. :
05. The ethnic group you belong to :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
480
06. (i) Date of first appointment :–––––––––––.
(ii) Present post and date of appointment to that post :––––.
(iii) Present work place :–––––––––––.
(iv) If retired, the date :–––––––––––.
(v) Whether the 1st Efficiency Bar of Class 3 of the Teacher
Educators' Service was passed or not and if passed, date of
validity of result :–––––––––––.
07. Particulars about Academic and Professional qualifications :
(i) First Degree :
Name of the Degree Year Class Whether Distinction/
and the awarding Credit or Ordinary
Institution
(ii) Post Graduate Degree :
Name of Certificate Year Class Whether Distinction/
and awarding Credit or Ordinary
Institution
(iii) Diploma in Education :
Name of Duration of Distinction or Details of
Certificate and the Course Credit subjects
awarding
Institution
(iv) Other professional qualifications (Details about Diploma
Certificates and Trained Teachers Certificate) :
Name of Certificate and Duration of Details about
awarding Institution Course subjects
(v) Proficiency in the English Language :
G . C. E. (O/L) Date of Ordinary/Credit/
validity of results Distinction
(vi)
Other Certificates Awarding Institution Grade
obtained for English and date of validity
(vii) Service details (From first appointment) :
Institution Designation Subject From To
08. At present is there an on-going Departmental disciplinary inquiry
against you ? Or is an action proceeding in the judiciary ? (If so
provide details) :––––––––––––.
09. I certify that to the best of my knowledge all the particulars that
I have furnished in this application are true and correct. I am
aware that if any particulars provided here are found to be untrue
and incorrect, I will be considered as unsuitable to be appointed
to this post and that, if any particulars herein provided are
found to be untrue or incorrect, I am liable to be removed from
the post without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF INSTITUTION
The application of .......................... is forwarded. It is hereby
informed that he/she/the reverend is serving in this institution as a
...................../had been served and retired on ............................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature and official seal of
the Head of Institution.
Date :––––––––––––.
Institution :––––––––––––.
PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN CLASS 3 OF THE SRI LANKA TEACHER EDUCATORS' SERVICE
TO GRADE 2-II - MARKING SCHEME
For the marks to be awarded, the relevant qualification should have been completed before the date on which the vacancy occured.
1.0 Work Experience : Maximum Marks 50
For a period in excess of 07 years of active service in Class 3 of the SLTES, marks will be
awarded at 10 per each year subject to a maximum of 05 years

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
481
2.0 Additional Educational Qualifications : Maximum Marks 15
Marks will be awarded only for qualifications additional to the educational qualifications
necessary to apply for Grade 2-II of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service
2.2 Degree 05
2.3 Post-graduate Diploma 10
2.4 Post graduate Degree 15
3.0 Academic Performance : Maximum Marks 10
While marks will not be awarded for documents presented for Degrees, Post-Graduate Diplomas or
Post Graduate Degrees, marks will be given only for one publication and one research
3.1 Research
3.1.1 A properly prepared research report (Final report) 02
3.1.2 Being a research relevant to the field of employment 01
3.1.3 Having forwarded research to a panel 02
3.2 Publications
3.2.1 Subject related publications 03
(Published in Newspapers, Journals etc.)
3.2.2 Publication of subject related books 02
4.0 Information Technology Competence : Maximum Marks 10
(Marks will only be awarded for certificates from recognized institutions)
4.1 For a Diploma in Information Technology Course of 6 months or more 05
4.2 For a Diploma in Information Technology of one year or more 10
5.0 Appraishals obtained in the SLTES : Maximum Marks 05
5.1 Service appraisals and commendation letters in the prescribed format in terms of the 05
provisions of the Establishments Code
06. Language Knowledge : Maximum Marks 10
(Marks will only be awarded for certificates from institutions recognized by the state)
English Language
6.1 For a Diploma in English Language of 6 months or more 05
6.2 For a Diploma in English Langauge of one year or more 10
Total marks 100
03–511
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATION  SRI  LANKA / DEPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES
(SINHALA/TAMIL  LEVEL-I, II, III)
Written Examination for Official Language Proficiency 2013 (April/May)
APPLICATION are invited from the Public Officers for the Official Languages proficiency examination in terms of the Public Administration
Circular Numbers 03/2007 and 07/2007. In accordance with the Circular No. 07/2007, the semi government officers and teachers who have
to gain the relevant level of proficiency can also apply for this examination. The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations
regarding the conducting of examination and issuing results will be final.
02. This examination consists of two parts as Written and Oral. The Written Examination is conducted by the Department of
Examinations and the Oral Examination is conducted by the Department of Official Languages for only those who pass the written
examination. The details contained in this will be relevant for that purpose too. (The answer papers of this will not be re-corrected.)
B 4 – B 80697

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
482
Examination Language Level
1. Written Examination for Official Language Proficiency Sinhala/Tamil Level III (Basic)
2. Written Examination for Official Language Proficiency Sinhala/Tamil Level II (Intermediate)
3. Written Examination for Official Language Proficiency Sinhala/Tamil Level I (Advance)
*Note :
* A candidate can sit for the examination in the relevant category having decided the Level to which a candidate belongs in
accordance with the above mentioned circulars.
* A candidate is eligible to apply only for one level of a particular language.
* Annexure 01 contains the information about the number of papers to which one should sit and the relevant time duration
for each Level of language proficiency.
03. Syllabus relevant to these Written Examinations, Specimen application form and other relevant information can be obtained
from the website of the Department of Official Langauges 
www.languagesdept.gov.lk. The results will not be informed personally to each
candidate and result will be released through the above website only (The result can only be checked by the examination number and
therefore it will be advisable to note down the examination number.)
04. Examination centers will be established in each province in the Island for the written examination and the list of towns and
town numbers are indicated in Annexure 01. If the number of candidates insufficient for any examination center, such examination center will
be cancelled and the candidates will be referred to the next examination center according to their second/third choice. The district of the town
in which the candidate sit for the written examination will be applied for the oral examination too. Therefore the town/towns which have been
applied as examination centers by the candidates will not be allowed to change later.
05. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification with the recommendation of the Head of
the Institution and his/her official seal should be sent by registered post to reach the "Commissioner General of Examination, Organization
and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examination, Pelawatta, Battaramulla" on or before 08th April 2013. The title "Official
Language Proficiency Examination 2013 April/May" should clearly be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope which th e
application is enclosed.
06. Candidates should submit their application according to the sub joined form on A4 size paper application as follows
No. 1-6 should be in the first page and balance should be in the second page. Applicant should fill the application on their own hand writing
clearly.
07. Applications which do not conform to the specimen, contradictory of instructions, incomplete and received after the closing
date will be rejected. When the applications are prepared, the name which is mentioned in the heading should be written in English in addition
to Sinhala in Sinhala application forms and in English in addition to Tamil in Tamil application forms. It will be advisable for you to keep a
photocopy of the application. The language and the level applied will not be allowed to change later.
08. An examination fee will not be charged from the candidates who sit for any level of Proficiency Examination for the first time.
A fee of Rs. 300 will be charged from the other candidates. These candidates should pay their fees to any District or Divisional Secretariat
in the Island and the receipt obtained to the candidate's name should be pasted securely in the relevant cage of the appilcation. The exam fees
should be credited to the Revenue Head "20.03.99.00- Other Revenue".
09. As soon as admission cards are issued to applicants a notice to that effect will be published in the news papers by the
Department of examinations, Sri Lanka. A candidate who does not receive his/her admission card even after 02 or 03 days from the publishing
of aforesaid notice, should immediately notify the Commissioner General of Examination with following particulars. It will be more effective
for you to send your letter of request including a certified copy of the receipt which is kept with you and a copy of the postal registration
receipt of the application along with a fax number, in case you are residing out of Colombo to send admissions to the Departmen t of
Examination.
10. The issuing of an admission card to a candidate should not be treated as  a proof  that he or she has fulfilled the require d
qualification to sit for the Examination.
11. In the Examinations conducted by Department of Examination, the National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of Persons and V alid Passport are only acceptable as the documents of identification at the examination centre. In case of a
candidate who failed to prove their identity, but has sat for the examination, results will be issued for such candidates only after the
confirmation of their identities by an inquiry.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
483
12. the post and the place of service of a candidate at the time of the examination are relevant to all purposes in respect of the
examination and any changes regarding that not will be considered after the sending of application.
13. The decision of the Commissioner General of Examination and/or Commissioner of Official Languages regarding the matters
not mentioned above, relevant to the written examination will be final.
14. The candidates are bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in respect of the
conducting of written examination. If a candidate violates such rules or regulations, he or she will have to undergo a punishment imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations.
15. For further details please contact 011-2889506, 011-2888934-220. Issue relating to admission should be directed to the
Department of Examinations. Tele. : No. 011-2785230, 011-2177075.
J. D. C. JAYASINGHE,
Commissioner of Official Languages.
Department of Official Languages,
"Bhasha Mandiraya",
No. 341/7, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya,
22nd February, 2013.
For Office use only
.................................
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINA TION SRI LANKA / DEPARTMENT OF OFFICIAL LANGUAGES
W
RITTEN EXAMINATION FOR OFFICIAL LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY 2013 (APRIL/MAY) SINHALA/TAMIL LEVEL - I, II, III
(Expecting towns and town number sit for the examination
relevant to Annexure 01 of the Notice)
Town Town No.
1
2
3
Language Applied : Level Applied :
Sinhala - 2 Level I (Advance Level) - 1
Tamil - 3 Level II (Intermediates Level) - 2
Level III (Introductory Level) - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1. Name of the Applicant :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
(Eg.– GAMINI H. W.)
2. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
3. Address :
(i) Official Address :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) (Admission card, result and certificate will be sent to this address)
(ii) Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
484
4. District :
(i) District which include the service center :–––––––––––––.
(In English captial letters)
(ii) District No. :
(According to annexure 01)
5. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
6. National Identity Card No. :
7. Telephone No. :
8. Date of birth :  Year : Month : Date :
9. Your post :
(i) Full name of the designation/Name of the service :–––––––––––––.
(ii) The service which the post belongs to :
Public Service - 1
Provincial Public Service - 2
Semi Government - 3
Other - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
10. Did you sit for the Language Proficiency Examinations which are held before relevant to this level ? Yes/No, If Yes :
Index No. :–––––––––––––. Exam date :–––––––––––––.
11. Details of the receipt : If paid the examination fees :
(i) Name of the institute which you have paid the examination fees :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt number and date :–––––––––––––.
If you have paid the examination fees, according to the paragraph No. 08
of the Gazette Notification. The receipt should be affixed here.
It will be advisable to keep a copy with you.
I hereby certify that the above particulars are true and I haven't applied for this examination or any other level in respect of this
language and, I further declare that I shall abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations and/or
Commissioner of Official Languages in respect of this examination.
–––––––––––––––,
(Signature should be placed in the presence of the Head of the Institution).
Name :–––––––––––––.
Signature :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE INSTITUTION
I hereby certify that the aboev applicant is employed in this office and that the particulars in paragraphs 1 to 11 in this application
are true. He/She placed his/her signature in my presence on .................
–––––––––––––,
Signature.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Official Frank :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
485
Annexure 01
EXAMINATION CENTER OF DISTRICT/TOWN AND TOWN AND DISTRICT NO.
Province District District No./Town No.
Western Province Colombo 1
Gampaha 2
Kalutara 3
North Western Province Kurunegala 4
Chilaw 5
Southern Province Galle 6
Matara 7
Hambantota 8
Sabaragamuwa Province Rathnapura 9
Kegalle 10
Uva Province Badulla 11
Monaragala 12
Central Province Kandy 13
Matale 14
Nuwara-Eliya 15
North Central Province Anuradhapura 16
Polonnaruwa 17
Northern Province Jaffna 18
V avuniya 19
Mllaitivu 20
Kilinochchi 21
Mannar 22
Eastern Province Trincomalee 23
Batticaloa 23
Ampara 25
Examination Procedure :
Minimum marks to be
Medium Level Number of papers Time obtained for a pass
Written                     Oral
Sinhala Level III 01 paper 02 hours 16/40 24/60
Sinhala Level II 01 paper 03 hours
02 paper 03 hours 28/70 12/30
Sinhala Level I 01 paper 03 hours
02 paper 03 hours 28/70 12/30
Tamil Level III 01 paper 02 hours 16/40 24/60
Tamil Level II 01 paper 03 hours
02 paper 03 hours 28/70 12/30
Tamil Level I 01 paper 03 hours
02 paper 03 hours 28/70 12/30
03–529

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
486
SPECIAL  LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION
FOR  FILLING  GRADE  III  VACANCIES  OF  THE  SRI
LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS'  SERVICE  IN  THE
NORTHERN  AND  EASTERN
PROVINCES – 2012(2013)
THE words "Examination will be held in April 2013 in Colombo and
in Jaffna by the Commissioner General of Examinations" mentioned
under the date of Examination in the Notice published under the
Special Competitive Examination for filling Grade III vacancies of
the Sri Lanka Accountants' Service in the Northern and Eastern
Provinces 2012(2013) published in the Part II(A) of the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,798 dated 15th
of February 2013, shall be replaced with "Examination will be held in
March/April 2013 in Colombo or in Jaffna by the Commissioner
General of Examinations".
03–421/1
–––––––––––––––––
SPECIAL  LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION
FOR  FILLING  GRADE  III  VACANCIES OF  THE  SRI
LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS'  SERVICE  IN  THE
NORTHERN AND  EASTERN  PROVINCES – 2012
THE words "The number of vacancies to be filled through this
examination in the Northern and Eastern Provinces is 63" mentioned
in Para 3.1 of Section 3, under the conditions of service in the notice
published under the Special Competitive Examination for filling Grade
III vacancies of Sri Lanka Accountants' Service in the Northern and
Eastern Provinces – 2012 published in the Part II(A) of the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,755 dated
20th of April, 2012, shall be replaced with "the number of vacancies
to be filled through this examination in the Northern and Eastern
Provinces is 32".
03–421/2
–––––––––––––––
DIRECT  RECRUITMENT  TO THE  GRADE  III  OF
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE  TO  FILL
V ACANCIES  IN  THE  NORTHERN  AND  EASTERN
PROVINCES  ON  MERIT  BASIS  ON   PROFESIONAL
QUALIFICATIONS – 2012 (2013)
APPLICATIONS are called for recruitment to the post of
Accountant Grade III of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service for Northern
and Eastern Provinces as per para 7.4 of the Service Minute of the
Sri Lanka Accountants’  Service published in the Extraordinary
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.
1670/33 dated 10.09.2010. The applications prepared in accordance
with the specimen form given below should be sent by registered
post addressed to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury (A), General
Treasury, Ministry of Finance and Planning,  Colombo 01 on or
before  08.04.2013. The words "Application for direct
recruitment to the posts of Accountant Grade III of the Sri
Lanka Accountants’ Service for Northern and Eastern
Provinces"  should be written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope enclosing  the application.
02.   Method of  Recruitment .-  Officers will be selected on
marks scored by them at the  structured interview conducted by a
Board of  Interview appointed  by the Public Service Commission
after calling for applications from persons who possess following
qualifications, in order to fill 09 vacancies in Grade III of the Sri
Lanka Accountants’ Service. The Candidates should face the
structured interview in Tamil Medium.
03.  Conditions of Service. - Selected candidates will be appointed
to Grade III of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service subject to procedural
rules of the  Public Service Commission and conditions prescribed
in the minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service published in the
Extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka No. 1670/33  dated 10.09.2010 and amendments made thereto
or to be made hereinafter. Further, candidates should acquire language
proficiency as per  the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007.
 3.1. Those who are selected should serve at least 10  years in
the Northern and Eastern Provinces from the  date of
appointment. Failure to do so would result in termination
of their service.
 3.2. Applications of the  candidates are liable to be revoked if
the candidates fail to assume duties of the post on the
prescribed date and/or refuse or avoid to assume duties in
the post or in an area stipulated.
04.  The selected officers should pass the First Efficiency Bar
Examination within 03 years from the date of appointment .
Structure and monthly salary scale  :
Monthly salary scale as per salary code   SL 1 – 2006 of the
Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 dated
25.04.2006.
Monthly salary scale  – SL 1 – 2006 – Rs. 22,935 – 10X645
– 8X790 – 17 X 1050  – Rs. 53,555.
05.  Professional Qualifications  :
(i) Should have passed the Final Examination of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka ;
                                 or
(ii) Should have passed the Final Examination of an Institute
of Charted Accountants in a Commonwealth Country ;
                                or
(iii) Should have passed the Final Examination of an Institute
of Charted Management Accountants in a Commonwealth
Country ;
                                or
(iv) Sho uld have passed Final Examination of the Institute of
Charted Certified Accountants ;
                                or
(v) Should have passed the final Examination of Association
of Charted Certified Accountants of United Kingdom.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
487
06.  Physical Fitness.- All candidates should be physically fit in
all aspects to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
07.  Other Qualifications  :-
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should be of excellent moral character,
(iii) A person holding priesthood in any of the religious sects
will not be eligible to face the structured interview as per
7.4.3.3 of the service minute of  the Sri Lanka
Accountants’ Service,
(iv) Date of eligibility.
A candidate will be deemed to have  fulfilled necessary
qualifications for appointment to the service if  he/she has completed
the above mentioned  qualifications in all aspects as at  the closing
date of the application. Copies of certificates should be attached to
the application in support of qualifications.
08.  Age Limit.-   Candidate should be not less than 22 years of
age and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date of the
application.
09.  Candidates  should forward following documents along
with the application
(a) A copy of Birth Certificate,
(b) Copies of the certificates of Highest Educational and
Professional Qualifications,
(c) Two testimonials (one of them should be from the
Principal/ Lecturer or Professor of the University/
Institution).
10.  Structured making scheme relating to the direct recruitment
on merit.
(a) Educational Qualifications  - Maximum Marks – 20
Educational Qualification Marks
(i) General Degree 08
(ii) Special Degree 09
(iii) General Degree with 2
nd Class 09
(iv) Special Degree with 2nd Class 11
(v) General Degree with 1 st  Class 11
(vi) Special Degree with 1st  Class 12
(vii) Postgraduate Diploma 13
(viii) Postgraduate Diploma with Accounts or
Auditing as a subject 15
(ix) M.A. or Above 15
(x) M.A. or Above with Accounts or Auditing
as a subject 20
(b) Professional Qualifications -      Maximum Marks -50
Professional Qualification Marks
(i) Should be a Diploma Holder in Accountancy or 15
Commerce as a subject obtained from the
Sri Lanka Technical College /Sri Lanka Institute
of Higher Technical Education.
(ii) Pass in the Licentiate / Intermediate examination 20
of  The Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Sri Lanka Stage II Examination of the Institute
of Chartered  Institute of Management
Accountants.  A pass in the Professional
Part I of the Association of Chartered
Certified  Accountants.
(iii) A Pass in Final Part I examination of the 30
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Sri Lanka, A pass in the Stage III examination of
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants
of a pass in the  Professional Part II examination
of the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants.
(iv) Should have obtained the Associated 40
Membership of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka, Chartered Institute
of Management Accountants or Association of
Chartered Certified Accountants or any other
recognized professional qualifications.
(v) Possession of a fellowship of the Institute of 50
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or Chartered
Institute of Management  Accountants or
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
or any other Recognized professional
qualifications.
(c) Computer Literacy  - Maximum Marks – 10
Computer Literacy Marks
(i) Computer Driving License awarded by the 4
Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration
(ii) A pass in a Computer Course of not less than 5
3 months and possession of  Certificate from an
Institute recognized  by the Tertiary and
Professional Education Commission.
(iii) A Computer Diploma awarded by the 6
National Institute of Business Management
(iv) A Computer Diploma awarded by an University 8
(v) Any other qualification higher than that of 10
IV above.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
488
(d) By the Board of Interview -  Maximum Marks   - 05
These marks will be awarded by the Board of Interview
based on the skills shown when facing  the interview.
(e) 05 marks for each  year for working experience in the
respective field   Maximum Marks   -  15
        Total Marks - 100
"Marks will be given after perusal by an Interview Board
approved  by the Public Service Commission."
11.  An Officer who is already in the Public Service/the Provincial
Public Service should forward his/her original application through
their Heads of the Department to reach the Deputy Secretary to
the Treasury, (A), The General Treasury, Ministry of Finance and
Planning, Colombo 01.  A copy of the application may be  directly
forwarded to the same address before the closing date of
application.
12.  Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared by the candidate
himself/herself  strictly in accordance with the specimen
form given in  this notification on  A 4 sheet of  paper
size.
(b) Item No.  01 to 05 of the application should be on the
first page. The application should be in the Language in
which the candidate is eligible to  face the interview.
However, the heading should be written in English
(Block Capitals) when preparing the application in
addition to Tamil Language.
(c) Incomplete applications are liable to  be rejected. No
appeal will be considered in respect of  loss of
application in the  post and the  application received
after the closing date.
(d) If any of particulars furnished by candidate is   found to
be incorrect and has been done so within his/her
knowledge or that  he/she has willfully suppressed a
material fact he/she will be liable to be disqualified to
receive an appointment. If already in service they shall
be liable to be  dismissed.
13.   The final decision of filling all the existing vacancies or part
of them will be taken by the Public Service Commission.
14. Selected candidates should  pass First Efficiency Bar
Examination in the following subjects prior to the confirmation in
his/her post at the end of the probation period :
(i) Government Financial Procedures ;
(ii) Law and Management ;
(iii) Administration ;
(iv) Report Writing and Presenting   Information to the
Management.
15.  Appointments to the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service will be
made by the Public Service Commission. An officer will be on
probation for a  period of three years and will be confirmed in his/
her post at the end of the probation period on successful completion
of  the First Efficiency Bar Examination and prescribed Sinhala/
Tamil proficiency test.
           By the order of the Public Service Commission,
P. B. J
AY ASUNDERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
General Treasury,
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
On this  08th day of March  2013.
Direct Recruitment to the Grade III of Sri Lanka
Accountants' Service to fill Vacancies in the Northern and
Eastern Provinces on Merit Basis on Professional
Qualifications – 2012 (2013)
No.
(For Office use only)
Medium of interview :
Tamil- 1,
(Please write relevant number in the cage)
01. 1:1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
                       (In Capital letters ) Ex : Mr. SILV A, A.B.
1.2 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In Tamil)
1.3 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In English Capital letters)
1.4 National Identity Card No :
02. 2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
2.2 Official  Address :–––––––––––.
(An officer in the Public or Provincial Public Service
should give his official address. Any change of address
should be communicated immediately.)
03. 3.1 Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
3.2 Age as at    08.04.2013   :
Years :–––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
(Closing date of the application)
04. Gender :  Male Female
05. Whether married or Single  : Married Single

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.03.2013
489
06.  Highest Examination passed in Language Proficiency :
   (i)   Sinhala      (ii)  Tamil       (iii) English
(1)
(2)
(3)
07.  Academic/Professional and Technical Qualifications :–––––––.
(Please give details of all degrees, distinctions, professional
and/or  technical qualification etc. obtained with date and class
secured if any, subjects offered and names of institutions.)
08. Present occupation and previous appointments, please indicate
the  date of appointment , date of departure, the last annual
salary received and the reason for   termination of employment.
Post from to Annual Salary Reason for
(Rs.) termination of
employment
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
09.  Have you been charged in a Court of Law for any criminal
offence? If so, state full particulars with dates, quoting number
of case
10.  Any further particulars :–––––––––––.
11.  Give the names and addresses of  two persons, other than
whose certificates of character are being furnished known to
you from whom particulars about you could be obtained.
           (1) ––––––––––––––
           (2) ––––––––––––––
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
information  contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am
liable for disqualification/dismissal without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
Recommendation  of the Head of the Department if the candidate
is in the Public Service or the Provincial Public Service.
     I hereby certify that the candidate named Mr./Mrs./Miss
…………………….  has been serving at the ……………, as a
Public Servant/Provincial Public Servant, since …...............… and
his work and conduct has been satisfactory.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature and the Official Seal
of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
03–422
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
–––––––––––––––––––
Amendment
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND  HOME  AFFAIRS
THE Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka published on 01st March, 2013 Gazette No. 1,800 on Part I Section (IIA)
under the Section Examination, Results of Examination &c.,  should be Amended as follows :
“Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade II Class II of Sri Lanka Scientific Service - 2013 the Closing Date of
Calling Applications of the aforesaid examination will be extended up to 15.03.2013”.
On the order of the Public Service Commission.
P . B. ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
05th March, 2013.
03–794