

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 12
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"055- 2018 ckjdß ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'01'19                                                                                             
No. 2,055 - FRIdAy , JANUARy  19,  2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  09th  February  2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th January, 2018.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note .-    Active Liability Management  Bill is published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   
Republic of Sri Lanka of January 19, 2018.
11 - B 81244-353 (2018/01)

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'19
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 19.01.2018
12
miscellaneous Lands notices
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General : 4/10/52523.
Ref. No. of Provincial  Land  Commissioner  No.: EP/28/
LB/LS/AMP/SAM/18.     
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  
LAnD ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that Hammer Lanka (Private) Ltd.  has  
requested a state land allotment in extent of  03 Acres 02 
Roods depicted in the tracing  and situated in the  village of 
Walathapiti of Walathapiti Grama  Niladhari division  which  
belongs to Sammanthurai  divisional Secretary's  division in 
the  district of  Ampara on lease for   commercial purposes. 
02. the boundaries of the  land  requested are given below.
 
On the North by : Paddy field ;
On the East by : Road ;
On the  South by :  State land ;
On the West by : Paddy  field.  
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease 
out the land  subject   to   other    Government  approved   
conditions and the  following  conditions : -  
 (a)  Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years  (From 
07.12.2017  onwards);
  The Annual  amount  of the Lease.–  In the instances 
where the valuation  of land  in the  year  2017  is  less 
than five    million Rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000)  2% of the 
market value of  the  land in  the  said  year,  as per the 
valuation of the chief  valuer. In the Instances where the  
valuation of  land in the  year 2017  is  more than five 
million  Rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000),  4% of  the market 
value of the land  in the  said year as a  per  valuation 
of the   chief  valuer. this  amount  of the  lease must  
be   revised in the   every  five  years and the  revision 
shall added a  20%  to the  amount  that  just  preceded. 
  Premium .-  Not levied
 (b) this lessees must, within a  period  of one (01)  year 
from tha  date  of commencement of the lease, develop  
the said  land, to the  satisfation of the divisional 
Secretary;
 
 (c) the lessees must not use the said land for any purpose 
what so ever other than  a Commercial  Purpose;
 (d) this lease  shall also  be  subject  to the  other  special 
conditions imposed by the  divisional Secretary  and  
other  institutions;  
 (e)  Existing/constructed  buildings  must be maintained in 
a proper state of repair;
 
 (f)  If the  lessee fails  to substantiate  the   purpose for  
which  the land  was  obtained within the  specified 
period  of  time  steps will be  taken to cancel the  
agreement of lease; 
 (g) No permission will be granted until expiry of  05 years 
from the  date of which  the  Hon.  Minister granted  
approval, for  any  other  subleasing  or assigning other  
than  assigning within the  family  or  subleasing  or  
assigning  to  substantiate the purpose of which  the 
land  was  obtained ;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease rental  must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date when publish this notice to the 
effect that this land must not be given on lease, the land will 
be leased out as requested. 
  
L. P. Chamika  Subodhini, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner(Land),
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
 "Mihikatha Medura",  Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
19th January,  2018.
01-429 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'19
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 19.01.2018
13
Ref. No. Land Commissioner General : 4/10/46857.
Ref. No. of Provincial  Land  Commissioner  No.: EP/LB/
Les/AMP/Lanu/152.     
noTIfIcATIon  mADe  unDeR  STATe  
LAnD ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that Mr. Chaminda  Chinthaka 
Nanayakkara has  requested a state land  allotment  in extent 
of  01 Acre  28 Perches depicted  as Lot  No. 01 in the Plan  
No.  2011/146 and  situated  in the village  of   Amaran Pokuna  
of  Panama South   PP/02  Grama  Niladhari division  which   
belongs  to Lahugala  divisional  Secretary' s  division  in 
the  district of  Ampara on  lease upon commercial basis  to 
run  the  Turtle Bay  Beach Hotel. 
02. the boundaries of the  land  requested are given below.
 
On the North by : Land  belongs to M. Ariyasena  ;
On the East by : Coastal Reservation ;
On the  South by :  Land  Belongs to A. Punchi 
Mahaththaya  ;
On the West by : Reservation of Ullawela lagoon  road.  
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out 
the land  subject   to other  Government  approved   conditions 
: -  
 (a)  Terms  of  Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years  (From 15.06.2017  
onwards);
  The Annual  Amount of the Lease.–  4% of the  market 
value of the land  in the  year  2017 as per the valuation 
of the  Chief  Valuer. this  amount  of the  lease must 
be revised in every  five years and the   revision  
shall not be  more than  50% of the  amount that just  
preceded. 
  Premium .-  three times of the  annual amount  of the  
lease;
 (b) this lessees must, within a  period  of one (01)  year 
from tha  date  of commencement of the lease, develop  
the said  land, to the  satisfation of the divisional 
Secretary;
 
 (c)  t he lessees must not use this land for any purpose other 
than   Commercial  Purpose;
 (d) this lease  shall also  be  subject  to the  other  special 
conditions imposed by the  divisional Secretary  and  
other  institutions;  
 (e)  Existing/constructed  buildings  must be maintained in 
a proper state of repair;
 
 (f)  If the  lessee fails  to substantiate  the   purpose for  
which  the land  was  obtained within the  specified 
period  of  time  steps will be  taken to cancel the  
agreement of lease; 
 (g) No permission will be granted until expiry of  05 years 
from the  date of which  the  Hon.  Minister granted  
approval, for  any  other  subleasing  or assigning other  
than  assigning within the  family  or  subleasing  or  
assigning  to  substantiate the purpose of which  the 
land  was  obtained ;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of  herein Gazette publication to the effect 
that this land must not be given on lease, the land will be 
leased out as requested. 
  
L. P. Chamika  Subodhini, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner(Land),
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura",  Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
19th January,  2018.
01-430
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANkA.