

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
SRI NATHA  AHASTHANA  INTERNATIONAL
BUDDHIST  MEDITATION CENTRE
PERFORMANCE  SOCIETY
(INCORPORATION)
————————
————————
Presented by Hon. J. M. Ananda Kumarasiri, M. P. for
Monaragala District on 23rd of January, 2018
(Published in the Gazette on November 22, 2017)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
A
BILL
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
————————
[Bill No. 229]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI NATHA AHASTHANA INTERNATIONAL
BUDDHIST MEDITATION CENTRE PERFORMANCE SOCIETY
WHEREAS a Society called and known as the “ Sri Natha
Ahasthana International Buddhist Meditation Centre
Performance Society ” has heretofore been formed in Sri
Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and transacting all matters connected with the said Society
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Soiety has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established, and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be expendient to grant the said application:
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Sri Natha Ahasthana
International Buddhist Meditation Centre Performance
Society 
 (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2018.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the Sri
Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist Meditation Centre
Performance Society (hereinafter referred to as the “Society”)
or  shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the “ Sri Natha
Ahasthana International Buddhist Meditation Centre
Performance Society”  (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”), and by that name may sue and be sued, with
full power and authority to have and use a common seal and
to alter the same at its pleasure.
Short Title.
Incorporation
of the
Sri Natha
Ahasthana
International
Buddhist
Meditation
Centre
Performace
Society.
Preamble.
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
(Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Services Organization within the meaning, and for
the purpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide opportunities for fourfold groups to
realize the nirvana;
(b) to work for the stability of the Buddha Sasana;
(c) to improve, maintain and protect the centre;
(d) to provide four requisites of robes, alms
(Vegetarian), hermitage and drinks offerings for
fourfold groups of Bhikku, Bhikkuni, laymen and
laywomen who dwell at the centre;
(e) to empower and assist laymen and laywomen to
improve their virtue (Sheela), concentration
(Samadhi) and wisdom (Pragna);
(f) to organize meditation programs for laymen and
laywomen on every full moon poya day; and
(g) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment
of the objects of the Corporation.
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out without any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of  birth or any of such grounds.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
 4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or any Provincial Council.
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of Directors
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.
(2) (a) The Board of Directors of the Foundation that
holds office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of
the Corporation until the first Board is appointed or elected
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.
(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3) ( a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons and advisors except Esteemed Meditation Teacher,
shall be appointed or elected for a period of three years and
any such office bearer, patron or advisor shall be eligible
for re-appointment or re-election after lapse of the said
period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the
death, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an
office bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of
the Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such
vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.
Corporation
to ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
of the central
Government
or Province.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
(Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion of any one of them, including
the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate
and otherwise obtain lands or buildings which
may be required for the purposes of the Corporation
and to deal with or dispose of the same as may
be deemed expedient with a view to promoting the
objects of the Corporation;
(b) to raise funds, borrowing with or without
securities and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind:
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close accounts in any
banks;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation, in such manner as
the Board may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
Powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation;
(g) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a view to promoting the objectives of the
Corporation;
(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to that of the
Corporation;
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purposes of the Corporation; and
(j) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:–
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointments, powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation;
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
(Incorporation)
6
(d) the procedure to be follwed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the sub  Board, or any sub-
committ thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications to be a
member of the  Board and the Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its’ objects and
dissolution of the Corporation.
 (2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in
like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which names, addresses and other essential details of the
members be inscribed.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on account
of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more Banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
Register of
members.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
(Incorporation)
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by Auditor-General in terms of
Article 154 of the Constitution.
(4) For the purposes of this section, "qualified auditor"
means–
(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or any other Institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant, issued by the Council of such
Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued
by the Council of such Institute.
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited statement of accounts to the
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Social Services and to the  Registrar of Voluntary Social
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
audit.
Annual
Report.

<!-- page 9 -->

Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
(Incorporation)
8
Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary Social
Services Organization  (Registration and Supervision) Act,
No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the
year succeeding the year to which such report relates.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and
local moneys received by the Corporation during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable to
the society on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold any  property
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition  or
otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of,  the
same.
14. The moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of
two members of the Board who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such  signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
5
10
15 Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Society.
Application
of money
and property.
Seal of the
Corporation.
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
(Incorporation)
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is by
the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its members.
(2) For the purposes of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of
the Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a
general meeting by the majority of votes of the members
present.
17. Nothing in this Act  contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of  anybody politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
other.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 11 -->

Sri Natha Ahasthana International Buddhist
Meditation Centre Performance Society
(Incorporation)
10