

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2743
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"091 – 2018 iema;eïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'09'28
No. 2,091  –  FRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 28, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th october, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th october, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2741-b 81453- 5,403 (09/2018)
Note.–  (i) counter terrorism bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka of september 14, 2018.
 (ii) appropriation bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka of september 21, 2018.
N. B.–   Part i:iii of the Gazette No. 2090 of 21.09.2018 was not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2018
2742
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	a	candidate	
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	been	
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes	of	colours	and	boxes	of	instruments	where	necessary	or	any	file	
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		 Be		 at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	documents	at	the	Examination	Hall,	his	candidature	is	liable	
to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	into	
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	different	
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of	 the	 problem.	 Necessary	 sketches,	 diagrams	 and	 figures	 should	 be	
accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		answer	running	into	serveral	pages	if	
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	collected.		Failure	
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2018
2743
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
DEPARTmENT Of ANImAL PRODuCTION AND hEALTh
First  Efficiency  Bar  Examination  for  the  Officers  in  Sri  Lanka  Animal Production  and  
health  Service  - 2016(2018)
it is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the above mentioned service will be held in 
Peradeniya in December, 2018. Applications are called from the officers who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and 
Health service as at 31st may , 2018.
02.Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the 
same time.
03.The Syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations 1 are stated in the New Service 
minute. Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
04.The prescribed subjects for the Efficiency Bar Examination I are given below :
 Subjects Duration Aggregate marks Pass Marks
1. Financial systems 02hours 100 40
2. administration 02 hours 100 40
3. departmental Regulations 1 02 hours 100 40
4. departmental Regulations 2 02 hours 100 40
05. Syllabus for the examination :
Subject Syllabus
1. Financial systems the Financial Regualtions of the Government of sri Lanka (Except chapter X)
2. administration (a)  Office Systems, Office Management and knowledge on office organization;
 (b) Procedural rules of the Public service commission chapters from i-XXii and   
  Establishment code chapters Vi,Vii.Viii,iX,Xii,Xiii, XiV , XV , XVi, XVii,   
 XViii, XiX,  XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, 
   XLVii and  XLViii.
3. dept.Regulations animal act, the animal disease act and related regulations, departmental orders and
  Paper i  circulars relevant to Veterinary surgeon's services.
4. dept.Regulations Paper ii (a) Dissemination of specimens,Laboratory identification including post-mortem
   examination. Pregnancies diagnosis, vaccines for contagious and infectious disease, 
   serological test.
 (b) Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations,principles relevant to breeding  
  and rearing of calves, hatching and rearing of chicks by incubation, animal nutrition 
   food rationing usage, pasture fodder cultivation, preparation of silages and Livestock 
   management.
 (c) Milk production,bottling and transportation of pasteurized milk, bacteria and fat in 
   milk, separation of cream and processing of butter, ghee and curd.
 (d) Slaughtering of animal in  abattoirs, identification of meat including testing

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2018
2744
The attention of the Candidates who sit for the Efficiency 
bar Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the treasury 
circular No.701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced 
below :-
"the medium for departmental examinations (including 
promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be 
the Language in which the officer sat for the Competitive 
Examination to enter the Public services or the Official 
Language. But the officers who entered the service without a 
competitive examination should select either the Language 
in which the officer qualified for entery to the Public Service 
or the Official Language.
06.  this Examination will be conducted in sinhala,tamil 
and English.Permission will not be given to change the 
medium applied by the candidate later.
07. if found later that the candidate has sat for the 
Examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his 
candidature will be cancelled.
08.  the application should be in the form of the specimen 
appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 
size paper using both sides of it.It should be noted that 
the cages 01 to 06 should appear on page 1 of the paper 
and the rest on the other side of the paper.the application 
should be filled by the candidate.The applications which are 
not prepared as per the specimen form and the incomplete 
application forms will be rejected without informing the 
candidate.the candidate is advised to keep a Photostat 
copy of the application for his use. Further the candidate 
should check the applications prepared by himself with the 
specimen application appeared in the notice. the name of 
the  examination should be wrriten in English too in the 
applications prepared in sinhala or tamil medium.
09. the Examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are 
bound to abide by rules and regulations enacted by him.the 
relevant rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this 
notice.if a candidate violates any of the rules is liable to 
punishment at the discretion of the commissioner General 
of Examination.
10.  applications should be forwarded through the 
Head of department/institute by registered post to reach 
the director General of animal Production and Health , 
to the address given below on or before 19.10.2018.the 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
the director General of animal Production and Health,
department of animal Production and Health,
P. o. box 13, Gatambe,
Peradeniya.
11. the applicants those who have forwarded the 
accurately completed application including their language 
medium in which they wish to appear at the examination, 
applicant's signature and certification of Departmental Head, 
and the receipt when it is prescribed to pay the fee before or 
on the date of receiving applications indicated in the notice, 
will be issued the admissions by the commissioner General 
of Examinations. as soon as the admission cards are issued  
to the candidates a notice will be published in papers as 
well as in the official website of the Department. If the 
admission card is not received 2-3 days after the publication 
of the notice, it should be informed to the department of 
Examinations as stated in the notice.there, the candidates 
are informed to indicate candidate's Full Name, address, 
National identity card Number and the Examination applied 
for. the candidates who reside outside colombo should 
make the inquiry to the fax number given in this notice 
stating his / her fax number in the request to obtain a copy 
of the admission card. It is useful to keep certified Photostat 
copies of the application and receipt of the payment and 
receipt of the registration in your possession.
12. the claims submitted later by the candidates who 
have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above 
paragraph 11 will not be considered.
13. only the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons or the valid Passport 
will be accepted for the examinations conducted by the 
department of Examinations in order to prove the identity 
of the candidate at the examination hall. the applicant's 
signature in the application as well as in the admission 
card should be certified by the Head of the Department 
or by an authorized person. The applicant should  appear 
for the examination being seated in the place where your 
examination number has been indicated and the certified  
admission card should be produced to the examiner on the 
examination day. the applicant who does not produce the 
certified admission card will not be allowed  to sit for the 
examination.
14.  Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for 
the examination on the following basis :
 (a) No fees will be levied from the candidates who sit 
for this examination for the first time.
 (b) For each subsequent sitting.
  For whole examination : Rs. 1,200.00
  Single subject  : Rs. 600.00
candidates who have already sat for this examination or 
the ones those who have applied previously, are required 
to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. the above 
examination fees should be paid to any Post Office /Sub 
Post Office situated in the Island to be  credited to Revenue 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2018
2745
Head No. 20-03- 02-13 of the commissioner General of 
Examination and the receipt of it should be affixed to the 
edge of the relevant cage in the application.Further it may 
be useful to keep a Photostat copy of it.
15. issuing of an admission card to a candidate will not 
be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit for the examination.
16. if sinhala/ tamil or English language versions of the 
Gazette notification are comparative the Sinhala version 
will be accepted.
 dr. 
Nihal WedasiNghe,
 director General of the dept. of animal 
 Production and Health.
11th september, 2018.
Specimen Application form
miNistRy oF FisHERiEs aNd aquatic 
REsouRcEs dEVELoPmENt aNd RuRaL 
EcoNomic aFFaiRs 
First eFFicieNcy Bar examiNatioN For the oFFicers iN 
sri laNka aNimal ProductioN aNd 
health service -2016 (2018)
(the name of the examination should be written on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope)
Language medium of examination :   
 
 sinhala   2
 t amil 3
 English 4
 (Give the relevant number in the box)
01.  (i) Full name (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   (ex.: HERatH  mudiyaNsELaGE  samaN  
  KumaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNE)
      (ii) Last name with initials (in block letters) :–––––. 
  (ex.: GuNa WaRdHaNE H.m.s.K)
     (iii) Full Name (in sinhala /tamil) :––––––––––.
02. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block 
letters) :––––––––––.
 2.1 telephone No. : 
03. male / Female :
 Female   -     1
 male      -      0
 (write the appropriate number in the cage)
04. Nic number :
05. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the 
paragraph 04 of the notification :
 (should be written clearly)
Subject No. Subject
06. state whether you have sit for whole or a part of this 
examination. If so state the subjects, year and month 
:–––––––––––.
07. date of birth :
 y ear :  month :  date : 
08. Name of the designation :–––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
 Name of the department :–––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
09. the date on which the appointment  was made to the 
sri Lanka animal Production and Health service :               
–––––––––––.
i declare that the above particulars are correct and that 
i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium indicated above. Further i am prepared to abide 
the conditions enacted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations with regard to the conduct of the examination.
Examination Fee Rs. :–––––––––––.
Paying Office :–––––––––––.
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
To affix the receipt (keep a Photostat copy of the receipt) 
   
 ––––––––––,
 signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2018
2746
commissioner General of Examinations,
through director General, department of animal Production and Health,
Forwarded :–
*i certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/ she has 
qualifications to sit for the examination in the medium stated  in the application.
I also certify that the receipt, paying the prescribed examination fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate. 
i attest the candidate's signature.
 ––––––––––––––,   
 signature of Head of department and designation. 
 (Place the rubber stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
(*may be deleted, fee not been paid)
09–802/1
–––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of ANImAL PRODuCTION AND hEALTh 
Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Sri Lanka Animal Production and 
health Service -2016(2018)
it is hereby notified that the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the above mentioned service will be held in 
Peradeniya in December, 2018. Applications are called from the officers who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and 
Health service as at 31st may, 2018.
02. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at 
the same time.
03. The syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to efficiency bar examinations II are stated in the service minute.
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
04. The prescribed subjects for the efficiency bar examination II are given below.
Examination Detail :
 Paper Subject No. Duration hours Aggregate Pass Marks
Part 01 01 03 100 40
or
Part 02 02 03 100 40
and
Part 03   02 papers should be answered from part 03
Paper 01 03 03 100 40
Paper 02 04 03 100 40
Paper 03 05 03 100 40
Paper 04 06 03 100 40
Paper 05 07 03 100 40
Paper 06 08 03 100 40
Paper 07 09 03 100 40
Paper 08 10 03 100 40
Paper 09 11 03 100 40
Paper 10 12 03 100 40
Paper 11 13 03 100 40

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2018
2747
05. Syllabus for the examination :
 Paper Subject No. Syllabus
Part 01 01 sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2, 8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2,  
  9:4, 9:6, 9:7 from the syllabus.
Part 02 02 sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1, 10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3,  
  10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8, 10:4:1 of the syllabus
Paper Subject No.    Syllabus 
Part 3
Paper 01 03 Epidemiology
Paper 02 04 Livestock Economics
Paper 03 05 Veterinary Public Health
Paper 04 06 agriculture Extension 
Paper 05 07 Genetics and breeding
Paper 06 08 animal Physiology and reproduction 
Paper 07 09 Housing for animals and management
Paper 08 10 animal Nutrition
Paper 09 11 Pasture and Fodder
Paper 10 12 applied Vet. microbiology and immunology
Paper 11 13 applied medicine, Pathology and Parasitology
Note.– The candidates who sit for 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination should select either part 01 or 02 and two question 
papers from the above Xi papers in Part 03, candidates should obtain at least 40% marks for each paper. 
05. The attention of the Candidates who sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the 
treasury circular No.701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :-
“The medium for departmental examinations (including Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be 
the Language in which the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official Language. 
But the officers who entered the service without a competitive examination should select either the Language in which the 
officer qualified for entry to the Public Service or the Official Language.
06. this Examination will be conducted in sinhala,tamil and English.Permission will not be given to change the 
medium applied by the candidate later.
07. if found later that the candidate has sat for the Examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his 
candidature will be cancelled.
08. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared 
on A4 size paper using both sides of it.It should be noted that the cages 01 to 06 should appear on page 1 of the paper and 
the balance on the other side of the paper.The application should be filled by the candidate.The applications which are not 
prepared as per the specimen form and the incomplete application forms will be rejected without informing the candidate.
the candidate is advised to keep a Photostat copy of the application for his use. Further the candidate should check the 
applications prepared by himself with the specimen application appeared in the notice. the name of the  examination should 
be wrriten in English too in the applications prepared in sinhala or tamil medium.
09. the Examination will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound 
to abide by rules and regulations enacted by him.the relevant rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this notice.if 
a candidate violates any of the rules is liable to punishment at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
10.applications should be forwarded through the Head of department/institute by Registered Post to reach the 
director General of animal Production and Health , to the address given below on or before 19.10.2018.the applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2018
2748
the director General of animal Production and Health,
department of animal Production and Health,
P. o. 13, Getambe,
Peradeniya. 
11. the applicants those who have forwarded the 
accurately completed application including their language 
medium in which they wish to appear at the examination, 
applicant's signature and certification of Departmental Head, 
and the receipt when it is prescribed to pay the fee before or 
on the date of receiving applications indicated in the notice, 
will be issued the admissions by the commissioner General 
of Examinations. a paper notice will be published by the 
department of Examinations as soon as the admission 
cards are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is 
not received 2-3 days after the publication of the notice, 
it should be informed to the department of Examinations 
as stated in the notice. there, the candidates are informed 
to indicate candidate’s full name, address, National 
identity card Number and the Examination applied for.the 
candidates who reside outside colombo should make the 
inquiry to the fax number given in this notice stating his / her 
fax number in the request to obtain a copy of the admission 
card. It is useful to keep certified Photostat copies of the 
application and receipt of the payment and receipt of the 
registration in your possession. the claims submitted later 
by the candidates who have failed to fulfill the requirements 
as stated in the above paragraph 11 will not be considered.
12. the claims submitted later by the candidates who 
have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above 
paragraph 11 will not be considered.
13. only the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons or the valid passport 
will be accepted for the examinations conducted by the 
department of Examinations in order to prove the identity 
of the candidate at the examination hall.the applicants 
signature in the application as well as in the admission 
card should be certified by the Head of the Department 
or by an authorized  person.the applicant should  appear 
for the examination being seated in the place where your 
examination number has been indicated and the certified  
admission card should be produced to the examiner on the 
examination day.the applicant who does not produce the 
certified admission card will not be allowed  to sit for the 
examination.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the 
examination on the following basis :
 (a) No fees will be levied from the candidates who sit 
for this examination for the first time,
 (b) For each subsequent sitting :
  For whole examination : Rs.  1,200.00
  Single subject  : Rs.  600.00
candidates who have already sat for this examination 
are required to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. 
the above examination fees should be paid to any post 
office / sub post office situated in the Island to be  credited 
to Revenue Head No. 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examination and the receipt of it should be 
affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the application.
Further it may be useful to keep a Photostat copy of it.
15. issuing of an admission card to a candidate will not 
be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit for the examination.
16. if sinhala/ tamil or English versions of the Gazette 
notification are comparative the Sinhala versions will be 
accepted.
 dr. 
Nihal WedasiNghe,
 director General of the dept. of animal 
 Production and Health.
P. o. box 13,
Getambe, Peradeniya,
11th september, 2018.
Specimen Application form
miNistRy oF FisHEREis aNd aquatic 
REsouRcEs dEVELoPmENt aNd RuRaL 
EcoNomic aFFaiRs
secoNd eFFicieNcy Bar examiNatioN For the 
oFFicers iN  sri laNka aNimal ProductioN aNd 
health service -2016 (2018)
(the name of the examination should be written on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope)
Language medium of examination :   
 
 sinhala   2
tamil 3
English 4
 (Give the relevant number in the box)
01.  (i) Full name (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   (ex.: HERatH  mudiyaNsELaGE  samaN  
  KumaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNE)
      (ii) Last name with initials (in block letters) :–––––. 
  (ex.: GuNa WaRdHaNE H.m.s.K)
     (iii) Full Name (in sinhala /tamil) :––––––––––.
02. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block 
letters) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'09'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.09.2018
2749
03. male / Female :
 Female   -     1
 male      -      0
 (write the appropriate number)
04. Nic Number :
05. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the 
paragraph 04 of the notification :
 (should be written clearly)
Subject No. Subject
06. state whether you have sit for whole or a part of this 
examination. If so state the subjects, year and month 
:–––––––––––.
07. date of birth :
 y ear :  month :  date : 
08. Name of the designation :–––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
 Name of the department :–––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
09. the date on which the appointment  was made to the sri 
Lanka animal Production and Health service :–––––––.
i declare that the above particulars are correct and that 
i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium indicated above.Further i am prepared to abide 
by the conditions enacted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations with regard to the conduct of the examination.
10. Examination Fee Rs. :–––––––––––.
 Paying Office :–––––––––––.
 Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
To affix the receipt (keep a Photostat copy of the receipt) 
  
 ––––––––––––,
 signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
commissioner General of Examinations,
through director General, department of animal 
Production & Health,
Forwarded :-
i certify that the candidate whose particulars appear 
above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/ she 
has qualifications to sit for the examination in the medium 
stated  in the application.
*i also certify that the receipt, paying the prescribed 
examination fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate. 
i attest the candidate's signature.
 ––––––––––––––,  
 signature of Head of department 
 and designation.
 (Place the rubber stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
(*may be deleted, fees not been paid)
09–802/2
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.