

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
47
47
wxl 1"533 _ 2008 ckjdß 18 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008’01’18
No. 1,533 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 18, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 50
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 59
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th January 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 11th January, 2008.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
48
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
49
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety
:–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
50
Posts - Vacant
CANCELLATION  OF  THE  INVITATION  FOR  APPLICATIONS
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms
INVITATION for applications for the recruitment of Inquirers (into sudden deaths) under Section 108 of Code of Criminal Procedure Act
No. 15 of 1979.
The invitation for applications in respect of the Inquirer’s (into sudden deaths) Divisions as indicated in the following
paragraphs in the above advertisement published under “Posts/Vacant” in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
No. 1525, dated Friday 23rd November 2007 is hereby cancelled :
MATALE  DISTRICT
Divisional Secretary’ s Inquirer’ s (into Sudden Deaths) Grama Niladhari Division
Division Division
3. Matale Municipal Council, Matale E 350 C
4. Galewela Galewela includes the Grama Niladhari Division of Beligamuwa,
Galewela, Dammunumulla, Walaswewa, Nabadagahawatta,
Nalakirigama
GALLE  DISTRICT
Divisional Secretary’ s Inquirer’ s (into Sudden Deaths) Grama Niladhari Division
Division Division
4. Yakkalamulla Thellambura 176A, 176D, 177, 177A, 177B, 177 C, 177 D, 177 E,
177 F, 178 A, 179, 179 A, 179 B, 179 C, 179 E.
PUTTALAM DISTRICT
Divisional Secretary’ s Inquirer’ s (into Sudden Deaths) Grama Niladhari Division
Division Division
2. Anamaduwa Karambepattuwa 651, 651 A, 652, 652 A, 652 B, 653, 653 A,
653 B, 653 C, 653 D, 655, 655 A
S
UHADA  K. GAMALATH ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms.
At the Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms,
Colomobo 12,
On 21 day of December, 2007.
01-509

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
51
MINISTRY  OF   ENVIRONMENT  &  NATURAL
RESOURCES
Calling of applications  for  enlisting of  senior citizens
retired from  the public  sector for  voluntary service in
conservation of  Environment and  Natural Resources
THE  conservation  of the  environment and the  management  of
natural resources have  become major challenges to state agencies
which  have  limited staff and  resources. The government has
decided to implement a programme based on a novel concept aiming
at obtaining the services of senior citizens of Sri Lanka  who have
retired from  the public service and are  willing to offer  their
knowledge and experience on voluntary basis  to the difficult  task
of conservation of natural resources  and  prevention of the
environmental pollution. The  service is expected  from those who
do not  expect any  financial benefit  and  who are free from  other
obligations.  Accordingly,  applications are hereby  invited from
persons who have  retired from the  services  of  the  Government,
Semi-Government and the  statutory  institutions  for the  aforesaid
voluntary services.
Qualifications : Applicants,
1. Should be persons retired  from  the  public service, Semi –
government  and  statutory  institutions  and,
2. Should  be  nature  loving persons  who have  a commitment
to conservation of the  environment  & natural resources.
Basis on which  services are  obtained :
1. The  service should  be purely  on   honorary basic and as
such no payment will be  made.
2. The selected  senior citizens will be issued  with  indentity
cards by the Ministry.
Subject  areas for  which services are  required :
Forest Conservation and supply of Timber.— To act  as
promoters to obtain the  cooperation  of the  public for the
conservation of  forests and  establishment of forest plantations  on
private lands; To monitor implementation of conditions which  have
been  imposed  to minimize the adverse impacts on the  environment
in implementing various development  activities in forest areas. To
obtain advisory services to promote marketing  & research  in the
timber sector.
Wildlife  Conservation.— Coordination   of the participation of
the  general public in constructing  access and interior roads in the
national parks, regular maintenance of such  roads; rehabilitate  tanks
and reservoirs located within the parks to supply water for  wild
animals  in dry seasons  and minimize the human – elephant conflict.
Environment Protection.— To get the participation  of the public
in a  programme to be implemented at urban  and rural levels to
resolve environmental issues and to get  the public  participation in
the  awareness programmes on environmental education at local
levels.
Marine  Pollution  Prevention.— To provide advice on reduction
of waste oil  releases from  naval vessels, and  conservation of
marine environment when oil explorations and  mining
activities  are carried  out and  contribute to awareness creation
programmes.
 Geological Surveys and  Mining.— To obtain the assistance in
conducting multifaceted activities in geological surveys, explorations
and geo – physical  surveys; surface & under  - ground mining
activities and  rehabilitation of  the mining  sector ; management of
minerals,  amendment of Acts and  laws, preparation of  projects &
corporate plans; remote sensing and maintenance of  geological
information systems.
Method of Applications.— The duly completed applications
should  be  sent  by registered post  to reach ‘Secretary, Ministry of
Environment & Natural Resources, No. 82, “Sampathpaya”
Rajamalwatta  Road, Battaramulla on or  before 08.02.2008. The
words “Services of the  Senior Citizens” should  be mentioned on
the  left –hand  corner of the  envelope.
01-576
————————
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
Lady officer Cadet Vacancies
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Lady
Officer Cadets in the Administrative Regiment Branch.
2. Applications are invited from female candidates who possess
the qualifications given below:-
(a) Bsc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant
Qualifications(Accredited by the University of Kelaniya).
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L Examination with
Four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
Language in one sitting(additional and optional subjects not
considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the
GCE (A/L) Examination in Physical/Bio Science/Commerce
Streams(as applicable) in one sitting.
(b) Other Entrant Qualifications.— A minimum of Six passes
at the GCE (O/L) examination with four credits including
credit passes in English language, Mathematics, Science and
an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in one
sitting(additional and optional subjects not considered) and
ordinary passes in Two subjects at the GCE (A/L)
examination in Physical/Bio Science/Commerce/Arts
Streams(as applicable) in one sitting.
3. Other Requirements.— Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
52
a. Notionality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
b. Age : Not less than 18 years and not
more than 22 years as at 15th April
2008.
c. Height : 5’ 4" and above
d. Weight : BMI = W eight (Kg) < 25
Height (m)2
e. Vision Colour Standard : CP2
f. Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6
(without spectacles)
g. Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried. No
Cadet will be permitted to marry
whilst under training and for a
further period of one (01) year
from the date of Commissioning.
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidated who do not fulfill the requirement
of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the
height and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height and
vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification
and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. Any
candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may
at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered
even though she may not have the requisite height provided she
possesses the requisite academic and professional qualificaions.
6. Conditions of Service :
a. The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as a cadet
on a regular engagement in the same manner as for other
ranks and will undergo a Basic Combat Training Course. On
successful completion of the branch training, the status
allocated on her enlistment as an other rank will lapse and
will receive a permanent commisison in the rank of Pilot
Officer.
b. Cadets will be required to undergo training at a place in Sri
lanka or abroad as decided by the Commander of the Air
Force in consultation with the Ministry of Defence.
c. During the period of training as cadets and thereafter,
personnel will be subject to Air Force Law.
d. Every cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, equipment
and medical facilities.
e. During the period of training, a cadet will be accommodated
in an Air Force Mess and will be provided with food.
f. In the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating her candidature
for a commission during training, the parent or guardian will
be required to refund to the Republic of  Sri Lanka all expenses
incurred up to that time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on
account of such cadet.
g. If at any time during her course a cadet is reported by the
authorities as being unsuitable for reaons of misconduct or
due to causes within her control to qualify for a commission,
her parent or guardian will be required to refund to the Sri
Lanka Air Force all expenses incurred on her training and will
be required to enter into a bond to this effet with the
Commander of the Air Force acting on behalf of the
Government of Sri Lanka.
h. Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in
cage 26 of the application form in respect of sub-paragraphs
(f) and (g) above, and forward them together with the
application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter into
a bond subsequently in this form with the Republic of
Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates as
cadets.
j. Candidates who possess the requirement as per para 2 and 3
will be called for the Preliminary Inteview and if successful
will be called for the Officer Quality Tests. Candidates who
pass the Officer Quality Tests will be called for Medical
Examinations (all candidates selected will be medically
Examined under Sri Lanka Air Force arrangements).
Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be
called for the Final Interview. The required number of
candidates per branch will be selected according to merit at
these inerview and tests.
k. A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. She
is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance
and batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
l. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable to public
servants.
m. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.’
n. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
7. Official Language Requirements.— The selected candidates
will be required to comply with any rules already made or may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the
Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the
provisions the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances.-
a. Consolidated pay rate : The scale of consolidated pay
applicable to officer cadets and commissioned ranks shall
be as follows :

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
53
Officer Cadet - Rs. 180,240 p. a.
Pilot Officer - Rs. 211,800 p.a
Flying Officer - Rs. 275,220 – 34 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p.a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 – 28 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p.a.
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620 – 24 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p.a.
Wing Commander -Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 = Rs. 551,700 p.a.
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060–18 x 12,600 = Rs. 667,860 p.a.
b. Other Allowances:-
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 2,125/- per month
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250/- per month after five
years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600/- per month
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 2,400/- per month for those
serving in operational areas.
(5) Enhanced allowance Rs. 3,000/- per month for those
serving in operational areas (Rs. 100/- will be paid for
each working day at only Jaffna Peninsula)
(6) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255/- per month.
(7) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out)
(8) Ration allowance Rs. 7,233.23 per month (if permitted
to live out)
(9) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(10) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse & children)
(11) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(12) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(13)Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable)
(14) Married officers permitted to live –out are entitled to
a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of
work within 30 miles radius.
(15) Rent allowances for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain & above Rs. 1,600/- to Rs. 4,250/- per month.
9. Pensions/Gratuities.— Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All Officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
pension (Armed Force) Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension(Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
10. Instructions to Applicants.— (a) Applications should be
submitted in applicant’s own hand writing in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be completed
neatly with as much details as possible. Applications should be
forwarded under registered cover to “Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri
Lanka Air Force, Ekala ,Kotugoda” so as to reach her not later than
1200 noon on 29th January, 2008. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked “Application for Lady Officer
cadetship in Administrative Regiment Branch”. Applications
received after the closing date and not in accordance with the
requirements of this notification and not in registered post mail will
not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their applications
through their Heads of Department/Corporations/Boards/Civil
Establishments and should bear a certificate to the effect that the
candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents when summoned for interviews or when called
upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued
for the purpose of the education code will not be
accepted)
(2) Certificates in support of the educational qualifications.
(3) Certificates fo trade/technical training and/or experience
(if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should
be from the Principal of the last school attended and the
other from a responsible person who has the know how
of the applicant for more than two years or from the
present employer (if employed)
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc;
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents
when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents should be
attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals
of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after selection.
12. Selection Interviews etc:-
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates
so selected will be required to undergo tests as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The
final selection will then be made after an interview of
those selected candidates by a selection board appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
Traveling or other expenses will not be paid in this
respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview she is to produce her National Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
54
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air
Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving her testimonial. Any form of canvassing
of attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate
will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
WDRMJ G
OONETILEKE ,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR LADY OFFICER CADET IN THE
ADMINISTRATIVE REGIMENT BARNCH OF THE
SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
1. Nationality: ————.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration and if latter, quote number and date  of Certificate)
2. Full Name(As per the National Identity Card) : ————.
3. National Identity Card Number : ————.
4. Permanent address : ————.
5. Postal address : ————.
6. Date of Birth : ————.
(Age as at 15
th April 2008) Years: ———, Months : ——,
Days : ———.
7. Height : ————,  ————.
8. Nearest Police Station to permanent Address : ————.
9. District : ————.
10. Electorate : ————.
11. G. S. Division : ————.
12. Telephone Number : ————.
13. Married or Single : ————.
14. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained : ————.
Name of Type of Year of Subjects
School/ examination examination passed
University (including
 grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Other
15. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University:-
(if applicable)
Name and address Nature of Period of service
of employer employment
From  To
16. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Place of Birth Occupation Present address
Father
Mother
17. Any special qualification for the post:
18. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of
teams and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved)
19. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.)
20. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization.
21. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or
any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications:
22. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :
23. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation(including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by
the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment:-
24. Particulars of testimonials:
Name Designation Postal Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for Commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette, of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
———————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :——————————.
26.Declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the
applicant:
(a) I am the Parent/Guardian of ………………………………
who is an applicant for a Cadetship in the Sri Lanka Air
Force and who has signed the declaration in cage 25 of the
form of application above.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
55
(b) I hereby undertake to  be responsible in the event above
named applicant being selected for a course of training for
the following.
(i) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of
the above named applicant voluntarily terminating her
candidature for a Commission during her period of
training all expenses incurred up to that time by the
Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such applicant.
(ii) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of
the above named applicant reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable (for reasons of misconduct or due to
causes within her own control) for the issue of a
Commission all the expenses incurred on her account
by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
——————,
Signature of Parent/Guardian.
Date :——————.
Name : ………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Address :……………………………………………………………
——————,
(Signature of First Witness).
Date :——————.
Name : ………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Address :……………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………
—————————————,
(Signature of Second Witness).
Date :——————.
Name : ………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Address :……………………………………………………………
01-528
————————
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
Officer Cadet Vacancies
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Officer
Cadets in the following branches :
(a) General Duties Pilot Branch
(b) Equipment Branch
(c) Administrative Branch
(d) Administrative Regiment Branch
(e) Operations Air Branch
(f) Air Field Construction Branch
2. Applications are invited from male candidates who possess
the qualifications given below:-
(a) BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant Qualifications
(Accredited by the University of Kelaniya)
General Duties Pilot/Equipment/Administrative/
Administrative Regiment and Operations Air Branches
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination
with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects not
considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the
GCE A/L examination in Physical/Bio Science/Commerce
Streams (as applicable) in one sitting.
(b) National Diploma (Technology/Engineering/Engineering
Science) Entrant Qualifications
Air Field Construction Branch
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination
with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects not
considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the
GCE A/L examination in the Physical Science Stream in one
sitting.
(c) Other Entrant Qualifications
General Duties Pilot/Equipment/Administrative/
Administrative Regiment and Operations Air Branches
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination with four
credits including credit passes in English language, Mathematics,
Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting
(additional and optional subjects not considered) and ordinary passes
in two subjects at the GCE A/L examination in Physical/Bio Science/
Commerce Streams (as applicable) in one sitting. Students of the
Arts Stream with a minimum of two ordinary passes at the GCE A/
L examination are also eligible to apply for the Administrative
Regiment Branch.
3. Other Requirements.— Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force.
(a) nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Age : Not less than 18 years and not
more than 22 years as at 15th
April, 2008
(c) Height : 5' 6" and above
(d) Weight : BMI =
 W eight (Kg) < 25
Height (m)2
(e) Chest : 32" (Minimum)
(f) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6
(without spectacles)
(h) Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried. No
Cadet will be permitted to marry
whilst under training and for a
further period of one (01) year
from the date of Commissioning.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
56
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the requirement
of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the
height and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height and
vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification
and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. Any
candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may
at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered
even though he may not have the requisite height provided he
possesses the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
6. Conditions of Service :
(a) The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as a
cadet on a regular engagement in the same manner as for
other ranks and will undergo a Basic Combat Training
Course. On successful completion of training, the duration
of which will depend on the branch, the status allocated
on his enlistment as an other rank will lapse and will
receive a permanent commission in the rank of Pilot Officer.
(b) Cadets will be required to undergo training at a place in Sri
Lanka or Abroad as decided by the Commander of the Air
Force in consultation with the Ministry of Defence.
(c) During the period of training as cadets and thereafter,
personnel will be subject to Air Force Law.
(d) Every cadet will be provided all items of uniforms,
equipment and medical facilities.
(e) During the period of training, a cadet will be accommodated
in an Air Force Mess and will be provided with food.
(f) In the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating his
candidature for a commission during training, the parent
or guardian will be required to refund to the Republic of
Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the
Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such cadet.
(g) If at any time during his course a cadet is reported by the
authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct
or due to causes within his control to quality for a
commission, his parent or guardian will be required to
refund to the Sri Lanka Air Force all expenses incurred on
his training and will be required to enter into a bond to this
effect with the Commander of the Air Force acting on
behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage
26 of the application form in respect of sub paragraphs (f)
& (g) above, and forward them together with the
application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter in
to a bond subsequently in this form with the Republic of
Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates as
cadets.
(j) Candidates who possess the requirement as per para 2
and 3 will be called for the Preliminary Interview and if
successfull will be called for the Officer Quality Tests.
Candidates who pass the Officer Quality Tests will be
called for Medical Examinations (all candidates selected
will be medically examined under Sri Lanka Air Force
arrangements) and if applicable Flying Aptitude Tests.
Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be
called for the Final Interview. The required number of
candidates per branch will be selected according to merit
at these interviews and tests.
(k) A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He
is provided with furnished accomodation and food.
Batman service will be provided. A single officer’s ration
allowance and batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
(l) A married officer may be provided with a married quarters
if available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable to
public servants.
(m ) All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in
any part of the world at any time.
(n) All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
7. Official Language Requirements.— The selected candidates
will be required to comply with any rules already made or may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the
Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the
provisions the Official Language Act No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances :
(a)Consolidated pay rate : The scale of consolidated pay
applicable to officer cadets and commissioned ranks shall
be as follows:
Officer Cadet - Rs. 180,240 p. a
Pilot Officer - Rs. 211,800 p. a
Flying Officer - Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Squadron Leader -Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Wing Commander- Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 = Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060 - 18 x 12,600 = Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b)Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 2,125 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 2,400 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
(5) Enhanced allowance Rs. 3,000 per month for those
serving in operational areas (Rs. 100 will be paid for
each working day at only Jaffna Peninsula)
(6) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
57
(7) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(8) Ration allowance Rs. 7233.23 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(9) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month)
(10) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse & children)
(11) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(12) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(13)Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable)
(14) Married officers permitted to live - out are entitled to
a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of
work within 30 miles radius.
(15)Flying pay for those in the General Duties Pilot
Branch.
(16) Rent allowances for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarters. Pilot officer to
Group Captain and above R. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per
month.
9. Pensions/Gratuities:– Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All Officers are contributors to the Widow’s and Orphan’s
Pension (Armed Force) Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per
Widow’s and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
10. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant’s own
hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All
cages of the application should be completed neatly with
as much details as possible. Applications should be
forwarded under registered cover to : “Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 29th January 2008.
The envelope enclosing the application should be marked
“Application for Cadetship in ................. Branch”
Applications received after the closing date and not in
accordance with the requirements of this notification and
not in registered post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of
the following documents when summoned for interviews
or when called upon to do so :-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (certificate issued
for the purpose of the education code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificates in support of the educational
qualifications required for the branch applied for.
(3) Certificates of trade/technical training and/or
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized
institution.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these
should be from the Principal of the last school
attended and the other from a responsible person
who has the know how of the applicant for more
than two years or from the present employer (if
employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc;
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents
when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents should be
attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any
originals of certificates if enclosed with the application
form.
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after selection.
12. Selection Interviews etc.:-
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates
so selected will be required to undergo tests as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview of those
selected candidates by a selection board appointed by
the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
Traveling or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he is to produce his National Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will
result in disqualification of such candidates.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
WDRMJ G
OONETILEKE ,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
58
Application for Officer Cadet in the .................... Branch of
the Sri Lanka Air Force
1. Nationality: ————.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration and if latter, quote number and date Certificate)
2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) : ————.
3. National Identity Card Number : ————.
4. Permanent address : ————.
5. Postal address : ————.
6. Date of Birth : ————.
(Age as at 15
th April 2008)
Years: ———, Months : ——, Days : ———.
7. Height : ————.
8. Nearest Police Station to permanent Address : ————.
9. District : ————.
10. Electorate : ————.
11. G. S. Division : ————.
12. Telephone Number : ————.
13. Married or Single : ————.
14. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Type of Year of Subjects
School/ examination examination passed
University (including
 grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Other
15. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University:-
(if applicable)
Name and address Nature of Period of service
of employer employment
From  To
16. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Place of Birth Occupation Present Address
Father
Mother
17. Any special qualification for the post : ————.
18. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of
teams and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) : ————.
19. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) : —–—.
20. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization : ————.
21. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or
any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications : ————.
22. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details : ————.
23. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in
the Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central
Bank, National Bank, Universities Joint Stock Companies
controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of
employment : ————.
24. Particulars of Testimonials :-
Name Designation Postal Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :-
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for Commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
———————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :——————————.
26. Declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the
applicant :
(a) I am the Parent/Guardian of …………………… who is an
applicant for a Cadetship in the Sri Lanka Air Force and
who has signed the declaration in cage 25 of the form of
application above.
(b) I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above
named applicant being selected for a course of training for
the following.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’18
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.01.2008
59
(i) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of
the above named applicant voluntarily terminating
his candidature for a Commission during his
period of training all expenses incurred upto that time
by the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such
applicant.
(ii) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of
the above named applicant reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable (for reasons of misconduct or due to
causes within his own control) for the issue of a
Commission all the expenses incurred on his account
by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
——————,
Signature of Parent/Guardian.
Date :——————.
Name : ………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Address :……………………………………………………………
——————.
(Signature of First Witness)
Date :——————.
Name : ………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Address :……………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………
—————————————,
(Signature of Second Witness)
Date :——————.
Name : ………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Address :……………………………………………………………
01 - 527
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
PROMOTION  OF  MINOR  EMPLOYEES  OF  THE
PUBLIC  SERVICE  TO  CLASS III  OF  THE  PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS’  SERVICE  — 2006
IT is related to the above said examination notice published in the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1499
of 25th May, 2007.
02. Para No. (iv) will be included next to the para No. (iii) of
“the para 8.0 – eligibility” in the examination notice.
“It is not appropriate to the minor employees who are appointed
permanently in the service on 26th November, 2001 under the
educational qualification referred in the above said para (iii)”
03. Moreover, I inform that the closing date for the application,
referred in para “9.0 – (iii)” in the notice, will be extended until 8th
February, 2008 and the applicants, who have already applied, do
not need to apply again.
A. N
OBERT ,
Director General of Combined Services.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
27th December, 2007.
01-575
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.