

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
FINANCE  ACT,  No.  35  OF  2018
 Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 01st of November, 2018]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 28.00 Postage : Rs. 35.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 02, 2018
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
Short title.
[Certified on 01st of November, 2018]
L.D.—O. 22/2017
A
N ACT TO AMEND THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 25 OF 2003, THE FINANCE
ACT, NO. 5 OF 2005, THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 12 OF 2012, THE
FINANCE ACT, NO. 16 OF 1995, AND THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 10 OF
2015;  AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF LUXURY TAX ON
MOTOR VEHICLES, VEHICLE ENTITLEMENT LEVY, ANNUAL COMPANY
REGISTRATION LEVY, DEBT REPAYMENT LEVY, CARBON TAX,
CELLULAR TOWER LEVY AND MOBILE SHORT MESSAGE SERVICE
LEVY; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND
INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–
1. This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No. 35 of
2018.
PART  I
AMENDMENT OF PART II OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 25 OF 2003
2. Part II (Imposition of Tourism Development Levy)
of the Finance Act, No. 25 of 2003 (hereinafter in this Part
referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended
in section 11—
(1) by the renumbering of section 11 as subsection (1)
thereof;
(2) in the second proviso of renumbered subsection
(1) by the substitution for the words “rupees three
million” of the words “rupees three million, for the
period ending on December 31, 2018.”;
Amendment of
section 11 of
Act, No. 25 of
2003.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
(3) by the insertion immediately after the second
proviso to that subsection of the following new
proviso:—
“Provided further, from and after January 1,
2019, such levy shall be charged from any
institution having an annual turnover of not
exceeding rupees twelve  million or a quarterly
turnover not exceeding rupees three million at
the rate of  0.5 per centum on such turnover of
such institution.”;
(4) by the insertion immediately after renumbered
subsection (1), of the following new subsection:—
“(2) From and after January 1, 2019, there
shall be levied from every institution licensed
under the Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 a levy of
one per centum  on the turnover of such
institutions in any year, to be called the Tourism
Development Levy:
Provided however, such levy shall not be
charged on the commission carried on the sale of
airline tickets from Travel Agents including
General Sales Agents licensed under the Tourism
Act, No. 38 of 2005:
Provided further, such levy shall be charged
from any institution having an annual turnover
of not exceeding rupees twelve million or a
quarterly turnover not exceeding three million,
at the rate of 0.5 per centum on such turnover of
such institution.”; and
(5) by the repeal of  the marginal note of that section
and the substitution therefor of the following:—
“Imposition of Levy on institutions, licensed under
Tourism Development Act and Tourism Act”.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
Amendment of
section 12 of the
principal
enactment.
3. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended  by the repeal of  subsection (2) thereof and the
substitution therefor, of the following subsections:—
“(2) The Director General of the Ceylon Tourist
Board shall—
(a) retain the levy so collected under subsection
(1), other than the levy collected from the
online travel agents licensed under the
Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005 and the levy
collected at the rate of 0.5 per centum under
section11; and
(b) remit the levy collected from the online
travel agents licensed under the Tourism
Act, No. 38 of 2005 and the levy collected
at the rate of 0.5 per centum ander section11,
to the Cosolidated Fund.
(3) The Director General of the Ceylon Tourist
Board shall furnish such returns in such manner as
may be prescribed in that behalf to the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury, within thirty days of the
date on which such amount is collected.”.
PART  II
AMENDMENT OF PART II OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 5 OF 2005
4. Part II (Imposition of Share Transaction Levy) of the
Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005, is hereby amended in section 7
thereof, by the repeal of paragraph ( b) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraphs:—
“(b) for any period commencing on or after January 1,
2011, but prior to January 1, 2016, at the rate of 0.3
per centum; and
(c) for any period commencing on or after April 1,
2016, at the rate of 0.3 per centum,”.
Amendment of
section 7 of Act,
No. 5 of 2005.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
PART III
AMENDMENT OF PART III OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 5 OF 2005
5. Part III (Imposition of Construction Industry
Guarantee Fund Levy) of the Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
(hereinafter in this Part referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (1) of section
13, by the substitution for the words “for every year
thereafter,” of the words and figures “for every year thereafter
until December 31, 2015,”.
6. Section 13
A of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1), by the substitution for the words
and figures “any payment on or after April 1, 2009 to any
construction contractor or sub-contractor,” of the words and
figures “any payment on or after April 1, 2009 but prior
to January 1, 2016 to any construction contractor or
sub-contractor,”.
7. The amendments made to the principal enactment
by this Part of this Act, shall be deemed for all purposes to
have come into force on January 1, 2016.
PART IV
A
MENDMENT OF PART IV OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 12 OF 2012
8. Part IV (Exemption from Application of the
provisions of Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235), Exchange
Control Act (Chapter 423) and the Imports and Exports
(Control) Act, No. 1 of 1969) of the Finance Act, No. 12 of
2012, (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (1) of section
18
A thereof, by the substitution for the words “any enterprise
engaged in” of the words “enterprises or certain enterprises
as specified in that Schedule engaged in”.
Amendment of
section 13 of
Act, No. 5 of
2005.
Amendment of
section 13
A of
the principal
enactment.
Retrospective
effect.
Amendment of
section 18
A of
Act, No. 12 of
2012.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
9. The Schedule to the principal enactment is hereby
amended, by the substitution for item 1 thereof, of the
following item:—
“1. Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 (other than
an enterprise which carries out activities which are
treated as zero rated activities within the meaning
of the provisions of Value Added Tax Act and for
which the provisions of paragraph (e) of subsection
(2) of section 2 of the said Act are applicable on
local purchase of goods or services under Simplified
Value Added Tax Scheme referred to in that
paragraph);”.
10. The amendments made to the principal enactment
by this Part of this Act shall come into operation on the date
of commencement of this Act.
PART V
A
MENDMENT OF PART II OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 16 OF 1995
11. The Finance Act, No. 16 of 1995 (hereinafter in this
Part, referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of section 3 thereof, by the
substitution for the words “every luxury motor vehicle
(other than a semi- luxury dual purpose motor vehicle or a
wagon)-” of the words and figures “every luxury motor
vehicle (other than a semi-luxury dual purpose motor vehicle
or a wagon) of which the first year of registration falls prior
to January 1, 2019-”.
12. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for
the words “every semi-luxury motor vehicle (other than a
semi-luxury dual purpose motor vehicle or a wagon)-”
of the words and figures “every semi-luxury motor vehicle
(other than a semi-luxury dual purpose motor vehicle or a
wagon) of which the first year of registration falls prior to
January 1, 2019-”.
Amendment of
the Schedule to
the principal
enactment.
Application of
the provisions of
this part.
Amendment of
section 3 of Act,
No. 16 of 1995.
Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
13. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “every semi-luxury dual purpose motor vehicle (other
than a  wagon)-” of the words and figures “every semi-luxury
dual purpose motor vehicle (other than a wagon) of which the
first year of registration falls prior to January 1, 2019.”.
14. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for
the words “any specified motor vehicle” of the words and
figures “any specified motor vehicle, of which the payment
due date of the levy falls prior to January 1, 2019,”.
15. Section 8
A of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “any specified
motor vehicle” of the words and figures “any specified motor
vehicle, of which the payment due date of the levy falls
prior to January 1, 2019,”.
16. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 8A and shall have effect as section
8B of the principal enactment:—
8B. (1) Every Divisional Secretary who
renews an annual revenue licence in respect of
any specified motor vehicle of which the
payment due date of the levy falls on or after
January 1, 2019, shall, at the time of renewing
the annual revenue licence, collect from the
registered owner of such motor vehicle an
amount equal to such levy and remit the
amount so collected to the Commissioner-
General who shall credit the same to the
Consolidated Fund.
Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 8
A of
the principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 8
B in the
principal
enactment.
“Levy to be
collected at
the time of
renewal of
registration.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
(2) Every Divisional Secretary who collects
the levy under subsection (1) shall send a
monthly report to the Commissioner-General
in such form and containing such particulars
as may be specified by the Commissioner-
General in respect of the levy so collected and
remitted to the Consolidated Fund.
(3) Every Divisional Secretary who collects
the levy in accordance with the provisions of
subsection (1), shall duly acknowledge the
receipt of the levy so collected, in such manner
as may be specified by the Commissioner-
General.
(4) Any levy so collected by any Divisional
Secretary in accordance with the provisions of
subsection (1), shall be deemed to have been
paid by such registered owner to the
Commissioner-General on the date on which
such Divisional Secretary collected such
levy.”.
PART VI
A
MENDMENT OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 10 OF 2015
17. Part VII (Mansion Tax) of the  Finance Act, No. 10
of 2015 (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby repealed.
18. Part IX (Motor Vehicle Importers Licence Fee) of
the principal enactment is hereby repealed, with effect from
January 1, 2016.
Repeal of
Part VII of Act,
No. 10 of 2015.
Repeal of Part
IX of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
PART VII
IMPOSITION OF LUXURY TAX ON MOTOR VEHICLES
19. There shall be charged, a tax to be called the
“Luxury Tax” (hereinafter in this Part referred to as “the
tax”) on every specified motor vehicle of which the first
year of registration falls on or after the date, and at the rates,
as may be prescribed by regulations made under this Act.
20. (1) The tax payable under section 19 on any
specified motor vehicle imported into Sri Lanka on or after
the date prescribed under section19, shall be paid to the
Director-General of Customs, by the person importing such
vehicle, at the time of removing the vehicle from Sri Lanka
customs, together with the import duties payable in respect
of such vehicle in  terms of any written law.
(2) The provisions of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter
235) applicable for the collection and recovery of any
Customs Duty, shall, mutatis mutandis , apply for the
collection and recovery of the tax under this section.
21. (1) The tax payable under section 19 on any
specified motor vehicle imported into Sri Lanka prior to the
date prescribed under section 19, or assembled in Sri Lanka
shall be paid by the registered owner of such vehicle to the
Commissioner-General at the time of issuing the first
Certificate of Registration in respect of such vehicle.
(2) The Commissioner-General shall remit the tax
collected under subsection (1) to the Consolidated fund.
22. Nothing in this Part shall apply to any specified
motor vehicle providing services to a Diplomatic Mission
of any State within the meaning of the Diplomatic Privileges
Act, No. 9 of 1996 or to an International, Multilateral or
Bilateral Organization recognized in terms of that Act.
Certain vehicles
to be exempted
from the
payment of the
tax.
Imposition of
Luxury Tax on
motor vehicles.
Collection of
tax at the time
of importation.
Collection of tax
at the time of
registration.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
23. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires–
“Commissioner General” means the Commissioner
General of Motor Trafic appointed under the
Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203);
“Director- General of Customs” means the Director-
General of Customs appointed under section
2 of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235);
“specified motor vehicle” means any assembled or
unassembled diesel motor vehicle of which
the cylinder capacity exceeds 2,300 CC or a
petrol motor vehicle of which the cylinder
capacity exceeds 1,800 CC or an electric
vehicle of which motor power of the engine
exceeds 200 Kw, but shall not include a dual
purpose petrol motor vehicle the cylinder
capacity of which does not exceed 2,200 CC,
dual purpose electric motor vehicle, a van, a
single cab or a wagon.
PART VIII
IMPOSITION OF VEHICLE ENTITLEMENT LEVY
24. There shall be charged with effect from January 1,
2016, a levy to be called the “Vehicle Entitlement Levy”
(hereinafter in this Part referred to as “the levy”) from every
importer of motor vehicles, who imports a motor vehicle
specified in the First Schedule hereto, at the respective rates
set out in that Schedule for each category of vehicle identified
under the harmonized commodity description and coding
system numbers:
Provided however, an importer of vehicle who imports
such vehicle in unassembled form shall not be liable to pay
the levy.
Interpretation.
Imposition of
Vehicle
Entitlement
Levy.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
25. (1) The Levy payable for any period commencing
on January 1, 2016 but ending prior to January 1, 2019 shall
have been collected by the bank at which the Letter of Credit
in respect of the vehicle imported is opened, at the time of
opening such Letter of Credit and shall be remitted in the
manner specified in subsection (2) by such bank to the
Commissioner-General.
(2) The levy collected by the bank within the period
Commencing–
(a) on the 1st day of any month to the 15th day of that
month shall have been remitted on or before the
end of that month; and
(b) on the 16th day of any month to the end of that
month shall have been remitted on or before the
15th day of the succeeding month,
to the Commissioner-General.
(3) Every bank which remit the levy in terms of the
preceding provisions of this section shall, submit a statement
setting out the following, to the Commissioner-General:—
(a) the name and address of each importer relating to
each remittance;
(b) category of the vehicle;
(c) value of the Letter of Credit;
(d) amount collected; and
(e) any other details as may be required by the
Commissioner-General, from time to time.
Collecting the
levy for the
period
commencing
from January 1,
2016 to January
1, 2019.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
(4) Any bank which collects the levy from any importer
shall issue a copy of the Letter of Credit to such importer
certifying that the levy has been paid. Any vehicle imported
on a Letter of Credit opened on or after January 1, 2016
shall not be allowed to be removed from the Sri Lanka
Customs, unless the importer submits the copy of the Letter
of Credit which is endorsed by the bank.
(5) In any event where the Letter of Credit is cancelled
and a refund being requested by the importer who has paid
the levy on such Letter of Credit, prior to the remittance of
such levy to the Commissioner-General, the bank may refund
the levy so paid.
26. (1) The levy payable under section 24 for any period
commencing on or after January 1, 2019, on any vehicle in
respect of which the Letter of Criedit has been opened on or
after January 1, 2019 and imported into Sri Lanka, shall be
paid by the importer of the vehicle to the Director-General
of Customs, at the time of removing the vehicle from Sri
Lanka Customs together with the import duties payable in
respect of such vehicle in terms of any written law.
(2) Upon payment of the levy, the Director-General of
Customs shall issue a certificate called “Vehicle Entitlement
Certificate” in the form as may be prescribed, by regulations
made under this Act.
(3) The provisions of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter
235) which apply for the collection and recovery of any
customs duty, shall, mutatis mutandis , apply for the
collection and recovery of the levy under this Part.
Collecting the
levy for any
period
commencing on
or after
January1, 2019.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
27. Nothing in this Part shall apply to any vehicle
imported to Sri Lanka for providing services to a Diplomatic
Mission of any State within the meaning of the Diplomatic
Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996 or to an International,
Multilateral or Bilateral Organization recognized in terms
of that Act.
28. Where a levy of such amount under section 24 has
been collected by a bank on behalf of the Commissioner
General, in terms of this Part of this Act, during the period
commencing on January 1, 2016, and ending on the date of
the commencement of this Act, from any person who imports
a motor vehicle, such collection shall be deemed for all
purposes to have been, validly made, and the bank and the
Commissioner General are hereby indemnified against all
action civil or criminal, in respect of such collection.
 29. The Parliament may by resolution amend the rates
of the levy payable under section 24 and set out in the First
Schedule hereto.
30. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires–
“bank” means a licensed commercial bank within
the meaning of the Banking Act, No. 30  of
1988;
“Commissioner-General”means the Commissioner
General of Inland Revenue appointed or
deemed to be appointed under the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;
“Director General of Customs” means the Director
General of Customs appointed under section
2 of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235).
Amendment of
the rates of the
levy by
resolution of
Parliament.
Interpretation.
Validation.
Certain vehicles
to be exempted
from the
payment of the
levy.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
PART IX
ANNUAL COMPANY REGISTRATION LEVY
31. (1) There shall be charged and levied for the year
commencing on January 1, 2016, and ending on December
31, 2016  from every company incorporated or registered
under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, a levy to be called
“Annual Company Registration Levy” (hereinafter in this
Part reffered to as “the levy”) at the respective rates as
specified for each category of Company in the Second
Schedule:
 Provided however, the provisions of this section shall
not apply to-
(a) an off-shore company; and
(b) a company limited by guarantee.
(2) The levy shall be collected by the Registrar of
Companies from every relevant company on or before
December 31, 2019 and be remitted to the Consolidated
Fund.
(3) The provisions which may be necessary for the
implementation of the provisions of this Part shall be
prescribed by regulations made under this Act.
32. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
provisions of section 31, any company which is incorporated
under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, within the period
commencing on January 1, 2016 and ending on December
31, 2016 shall not be liable to pay the levy.
Imposition of
Annual
Company
Registration
Levy.
Certain
companies to be
exempted from
payment of the
levy.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
33. (1) Any company which fails to pay the levy as
provided for in section 31, shall be deemed to be a defaulter
under this Act.
(2) The provisions of section 34 shall apply to, and in
ralation to, the prosecution against any such defaulter and
for the recovery of such levy.
34. (1) Where the amount of the levy or part thereof is
in default, the Registrar of Companies shall issue a certificate
containing particulars of the amount in default and the name
and address of the company, to the Magistrate having
jurisdiction over such place.
(2) The Magistrate shall thereupon summon the defaulter
to show cause why proceedings for the recovery of the
amount of the levy in default shall not be taken against him.
(3) If sufficient cause is not shown by the defaulter, the
amount of the levy in default shall be recovered by Order of
the Magistrate, as if it was a fine imposed by the Magistrate
on such defaulter, and when recovered be remmitted to the
Registrar of Companies to be credited to the Consolidated
Fund.
35. Where a levy of such amount under section 31 has
been collected for the period specified in that section by the
Registrar of Companies, in terms of this Part of this Act,
during the period commencing on January 1, 2016, and
ending on the date of the commencement of this Act, from
any company incorporated or registered under the Companies
Act, No. 7 of 2007, such collection shall be deemed for all
purposes to have been, validly made, and the Registrar of
Companies is hereby indemnified aganint all action civil or
Criminal, in respect of such collection.
Recovery of the
Levy in default.
Validation.
Default in
payment of the
levy.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
PART  X
DEBT REPAYMENT LEVY
36. (1) There shall be charged and levied for every
month commencing on October 1, 2018 but ending on
December 31, 2021, from every financial institiution, a levy
of 7 per centum  to be called the “Debt Repayment Levy”
(hereinafter in this Part referred to as “the levy”) on the value
addition attributable to the supply of financial services by
each such institution.
(2) For the purposes of this section the value addition
attributable to the supply of financial services sahll be
calculated based on the provisions specified in section 25
C
of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002.
(3) The amount of the operating profit or loss of the
financial institution considered for calculating the value
addition attribuable to the supply of financial services under
this section, shall be the amount of the profit or loss of such
financial institution prior to deducting the tax payble under
this section, the value Added tax payble under section 25
A
of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 and the Nation
Building Tax payable under paragraph (iii) of subsection
(2) of the Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009.
(4) The levy for every month shall be remitted to the
Commissioner-General, along with a value addition
statement in respect of such remittance on or before the
twentieth day of the month succeeding the relevant month.
(5) A financial institution shall in respect of each financial
year of such financial institution furnish a return in the form
specified by the Commissioner-General within a period of
six months from the end of that financial year.
37. The Minister may, having regard to the economic
development of the country, by Order published in the
Gazette, exempt any transaction of a financial institution
Imposition of
Debt Repayment
Levy.
exemption from
the Default in
payment of the
levy.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
specified in such Order, from the payment of the levy payable
under this Part, subject to such condition as may be specified
in such Order.
38. (1) Where any financial institution, which is liable
to pay the levy under this Part fails to pay the levy as provided
for in section 36, such financial institution shall be deemed
to be a defaulter under this Act.
(2) The provisions of Chapter IX, Chapter XI, Chapter
XII, Chapter XIII, Chapter XIV, Chapter XV, Chapter XVI,
Chapter XVII and Chapter XVIII of the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 24 of 2017 shall, mutatis mutandis , apply to, and in
relation to, any such defaulter.
39. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—
“Commissioner-General” means the Commissioner-
General of Inland Revenue appointed or deemed to
be appointed under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24
of 2017;
“financial institution”means—
(a) a licensed commercial bank or a licensed
specialized bank within the meaning of the
Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;
(b) a finance company licensed under the
Finance Business Act, No. 42 of 2011.
PART  XI
C
ARBON TAX
 40. (1) There shall be levied for every year commencing
from January 1, 2019, from the registered owner of every
motor vehicle specified in the Third Schedule hereto, a tax
to be called the “Carbon Tax” (hereinafter in this Part referred
to as “the tax”) at such rates as may by specified in that
Schedule.
Interpretation.
Imposition of
Carbon Tax.
Default in
payment of the
Levy.

<!-- page 18 -->

17Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
(2) The tax imposed under subsection (1) shall not apply
for any electric vehicle.
41. (1) The registered owner of any relevant vehicle
shall pay the tax for every year, other than for the first year of
registration of such motor vehicle, to the Divisional Secretary,
on or before the due date of renewal of annual registration.
(2) Every Divisional Secretary who collects any amount
in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) shall
duly acknowledge the receipt of the tax so collected  and
remit such amount to the Commissioner-General, in such
manner as may be prescribed.
(3) The provisions which may be necessary for the
implementation of the provisions of this Part and collection
of the tax shall be prescribed by regulations made under this
Act.
42. The Parliament may by resolution amend the rates
of the tax payable under section 40 and set out in the Third
Schedule hereto.
43. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—
“Commissioner-General” means the Commissioner-
General of Motor Traffic appointed under the Motor
Traffic Act (Chapter 203).
PART  XII
C
ELLULAR  TOWER  LEVY
44. (1) There shall be levied for every year commencing
from January 1, 2019, from every mobile telephone operator
who owns a cellular tower, a levy to be called the “Cellular
Tower Levy” (hereinafter in this Part referred to as “the levy”)
of rupees two hundred thousand per annum for each cellular
tower.
Amendment of
the rates of the
tax by resolution
of Parliament.
Interpretation.
Imposition of
Cellular
Tower Levy.
Registered
owner to pay the
tax.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
(2) The levy shall be paid by such mobile telephone
operator, to the Telecommunication Regulatory
Commission (hereinafter in this Part referred to as “the
Commission”) in four equal instalments, respectively as
follows:—
(a) first instalment on or before the fifteenth day of
April of the relevant year;
(b) second instalment on or before the fifteenth day of
July of the relevant year;
(c) third instalment on or before the fifteenth day of
October of the relevant year;
(d)  fourth instalment on or before the fifteenth day of
January of the year succeeding the relevant year.
(3) (a) The levy payable under subsection (1) in respect
of any cellular tower not owned by any mobile telephone
operator, shall be paid by the mobile telephone operator
who uses the cellular tower.
(b) Where the cellular tower is used by more than one
mobile telephone operator, the levy shall be paid by such
mobile telephone operators in equal shares.
(4) The Commission shall remit the amount of the levy so
collected to the Consolidated Fund within fifteen days from
the date of collection.
45. (1) Any mobile telephone operator who fails to pay
the levy as provided for in section 44, shall be deemed to be
a defaulter under this Act.
(2) The Provisions of section 46 shall apply to, and in
relation to the prosecution against any such defaulter and
for the recovery of such levy in default.
Default in
payment of the
levy.

<!-- page 20 -->

19Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
46. (1) Where the amount of the levy or part thereof is
in default, the Commission shall issue a certificate containing
particulars of the amount in default, the name and the address
of the last known place of residence or business of the
defaulter, to the Magistrate having jurisdiction over such
place.
(2)  The Magistrate shall thereupon summon the defaulter
to show cause why proceedings for the recovery of the
amount of the levy in default shall not be taken against him.
(3) If sufficient cause is not shown by the defaulter, the
amount of the levy in default shall by Order of the Magistrate
be recovered as if it was a fine imposed by the Magistrate on
such defaulter and shall when recovered, be remitted to the
Commission to be credited to the Consolidated Fund.
47. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—
“mobile telephone operator” means an operator
licensed under section 17 of the Sri Lanka
Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991;
“cellular tower” means a cellular telephone site where
antennae and electronic communication
equipment are placed;
“Telecommunication Regulatory Commission” means
the Telecommunication Regulatory Commission
of Sri Lanka established under the Sri Lanka
Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991.
PART  XIII
I
MPOSITION OF LEVY ON MOBILE SHORT MESSAGE SERVICES
48. (1) There shall be charged with effect from January
1, 2019, a levy of 25 cents per each mobile short message, on
bulk advertisements sent through mobile short message
services.
Imposition of
levy on mobile
short message
services.
Recovery of the
levy in default.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
(2) The levy imposed under subsection (1), shall be paid
by the advertiser who intends to advertise through the mobile
short message in respect of which the levy is charged.
(3) Regulations shall be made under this Act, specifying
the manner of collection and recovery of the levy and for
making provisions for the implementation of the provisions
of this Part of this Act.
49. In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—
“mobile short message” means a text message which is
sent through mobile phones;
“bulk advertisements” means messages being sent
through mobile phones to group of recipients
for commercial purposes.
PART  XIV
G
ENERAL
50. Where the default in payment of a levy or tax
imposed under this Act is made by a body of persons, if that
body of persons is—
(a) a body corporate, every director and officer
responsible with the management and control of
that body corporate; or
(b) a firm, every partner of that firm; or
(c) a body unincorporated other than a firm, every
officer responsible with the management and
control of that body,
shall be liable to be prosecuted for the recovery of such levy
or tax as provided for in this Act.
51. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of all matters which are required to be prescribed or for which
regulations are authorized to be made under this Act.
Default by body
of persons.
Regulations.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 22 -->

21Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister under
subsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shall
come into operation on the date of its publication or on such
later date as may be specified therein.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Every regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the
date of disapproval but without prejudice to anything duly
done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
52. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
[Section 24]
Category of vehicles identified under the Rate
Harmonized Commodity Description and (Rs.per
Coding System Numbers for custom purposes. vehicle)
1 Trishaws, Tractors and Motorcycles 2,000
2( a) Motor cars and other motor vehicles
principally designed for the transport
of persons other than the vehicles
referred to in item 1 15,000
(b) Crew cabs, double cabs and cargo vans
3 The following vehicles are not covered by the
above items 1 and 2
(a) Special purpose vehicles other 10,000
than those principally designed
for the transport of persons or goods
(b) Carriages for disabled persons,
whether or not motorized or otherwise
mechanically propelled
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
FIRST SCHEDULE

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
[Section 40]
THIRD  SCHEDULE
Category of the Rate (Rs.)
vehicle
Less than 05 5 to 10 Years Over 10 Years
Years
Hybrid 0.25 per cm 3 0.50 per cm 3 1.00 per cm 3
(Petrol/Diesel)
Fuel 0.50 per cm 3 1.00 per cm 3 1.50 per cm 3
(Petrol/Diesel)
Passenger bus Rs. 1,000/- Rs. 2,000/- Rs. 3,000/-
[Section 31]
SECOND  SCHEDULE
Category of Company Rate (Rs. Per annum)
Private Company 30,000/-
Listed Public Company 1,500,000/-
Any other Company 250,000/-

<!-- page 24 -->

23Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “P RAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.