

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1894$3 - 2014 foieïn¾ ui 22 jeks i÷od - 2014'12'22
No. 1894/3  - MONDAY ,  DECEMBER  22,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
NATIONAL   POLICY  ON   THE   PROECTION   AND   CONSERV ATION   OF    WATER    SOURCES,    THEIR
CATCHMENTS    AND   RESERV ATIONS   IN   SRI   LANKA
THE National Policy on “Protection and Conservation of Water Sources, their Catchments and Reservations in Sri Lanka”
prepared by the sub - committee appointed by the Parliamentary Consultative Committee on Land and Land Development
held on 07.02.2013 and approved by the decision dated 20.05.2014 of the Cabinet of Ministers is hereby published for the
information of the General Public.
T. A
SOKA PEIRIS,
Secretary,
Ministry of  Land and Land Development.
Ministry of Land and Land Development,
“Mihikatha Medura”,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, Rajamalwatta Lane,
Battaramulla,
07th January  2015
01. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Water is one of the main natural resources in Sri Lanka and it is the main factor which contributes to the country’s
economic development since the past. Sri Lanka being an agricultural country, the irrigation has had a unique
contribution towards country’s agro economy from history to this date. In spite of that the water resource has
become a prominent source in industry, supply of services, consumption (drinking) as well as recreation activities
and tourism and hydro power generation. The requirement of a new strategic approach on water resources
management in Sri Lanka has been included in the National Development Plans and agendas where the country is
forging ahead towards development though a new economic vision apt for the 21
st century. (Mahinda Chinthanaya:
vision for a New Sri Lanka - A Ten Year Horizon Development Framework 2006-2016, Pages 202-204).
1.2 Sri Lanka is a country with 103 main rivers. Of these river basins, about 20 comes under perennial while the
rest belonging to the category of seasonal rivers. The magnitude of the river basins varied depending on the

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2014
extents which range from 10 to 10000 km2 Geographically, the extent of land belonging to river basins is about
90% of the total land area of Sri Lanka.
1.3 Though there are no large scale natural reservoirs in Sri Lanka, the country is rich with a number of manmade
tanks and an irrigation canal system, some of those tanks had been constructed centuries back and had been
rehabilitated to the present condition. By now, about 14,000 tanks have been spread in Dry Zone areas of
which the extent ranges from 01 to 6500 hectares. However the most of those tanks are less than 300 hectares
in extent.
1.4 The cascade system created by interconnection of several tanks in the Dry Zone area is also an important
component in Sri Lanka’s water resources conservation.
1.5 In addition to the water sources described above, a large number of springs is spread all over the island. For
instances there are about 1544 SUCh water sources in Nuwara Eliya district while 204 in Kandy district 319
in Kurunegala District, 210 in Monaragala district and 288 in Mathale district, have been reported and the
number of water sources identified in the entire island is 3540.
1.6 In addition, the aquifers laying within the inner limestone layers in the dry zone areas of the country are
prominent in Sri Lanka. These aquifers play a major role in fulfilling drinking and agricultural water requirement
of the country.
1.7 In general, but widely considered the definition of the term “Water Sources” contains; not only the rivers,
streams, reservoirs, and their catchments, springs and wet lands but also the glaziers, ice caps, atmospheric
vapor, clouds and Tornados. However, three main components related to conservation and Protection of
water sources in Sri  Lanka have been taken into account when formulating this Policy depending on its
importance.
(a) Micro catchments which include rivers and streams, their reservations and their spouts and flood
plains of the rivers.
(b) Natural or manmade tanks and reservoirs and shallow lakes (villu), their reservations and “immediate
catchments” of those tanks and irrigation canals and their reservations.
(c) Existing underground or aquifers or surface springs or spouts or such sources which are potentially
available for common use and necessary land extent to ensure their existence and protection.
1.8 The contribution of the catchments, source areas and reservations play a vital role in ensuring the
sustainability of the water sources described above. Especially the micro- catchments in high altitudes by
which the rivers are fed, tanks and catchments of reservoirs, reservations of rivers and streams and flood
planes are the sources of water resources of Sri Lanka and also they are the sources that balance the flow
regime and sustainable existence. Considering the utilization pattern of the country’s water resource, it
appears that the protection of the above mentioned sources is a fundamental requirement for the sustainability
of both the surface water bodies and ground water aquifers. For instance the capacity of the shallow
aquifers in Kalpiytiya peninuslar could have fulfilled the drinking water requirement of a large population.
But such waters have been contaminated to a level which could not be purified due to the excess adding of
chemical fertilizer, agro chemicals and insecticides to the soil. The adverse effects on land by population
pressure and the use of land for various complex economic activities are being increased at an alarming rate
day by day, which directly affect not only the existence of the water resources and their reservations but also
the water quality.
1.9 The soil is polluted due to the excess use of chemical fertilizer in agricultural land use and high use of agro
chemicals and pesticides which  resulteted in water pollution. It has already been reported that the water use
for drinking purposes and for agriculture has been disturbed due to the pollution.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2014
1.10 The catchment areas are being rapidly waned as a result of inappropriate constructions by unplanned
clearing of the forest cover in micro catchment areas and improper cultivations. Due to this reason the
annual flow regime of rivers and streams or their capacity reduction, causing a major problem of drinking
water and scarcity of water for agriculture.
1.11 In spite of the above, excavation of soil, clay or sand and also mining in the lands reservation for rivers,
streams and tanks and reservoirs have adversely affected the water resource at a greater extent.
1.12 Furthermore the capacity of the springs and water spouts with common use is being deteriorated and
gradually being destroyed due to misuse of land.
1.13 Today Sri Lanka is badly experiencing the threat of silting in reservoirs which generate hydro power and
supply irrigated water due to the clearance of catchment areas in high altitudes and poor water and soil
conservation practices. For instance 38 percent of the capacity of Rantambe reservoirs has been silted
within 09 years of its construction while Polgolla and Rantambe reservoirs are being silted annually by
2.52% and 6.95% respectively.
1.14 Damages are caused to the water sources as a result of global warming, other climatic changes and the
natural disasters. Accordingly, when formulating future strategies for conservation of water resources, the
attention should be drawn on the instances such  as the increase of the salinity of the ground water in
coastal areas due to rise of sea level and the contamination of drinking water in the coastal areas due to
tsunami.
1.15 Protection, conservation and sustainable existence of water sources, their reservations and catchments
grant a great support not only to the country's socio-economic development but also to maintain the
environment equilibrium and protect the bio diversity.
02.  STRATEGIES SO FAR PRACTICED IN CONSERVING AND PROTECTING W ATER SOURCES.
2.1 Each and every successive government before and after independence had introduced various kinds of policies
and laws pertaining to the conservation of Sri Lanka’s water sources. National Policy on Watershed Management,
National Land Use Policy, National Forest Policy, and National Environment Policy are some of such prominent
policies.
2.2 In the laws passed since the year 1930, the laws pertaining to the water sources conservation have been included
under various sectors namely land development, water and forest conservation and soil conservation etc. It
appears that by now, the matters related to the water sources conservation is included in about 40 various
legislations. However their implementation is in a lower stage which has also been affected by the lack of resources
as well as a large number of various technical and institutional matters. On the other hand these enactments had
been passed few decades ago which have therefore failed to grant legal provision as to give firm solutions to
the problems arisen at present.
2.3 Though there are number of institutions involved in various activities related to the conservation of water sources
they are not properly conserved and protected due to the dearth of human and physical resources, various
institutional as well as technological factors and improper exchange of spatial data related to this. Though some
foreign funded projects were launched for the conservation of catchment areas, their objectives could not be
achieved as they are not carried out after the prescribed project period. Therefore, preparation of an appropriate
programme for the sustainable management of water sources and their reservations and catchments has become
a timely requirement. It would not only be a sustainable programme for the sustainable agricultural development
and fulfilling the future drinking water  requirement but also be a fruitful strategy in achieving the country’s new
economic policies and objectives.
2.4 The Parliamentary Consultative Committee of the Ministry of Land and Land Development appointed a sub
committee on 07.02.2013 with the leadership of the Hon. Deputy Minister of Land and Land Development to
investigate and report this matter conducting 08 sessions and 04 workshops with the participation of the several
Institutions has identified 08 main issues / obstacles pertaining to this matter.
4 - PG 2298

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2014
2.5 Main issues/obstacles identified
2.5.1 The boundaries of the areas with water sources, reservations of water ways, catchments of the reservoirs /
tanks have not been identified and marked physically on the ground.
2.5.2 Issues in the present laws, rules and regulations.
2.5.3 Institutional problems regarding the  conservation of water sources.
2.5.4 Misuse of land allied to the areas related to water sources, reservations of water ways and catchments of
reservoirs / tanks and other activities that cause water pollution 2.5.5 Encroachments made for various
activities related to the areas described above.
2.5.6 Lack of public participation in protecting the area relating to the water sources.
2.5.7 Unavailability of sufficient resources with authorities concerned to take necessary action to conserve the
areas related to water sources, reservations of water ways and catchment of reservoirs / tanks.
2.5.8 Lack of information / data on the activities take place at present in the areas described above.
The concurrence of the subject related experts was obtained on subject matters as to grant permanent
solutions to the problems discussed above and this policy has been   formulated on that context.
03. POLICY VISION
“Water Resources for the Future Generation”
04. POLICY  GOAL
The primary intention of this policy is to ensure the protection and conservation of all the water sources and their
source areas in Sri Lanka through an optimum management.
05. POLICY OBJECTIVE
The main objective of this policy is to protect and conserve all the water sources their reservations the conservation
areas and immediate catchment areas to ensure the existence of the water sources in Sri Lanka.
06. POLICY ELEMENTS
6.1 When it is generally considered, water is not a scarce resource in Sri Lanka. But not only the unequal geographical
distribution of water resources, the fluctuations in the rainfall pattern but also the inequality of water use have
caused water a scarce resource while granting a high economic value. Accordingly, if the sustainable existence of
water is not ensured, it would result in social, economic as well as environmental adverse effects, though it is “not
a finite resource.”
6.2 Therefore this policy on protection and conservation of water resources has been formulated based on the below
mentioned principles.
6.2.1 Take action treating all the water sources of Sri Lanka as an invaluable Public Natural Resource as well as a
Global Asset.
6.2.2 The public has the right to receive and consume clean and quality water for the well being of the human
being as well as the environment.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2014
6.2.3 The role of all the communities and responsible agencies shall be to ensure sustainability of the water
resource in Public Consumption and all sort of other uses including various development activities.
6.2.4 The com mon responsibility of each and every citizen shall be to protect and conserve the water sources and
their source,areas for the future protection and preserving the quality of the water resource.
6.2.5 Water sources and their source areas shall be protected and conserved without considering their location or
the nature of  the ownership. Conservation strategies and mechanisms shall be prepared based on the nature
of the ownership.
6.2.6 Water users of all levels, planners and the decision making personnel and institutions shall contribute for
the protection conservation and management of water sources with Participatory Planning Approach.
6.2.7. Present rules and regulations regarding the water sources in the state lands and the lands belonging to the
Land Reforms Commission shall be unchanged and further adhered to.
6.2.8. In respect of the water sources located in the lands belonging to Plantation Companies and the private lands
it is expected to declare them as Environmentally Sensitive Zones in terms of the National Environment Act
through Participatory Management Method or acquire to the government only in an instance where such
water sources have to be conserved or developed
07. POLICIES
It appears that the nature of implementing the policy matters in achieving the objectives envisaged in this policy
has been connected with various subjects. Accordingly the entire policy is presented under the following areas.
7.1 Identifying, determination of borders, demarcating boundaries, protection and conservation of water
sources.
7.2 Empowering the institutions related to the conservation and protection of water sources.
7.3 Monitoring of activities and follow up action
7.4 Awareness and participation
7.5 Granting financial provision and facilities
            The policies  pertaining to the 05 areas given above are as follows
08. POLICIES FOR THE IDENTIFICATION, DEMARCATING OF BOUNDARIES, CONSERVATION AND PROTECTION
OF WATER SOURCES AND RELATED AREAS.
8.1 Determine and demarcate the limits / boundaries of water sources and their catchments and legally declaration
of such areas.
8.2 Conserve the lands in the areas demarcated as water sources and their catchments and related reservations by
adopting suitable strategies taking in to account their present ownership and use.
8.3 Avoid inappropriate use of land in the areas related to water sources through the preparation of land use plans.
8.4 Rehabilitate the degraded lands in the areas related to water sources.
8.5 Identify amendments needed in existing laws and legislations and introduce new laws with regard to the protection
of the areas related to water sources, if necessary.
8.6 Pay special attention on protection and conservation of the areas related to water sources when preparing all the
development plans including regional development plans and include such plans in the development plans.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2014
8.7 Make compulsory the adoption of conservation based land use patterns suitable for environmentally sensitive
areas and the lands over 5000 feet above the sea level for the protection and conservation of the areas related to
water sources.
8.8 Not to release the state lands in the areas related to water sources, identified for conservation for any purpose
other than the protection of such lands.
8.9 Follow a holistic approach for the management of areas related to water sources.
09. POLICIES   FOR   THE   STRENTHENING   OF   INSTITUTIONS
9.1 Identify the institutions which contribute directly or indirectly for the protection and conservation of the areas
related to the water sources. (As per schedule 1)
9.2 Develop human and physical resources In such institutions enabling the implementation of the policy.
9.3 All the responsible institutions shall include the activities pertaining to the conservation of water resources in
their Annual Action Plans.
9.4 Establish a National Level Operational Committee comprising the subject related experts for decision making on
protection, conservation and management of the areas related to the water sources.
10. POLICIES   ON   MONITORING   AND   FOLLOW   UP   ACTION
10.1 Establish a methodology to inform the authorities about the unauthorized and harmful activities conducted in the
areas related to water sources in advance and empowerment of its implementing machanism.
10.2. Establish a follow-up mechanism to monitor all the activities pertaining to protection and conservation of the areas
related to water sources.
10.3 Continuous testing of the volume and the standards of the quality of reservoirs, waterways and their sources and
introduce remedial measures if there are defects and establish a prior warning system.
10.4 Develop a data base to facilitate the protection and conservation of the areas related to water sources and connect
it with the data base stated in the Cabinet Memorandum submitted by the Minister of Land and Land Development
on   07.08.2013 regarding “setting up a formal National Program for the Common Use and Sharing of Spatial Data
and Information”.
10.5 Sharing data and information on protection, conservation and management of water sources through the District
Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat and Local Authorities and other institutions concerned.
11. POLICIES   RELATED   TO  AW ARNESS    AND    PARTICIPATION
11.1 Encourage the stakeholders and the community participation on the protection and conservation of the areas
related to water sources.
11.2 Take action to educate all the stakeholders including the General Public and the students through the school
curriculum on the importance of protection and conservation of the areas related to water sources.
11.3 Take action to use indigenous knowledge and methods to protect and conserve the areas related to water sources.
11.4 Encourage the private sector participation in protection and conservation of the areas related to water sources and
implement the programmes through the Public Private Partnership.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2014
11.5 Encourage a Public Private Partnership programmes for the conservation of the areas of water sources and take
action according to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).
11.6 Encourage the studies and researches directly contribute for the protection and conservation of water sources.
12. POLICIES  ON   THE    FUNDING    MECHANISM
12.1 Allocate required fmancial provisions to all tne public institutions concerned for the plans prepared for the
protection and conservation of the areas related to water sources from the National Budget, funds of the Provincial
Councils and the funds of the local government.
12.2 Take action to allocate a part of the funds utilizes for water related projects implemented under state financial
allocations and private funds and foreign funds for the protection and conservation of the areas related to water
sources.
13. OPERATIONAL  MECHANISM
13.1 When the matters stipulated above in this policy are analyzed the responsibility of implementing this policy would
be entrusted with a number of institutions under a several subject areas. Mainly the institutions related to the
subjects such as land, water resources, irrigation, Mahawali, Agriculture Agrarian Development, Wild Life and
Forest Conservation, Environment and Education are the pioneering institutions in implementing this policy. In
addition provincial, distract and divisional administration and all the subject related institutional structured
connected with the subject are the main stakeholders in implementing this policy. Also, the Land Use Policy
Planning Development falling under the purview of the Ministry of Land and Land Development will function as
the coordinating institute in implementing this policy. An Operational Committee comprising the institutions
mentioned bellow will be implemented under the coordination of the Land Use Policy Planning Department and the
said departments will be considered as the Implementing Agencies.
These Agencies shall prepare Corporate Plans, Strategic Plans and Action Plans as to achieve the objectives of the
protection and conservation of water sources.
* Ministry of Land and Land Development
* Ministry of Environment and Renewable Energy
* Ministry of Plantation Industries
* Ministry of Water Supply and Drainage
* Ministry of Irrigation and water Management
* Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils
* Ministry of Education
* Land Use Policy Planning Department
* Land Commissioner General’s Department
* Survey Department
* Water Board
* National Water Supply and Drainage Board
* Department of Agrarian Development
* Department of Irrigation
* Department of Agriculture
* Central Environment Authority
* Department of Wildlife Conservation
* Department of Forest Conservation
* Mahawali Authority of Sri Lanka
* Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation
* Urban Department Authority
* Land Reform Commission
* Department of National Physical Planning

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2014
14. TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE OPERATIONAL COMMITTEE/NATIONAL EXPERT COMMITTEE
The Operational Committee mentioned above will be entrusted with the under mentioned “Terms of References”
(TOR) to ensure the effective and efficient implementation of this policy.
14.1 Identify all sort of water sources springs and rivers, reservations of streams on priority basis and the reservations
of the reservoirs and mark them in detail maps.
14.2 Establish a Geographical data base, based on such data and make available such information to the institutions
concerned.
14.3 Survey and demarcate the location of the water sources, springs and their reservations and the reservations of the
rivers and streams which are to be protected and conserved.
14.4 Declare the water sources, springs and their reservations and the reservations of rivers and streams that are to be
protected and conserved as “Conservation areas”.
14.5 Take action to evacuate the present encroachments and uses of the reservations of rivers, streams and reservoir
through adopting the existing laws.
14.6 Draft new laws and a new National Policy which would be required pertaining to the conservation and protection
of rivers,springs and reservations and other water sources. (As per schedule 02)
14.7 Prepare land use plans for all sort of water sources~spouts and reservations of the rivers and springs and their
source areas.
14.8 Prepare and implement media programmes, curricular development, awareness and educational programmes on
conservation of water sources.
Schedule 01
It is proposed to entrust the below mention Institutions with the responsibility of protecting and conserving the
rivers, tributaries, low lands, reservoirs/ tanks, and streams according to their location and the nature
Main trust area Responsible Agency
I. Main rivers and the parts of the main tributaries
that join with such  rivers
1I. River mouths of the all the rivers,  lagoons and
natural water   spreading areas close to the sea
III. Upper and lower reserves of all the main,
canals and drainage   channels of all the
reservoirs and tanks falling under the Central
government and maintenance and operational
activities of such  reservoirs
IV . All the drainage channels in the areas subject
to flood  and the   parts spreading up to the
coast along with the rivers to which said
drainage channels join.
Department of Irrigation
Department of Coastal Conservation
Department of Irrigation, Mahaweli Authority of  Sri  Lanka
Ceylon Electricity Board, National Water Supply and Drainage
Board
Department of Irrigation

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'22
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.12.2014
V. All the main rivers and medium scale tanks and
connected rivers and  drainage channels which
do not fall under (III) above.
V L Tanks of which the command area is over
200 acres and all the connected rivers and
all the river parts that do not belong to
category (1) and do not fall under the Central
Government
VII. All the tanks and canals that do not belonging
to III, IV, V above  and all the rivers ( oya) and
streams that are not included in II, V , and VI above
VIII. AIl the drains and drainage channels systems
located in small  high lands where the streams are
regionaIly created due to the flow of storm water.
IX. Canal Systems related to low lands and activities
related to flood control in such areas.
X. Activities related to the protection and conservation
of the water  sources in wildlife reserves, forest
reserves and environmentaIly  protected areas
XI. Use of ground or surface water resources springs
and sprouts for  drinking water projects and/or
agricultural purposes.
Main trust area Responsible Agency
Department of Irrigation
ProvincialIrrigation  Department  or in
case if it does not functions well, the
Department of Agrarian Development
Department of Agrarian
Divisional Secretary
Sri Lanka Land  Reclamation  and  Development
Corporation
Wildlife Department, Forest department,  Central Environment
Authority and other stakeholder agencies
Natronal  Water  Supply and  Drainage  Board,   Department
of  Agrarian Development,  Divisional  Secretary  and  other
agencies concerned.
SCHEDULE - 02
List of the enactments the Committee deems that amendments to be introduced as for the betterment of the protection and
conservation of water sources
I. State Land Ordinance
II. Land Development Ordinance
III. Irrigation Ordinance
IV . Agrarian Development Act
V. Water Resource Development Act
VI. Forest Ordinance
VII. Wildlife Conservation Act
VIII. National Water Supply and Driange Board Act
IX. Soil Conservation Act
X. Disaster Management Act
XI. Coastal Conservation Act
XII. Urban Development Authority Act
XIII. Land Reform Law
XIV . Acts pertaining to plantation crops including Tea/Rubber/Coconut
XV . Mahaweli Authority Act.
01-219
PRINTED A T THE DEP ARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.