

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2003
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"036 – 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'09'08
No. 2,036 –  FRIDAY ,  SEPTEMBER  08, 2017
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th September, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th September, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satis ﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.– Part III of the Gazette No. 2,035 of 31.08.2017 was not published.
2001-B 81205- 5,403 (09/2017)
Note.–   Great Wall of Nibbana Development Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 31, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2002
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identiﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any ﬁ le cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufﬁ cient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should 
be accurate and suf ﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2003
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
Amendment Notice
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS
Written Competitive Examination for the Promotion to the Post of Administrative Grama Niladhari of the 
Management Assistant Supra Grade on Merit Basis, under the Ministry of Home Affairs - 2016
THE notice of Gazette published under the Section - I, Paragraph (IIA) - Advertising of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation No. 2,018 
dated 05.05.2017 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for calling applications for the above examination is 
amended as follows : 
The matters referred to in Clause (iii) of the Paragraph 07 of the English Gazette notice are amended as follows.
07. Method of Application.- Enabling those qualiﬁ ed ofﬁ cers who failed to apply due to the disaster situation that 
prevailed over the past days, to apply for the said post, the closing date of applications is hereby extended. 
 (iii) The candidates shall send their applications by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of 
Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examinations, P. O. 
Box, 1503, Colombo, through the Divisional Secretary related to the respective division, on or before 
09.10.2017.
 N
EIL DE ALWIS, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Home Affairs. 
Ministry of Home Affairs, 
Independence Square, 
Colombo 07,
28th August, 2017. 
09-262
–––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  MAHAWELI  DEVELOPMENT  AND  ENVIRONMENT 
Forest Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF RANGE FOREST 
OFFICER OF TRAINING GRADE OF SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE OF THE FOREST 
DEPARTMENT (2016) (2017) 
APPLICATIONS are invited from the Quali ﬁ ed citizens of Sri Lanka for the recruitment to the Post of Range Forest 
Ofﬁ cer of Training grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Forest Department.
01. Salary :-
• Training Grade – MN 01/2016. From 01.01.2017, according to the Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016,
 1st year - Rs. 18,728
 2nd year - Rs. 18,935

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2004
   Salary Scale :-
• According to Public Administration Circular               
No. 03/2016            
 Rs. 31,040- 10x445- 11x660- 10x730- 10x750-  
Rs. 57,550
02. General Term of Engagements and  Service 
Conditions :
 (i) This appointment is permanent & pensionable. 
Should make Contributions to the Widow / 
Widower and Orphan’s Pension scheme.
 (ii) The appointment will be subjected to a 
probation period of three years.
 (iii) Recruitment will be made to the Training 
Grade. Period of Training is two years.
 (iv) Places of service of the Range Forest Of ﬁ cers 
are located in arduous places in forested areas. 
The selected candidates should prepare to serve 
in any part of the Island.
 (v) Preference will be given to Tamil medium 
candidates who reside in Northern and Eastern 
provinces  and have passed the examination 
fulﬁ lling required qualiﬁ cations   during ﬁ lling 
available vacancies (Tamil medium) in those 
provinces.
 (vi) Section in the service minute of Sri Lanka 
Technological service and the scheme of 
Recruitment and Promotion procedure 
(amended) of the Range Forest Of ﬁ cers of Sri 
Lanka Technological service are applicable.
 (vii) General conditions of service governing 
appointments in the public service mentioned 
at the beginning of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation are 
applicable.
 (viii) The Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil 
& English Media. No candidate will be allowed 
to change the medium of language applied, 
later on.
03. Age Limit.– Applicants should not be less than 18 
years and not more than 30 years of age on the closing date 
of applications.
04. Educations and other Quali ﬁ cations.– All 
applicants should have satisfactorily completed following 
requirements :
 (i) Should pass the General Certi ﬁ cate of 
Education (Advanced Level) in three (03) 
subjects including Biology or Agriculture in 
one sitting. (Except common test) ;   
 or
  Should pass the General Certi ﬁ cate of 
Education Examination (Advanced  Level) in 
three (03) subjects including either Zoology, 
Botany or agriculture as two subjects in one 
sitting under old syllabus ;
  and
 (ii) Should pass the General Certi ﬁ cate of 
Education Examination (Ordinary Level) 
in six (06) subjects with four (04) credit 
passes for  Sinhala/Tamil/English Language 
Mathematics , and Science and one more 
subject in one sitting. 
05. Other Qualiﬁ cations :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) The applicant should possess a sound character.
 (iii) The applicant should complete all the 
requirements mentioned in the above 03 and 
4th of the notice / Gazette issued inviting 
applications.
 (iv) All applicants Should possess physical and 
mental ﬁ tness to serve in any part of the Island 
and to perform duties of the post.
06. Method of Recruitment :
 (i) Based on the marks obtained by the applicants 
at the written examination and qualiﬁ ed under 
above paragraphs 3,4 and 5, will be summoned 
for a general interview. Accordingly, the 
applicant who have scored highest total marks 
will be recruited in the descending order based 
on the available vacancies.
 (ii) Results will be noti ﬁ ed to all the applicants 
personally by the Commissioner General of 
Examination by post or through the web site 
www.results.exams .gov.lk. 
 (iii) When there are several applicants who scored 
equal marks for the available last vacancy as 
mentioned in above paragraph 6.1, only the 
applicants who scored higher marks will be 
recruited. 
 (iv) The applicants selected based on the 
qualiﬁ cations mentioned under above 
paragraph 6.1, will be absorbed to the Grade 
III of Sri Lanka Technological Service after 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2005
passing Level 6 of National V ocational 
Qualiﬁ cation (N.V .Q.6) test and completion 
of 02 years theoretical and physical training 
conducted at the Sri Lanka Forestry Institute 
in Nuwara Eliya. 
07. Syllabus.– The written examination   consist of two 
question   papers:
 (i) Intelligence Test : 
  Durations – 01 hour , Marks - 100
  There are 50 questions in the form of multiple 
– choice and short answers in order to test the 
candidate’s rational and analytical skills and   to 
test the decision making ability. The candidate 
shall have to answer all the questions.
 (ii) Technical Questions paper: 
  Durations   - 2 hours , Marks - 100 
  This paper will assess the knowledge on 
forest resource and its effects on organisms, 
the ecology of Sri Lanka Geographical 
importance, Agricultural Economy of Sri 
Lanka important importation on Ministry of 
Mahaweli Development and Environment 
– Forest Department and their mission and 
objectives. Natural Environment, forest 
and vegetations, importance on the close 
relationship between forest and people, basic 
knowledge on geography (shape of the earth 
geographical features) the candidates shall 
have to answer all questions.
 (iii) The Applicants should sit for both these 
questions papers in one medium of language. 
The applicants shall have to score minimum 
of 40% marks for each paper to pass the 
examination.
08. Applications and other Information :
 (i) The  applications should be in conformity 
with the specimen appended at the end of this 
notice .It should be prepared on papers sized 
21 x 29 cm. (A4 size) using both sides by 
the applicants and Nos. 1-8 in the specimen  
applications should be included in page 
01 and the rest in page 02. The application 
should be completed by the applicant in 
own hand writing and in the medium of 
language in which the candidate is eligible 
to sit for the examinations. “Recruitment to 
the post of Range Forest of ﬁ cer of training                                       
Grade (open) -2016 (2017) should be indicated 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope. 
The applications should be send  under 
the  registered cover to the Commissioner 
General of Examination ,Organizational & 
Foreign Examination  Branch, Department 
of Examination, P.O.Box 1503, Colombo on 
or before 06.10.2017. (Applications should 
not be sent to any personal  name or to any 
other address) Retaining a photocopy of the 
completed application form will be useful. 
Name of the examination shall be written 
in English other than Sinhala applications 
and in English other than Tamil in Tamil 
applications.
 (ii) Incomplete and delayed Applications will be 
rejected without prior notice.
 (iii) No complaints regarding lost of applications 
in the post will be entertained
 (iv) The Signature of the applicants should be 
attested in the application as well as in the 
admission. An applicant applying through any 
ofﬁ cer authorized by him. Other applicants 
should get their signatures attested by a 
Principal of a Government school/Retired 
ofﬁ cer, Grama Niladari of the Division, Justice 
of Peace, Sworn Commissioner, Lawyer, 
Public Notary, Commissioned Of ﬁ cer in the 
Army, Navy, Air Force, an Of ﬁ cer holding a 
staff  grade permanent  post in Public Service 
or Provincial Public Service receiving annual 
consolidated salary of Rs.240,360/- or above, 
the Chief Incumbent of a Buddhist temple, a 
Clergy in charge of Other Religious Place or 
a recognized clergy.
 (v) The application which are not in conformity 
with this notice will be rejected.
 (vi) The Of ﬁ cers in the Public Service should send 
their applications through the respective heads 
of their Department. It has to be mentioned 
that if the Ofﬁ cer has been selected, he could 
be released from his   present  post.
 (vii) Receipt of the application will not be 
acknowledged.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2006
09. Examination Fees :
 (i) Examination Fee is Rs. 600. The receipt 
obtained on payment of this fee to any  Post 
ofﬁ ce or sub post of ﬁ ce under the revenue 
Head No. 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations should be pasted in 
the relevant place given in the application. 
Examination fee has to be paid before the 
closing data (Retaining a photocopy of the 
receipt with the applicant will be useful)  
 (ii) The Examination Fee is not to refundable and 
not be transferable to any other examination.
10. The applicant shall produce one or all of the 
documents mention  below when required. 
 (i) Birth Certi ﬁ cate;
 (ii) Educational Certi ﬁ cates;
 (iii) A certi ﬁ cate obtained from Grama  Niladari 
recently (With countersign of the Divisional 
secretary)
 (iv) Two character certi ﬁ cates;
 (v) Other relevant certi ﬁ cates;
Note.- Documents/certiﬁ cates or photocopies of them 
should not be sent along with the application.
11. (i) The examination centers  and Admissions cards. 
The examination will be held at the examinations centers 
in towns  mentioned in Schedule 1 - of this notice. The town 
where the candidate wishes to sit for the examinations and 
its number should be mentioned as ﬁ rst and second choice 
at the Head of the application.
 (i) When there are no suf ﬁ cient applicants to hold  
the examination in a particular town, those 
applicants will be directed to the town mentioned 
as their second choice or to another closer town. 
Further ,when there are no suf ﬁ cient applicants 
to hold the  examination in all proposed towns 
or majority the Commissioner General of 
Examination will take necessary actions to hold 
the examination  in Colombo .
 (ii) Admission card will be issued by the 
Commissioner General of examination to 
the candidates who are within the age limit 
mentioned in the notice and  have sent duly 
perfected application forms on or before closing 
date along with the receipt obtained after paying 
examination fee. A notice in this regard will be 
published in news paper by the Department of 
Examination, as soon as the admission cards 
were issued. If the candidate has not received 
the admission card even after 02 or 03 days of 
publication of the notice, he / she should inquire 
from the Organization and foreign Examination 
Branch of the Department of Examination. 
During these inquiries the applicant should 
mention the name of the examination applied, 
full name, national Identity card number and 
address accurately. If the applicant is a resident 
outside Colombo, It may be more effective 
to submit a fax number along with the other 
information in the request letter and fax that 
letter to the fax number mentioned in the notice  
in order to get a copy of the  admission card 
quickly. It will be beneﬁ tted if you can produce 
a copy of the application, a copy of the receipt 
obtained after paying examination fee and the 
receipt obtained after sending the application by 
registered post during inquiries.
 (iii) The issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he or she 
has the requisite quali ﬁ cations to sit for the 
examination and the admission card in which 
his /  her signature has been duly attested should 
be submitted to the head of Examination center 
on the very ﬁ rst day.
 (iv) The candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examination regarding the conduct 
of the examination and issue of results. These 
who violate such rules and regulations will be 
subjected to any punishment determined by the 
commissioner General of Examination.
12. Identity of the candidate. – A candidate must prove 
identity to the satisfaction of the invigilator and one of the 
following documents will be accepted 
 (i) National Identity card issued by the Department 
of Registrations of persons  
 (ii)  A valid passport.
13. Punishments for Furnishing  False Information.– if 
the candidate is  found to be ineligible ,  prior to or after 
the selection, his  candidature or selection is liable to be 
cancelled at any stage. If any of the particulars furnished 
by a candidate, is found to be false with his knowledge or 
if he has willfully suppressed any important fact, he will be 
liable to dismissal from Public Service. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2007
14. Actions will be taken as per the decisions of the  
Conservator General of Forests  with regards to the matters 
that have not been mentioned in this notice.
15.If there is any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil 
and English texts of this notice then Sinhala text shall be 
accepted.
 S. A. A
NURA SATHURUSINGHE, 
 Conservator  General of  Forests.
Forest Department,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla.
21.08.2017
O
PEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR RECRUITMENT TO 
THE   POST OF RANGE FOREST OFFICER  IN TRAINING GRADE 
OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE OF THE FOREST 
DEPARTMENT - 2016
 Town in which it is expected to sit for the examination.
Town No. of the Town
1st choice
2st choice
(Complete as per Schedule -1)
01.  Medium of Examination  :                                    
   Sinhala - 2
 Tamil   - 3
 English - 4
 (Write the relevant number  in the cage)  
02.   (i)  Name with initials indicating initials at the end
   (In block Capitals) :––––––––––.
   ( Eg.: GUNAWARDHANA  M. G. B. S. K.)
   (ii) Full name ( In block capitals) :––––––––––.
  (iii)  Full name (In Sinhala /Tamil) :––––––––––.
03.    (i)  Address to which admission card to be posted 
(In block capitals) :––––––––––.
       (ii)  Permanent Address (In Sinhala /Tamil) :–––––.
04.   National Identity Card  No. :   
05. Gender :                 
 Male    -  0   
      Female -  1
      (Write the relevant n umber in the cage)
06.   (i) Date of Birth :-  
   Year    Month     Date 
           (ii) Age at 06.10.2017  :
                  Years      Months      Days
   
07.  Citizenship :                   
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
   By descent     -  1
 By Registration -  2
08. Telephone Number :
 
09. Educational Qualiﬁ cations :
 General Certi ﬁ cate of Education  (Ordinary Level) 
Examination :
1st attempt   :
Year:––––––––––.   Index No. :––––––––––.  
Subject Grade
      
2nd  attempt :
Year:––––––––––.   Index No. :––––––––––.  
Subject Grade

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2008
10.  General Certi ﬁ cate of Education (Advanced Level) 
Examination :
 Year:––––––––––.   Index No. :––––––––––.  
Subject Grade
      
11. Other Educational Qualiﬁ cations :––––––––––.  
12. Professional/Other Qualiﬁ cation :––––––––––.  
13.    (i) The Post Of ﬁ ce   to which the   examination fee 
was paid :––––––––––.  
      (ii) Number of the cash receipt and date :–––––––.  
Please afﬁ x the cash receipt here 
14.    (i)   Have  you ever been convicted for any offence 
by a Court of  Law? Yes / No :––––––––––. 
          (ii)  If Yes, give details :––––––––––. 
15. If  you are already employed, give particulars
  (i) Institute :––––––––––.          
  (ii) Date of ﬁ rst  appointment :––––––––––.   
   (iii) Designation :––––––––––.   
      (iv) Salary :––––––––––.                       
16. Names  and  address of  two non  related  referees :
  (i) ––––––––––––––
  (ii) ––––––––––––––
17. Declaration of  the applicant :
     I, hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in 
this  application are true and correct.  I am aware that if any 
particulars given in the application  are  found to be incorrect 
prior to my selection, I am liable to be disquali ﬁ ed and if 
it is found after the selections, I am liable to be dismissed 
without any compensation. Further I hereby declare that I 
will be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of examination for conducting  
Examinations and issue of  results.
                                      
                                           –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
 (Should place the signature before the attestor)       
                                        
Date :––––––––––. 
18. Attestment of the applicant’s signature:
I do hereby certify that applicant Mr. /Mrs./ Miss 
....................... is known to me personally and he / she 
placed his / her  signature before me on ............................ 2016.
 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Attester.
Name of the attestor :––––––––––. 
Designation :––––––––––. 
Address :––––––––––. 
Date :––––––––––. 
(Place the rubber stamp)
19.  If the applicant is in Public / Provincial  Public 
service, the relevant Head of the Institution should 
complete the following :
I hereby certify that applicant Mr./Ms ...................... is 
Serving  in this Ministry / Department/Ofﬁ ce as a .............
...................  holding a permanent/ temporary post and the 
particulars furnished by him / her are true and correct. He 
/ She can be released / cannot be released from the present 
post if he / she is selected for the above post.
                                                 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the   Head of   
 the  Department or an Of ﬁ cer 
 Authorized by him.  
  
Name :––––––––––. 
Designation :––––––––––. 
( place  the rubber stamp )
Date :––––––––––. 
(Cut  the unnecessary words)
(No document or a copy of it should be annexed other 
than the receipt obtained after paying examination fee).
              
  Schedule  - 1
Town and the Number of Towns in which 
Examination Centers are to be established.
 Town Number of the Town
Colombo 01 
Gampaha 02 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2009
Kalutara   03
Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle   07
Matara 08
Hambantota  09
Jaffna 10
Mannar      11
Vavuniya    12
Mulative 13
Kilinochchi 14 
 Town Number of the Town
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18 
Puththalama 19
Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Ratnapura 24
Kegalle 25
09–57
 
–––––––––––––
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
Ministry of Public Administration and Management 
Y%S ,xld úoHd;aul fiajfha III fY%a‚fha ;k;=re mqrmamdvq msrùu i|yd jk újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2016
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS WHICH HA VE FALLEN V ACANT 
IN GRADE III OF SRI LANKA SCIENTIFIC SERVICE - 2016
APPLICATIONS are hereby called, on the order of Public Service Commission, from the qualiﬁ ed citizens of Sri Lanka 
for the open competitive examination which is due to be held for ﬁ lling 20 posts in Grade III of Sri Lanka Scienti ﬁ c 
Service that have fallen vacant in the following Departments/Ministries. Applications prepared in line with the specimen 
application indicated at the end of this notiﬁ cation and duly perfected shall be sent through registered post on or before the 
closing date of applications mentioned below to reach Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign 
Examination Branch, Department of Examination Sri Lanka, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo. "Open Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to the Posts which have fallen vacant in Grade III of Sri Lanka Scientiﬁ c Service - 2016" shall be clearly 
indicated on the top left corner of the envelope. Further, the name of the examination shall be indicated in English in the 
Sinhala and Tamil applications in addition to Sinhala or Tamil languages. This examination is due to be held in the month 
of January 2018. 
Serial No. Department/Ministry to which 
the vacated post belongs
Designation Number of Vacancies Code Number
01 Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and Indigenous Medicine
Entomologist 11 01
Chemist 07 02
02 Department of National 
Museums
Assistant Director 
(Botany)
01 03
03 Department of Archaeology Assistant Director 
(Chemical 
Conservation)
01 04
Total number of vacancies 20
* Closing date of the applications is 09.10.2017.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2010
Note.- No complaint that an application/relevant letter has been lost or delayed in post shall be considered. The 
loss that may be caused by delaying the applications until the closing date of applications shall be borne 
by the applicants themselves. 
01. Method of Recruitment to the Service.-  Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written examination 
and a general interview shall be conducted for the veri ﬁ cation of qualiﬁ cations. Recruitments shall be made to the posts 
which have fallen vacant on the order of merit of the marks secured by the applicants at the examination. Number of 
appointments to be made and the effective date of the appointment shall be determined on the orders of the Public Services 
Commission. The Public Service Commission shall reserve the authority to make a ﬁ nal decision with regard to ﬁ lling of 
vacancies. 
02. Conditions for engagement in service : 
 (i) This post shall be permanent. You shall be subjected to the policy decision made by the government on 
the Pension Scheme entitled to you. 
 (ii) The of ﬁ cers appointed to this post shall be subjected to a probation period of three (3) years and the 
ofﬁ cers are required to pass the ﬁ rst Efﬁ ciency Bar within the said three (3) years. 
 (iii) They are required to achieve the pro ﬁ ciency in other of ﬁ cial language as per provisions in Public 
Administration Circular No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and consequent circulars within 5 years. 
Ofﬁ cers who have joined the service in a language medium other than an ofﬁ cial language shall achieve 
the proﬁ ciency in one of ﬁ cial language within the probation period and in the other of ﬁ cial language 
within ﬁ ve (05) years. 
 (iv) This appointment shall be subjected to the Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission, conditions 
stipulated in Sri Lanka Scienti ﬁ c Service Minute published in the Gazette notiﬁ cation No. 1877/27 
dated 28th August 2014 and accordingly the conditions of the Procedures of Recruitment relevant to 
each Department. 
03. Salary Scale.- The monthly salary scale relevant to this post as per Schedule I of Public Administration 
Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs. 47,615 - 10x1,335 - 8x1,630 - 17 x 2,170 - Rs. 110,895 (SL-1-2016). 
Salaries shall be paid to you as per the said circular in the manner stipulated in Schedule II of the same. 
04. Educational Qualiﬁ cations : 
Serial No. Department Post Educational and other Quali ﬁ cations
01 Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and Indigenous 
Medicine
Entomologist (a) Having obtained a BSc (Special) degree in 
Zoology with Entomology as a subject from a 
recognized University ; 
or
(b) Having obtained a P.H.D./M.Sc./M.Phil in 
Entomology from a recognized University
Chemist (a) Having obtained a BSc. degree in Chemistry 
or the membership of Sri Lanka Institute of 
Chemistry or a qualiﬁ cation equivalent to the 
same with three years' experience in Food 
Analysis ;
or
(b) Having obtained a M.Sc. degree in Food 
Science and Technological Science or a 
degree equivalent to the same with two years' 
experience in Food Analysis

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2011
Serial No. Department Post Educational and other Quali ﬁ cations
02 Department of National 
Museums
Assistant Director 
(Botany)
(a) Having obtained an honours degree in Botany 
with a First Class or Second Class or a degree 
at a higher level from a University recognized 
by the University Grant Commission
03 Department of Archaeology Assistant Director 
(Chemical 
Conservation)
(a) Having obtained a Special degree in 
Chemistry with a 1st or 2nd Class from a 
recognized University by the University 
Grants Commission or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the University 
Grants Commission 
or
Having obtained a Post Graduate Diploma in 
Chemistry with a Special degree in Chemistry
or
Having obtained a M.Sc. degree in Chemistry 
and a degree with Chemistry as a subject. 
05. Age limit. * 
Department Post Age Limit
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
Indigenous Medicine
Entomologist Shall not be less than 21 years and not 
more than 45 years
Chemist Shall not be less than 22 years and not 
more than 35 years
Department of National Museums Assistant Director (Botany) Shall not be less than 22 years and not 
more than 28 years
Department of Archaeology Assistant Director 
(Chemical Conservation)
Shall not be less than 22 years and not 
more than 28 years
06. Physical Fitness.- Every candidate shall be physically and mentally ﬁ t to perform the duties of the post and 
to serve in any part of Sri Lanka. 
07. Other Qualiﬁ cations :
 (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Shall be of excellent moral character,
 (iii) Shall not be a person who is ordained in any religious order, 
 (iv) Shall have not sat for the open competitive examination of Sri Lanka Scientiﬁ c Service more than twice,
 (v) Shall have satis ﬁ ed all the required quali ﬁ cations for recruitment to the post in every aspect as at the 
closing date mentioned in the Gazette.
8.1 Written Examination : 
 8.1.1 This examination shall be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations :
Question paper Duration Total marks Pass Marks
1. Intelligence Test 01 hour 100 40
2. General Question paper 03 hours 100 40

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2012
 8.1.2 Syllabus : 
Question paper Syllabus
1. Intelligence Test This question paper consists of 50 multiple choice questions and 
questions for short answers to measure the ability of candidate on 
critical reasoning, general intelligence and the ability in decisions 
making. It is compulsory to answer all the questions.
2. General Question paper A question paper to test the general knowledge on matters relating 
to political, social, cultural and economic environment of Sri Lanka, 
the matters important in national and international levels and the 
knowledge on national and international scientiﬁ c and technical 
development. The question paper shall consist of two parts. The ﬁ rst 
part shall consist of question for short answers. 25 marks shall be 
allocated for this part. The second part shall consist of semi structured 
questions. This part shall consist of 5 questions and all the questions 
shall be answered. 75 marks shall be allocated for this part.
 8.2 Method of Appointment.- Recruitments shall be made on the order of the merit of the marks secured by the 
candidates who have secured 40% marks or above for every question paper and order of preference. The 
number of candidates who are interviewed shall be determined by the Public Service Commission and 
the qualiﬁ cations shall be veriﬁ ed by an interview board approved by the Public Service Commission. 
No marks shall be allocated for the interview. 
 8.3 Results of the examination.- As per Para. 8.2, the result sheet including the names of the candidates who 
have qualiﬁ ed from the written test shall be submitted to the Secretary, Public Service Commission. The 
results shall be informed personally to all the applicants who have sat for the examination or published 
on the website www.result.exams.gov.lk.
9. Conditions of the Examination :
 (i) Examination shall be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. Candidates shall sit for examination 
in a language of their preference. They shall answer all the question papers in one and the same language 
selected by them. The candidate shall not be allowed to change the medium of examination indicated in 
the application subsequently. Every candidate shall sit for all the question papers. 
 (ii) The examination fee is Rs. 1,200. It shall be paid at any post of ﬁ ce/sub post of ﬁ ce to be credited to 
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained in the 
name of the applicant shall be af ﬁ xed by one edge of the receipt in the relevant cage so as not to be 
detached. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. 
 (iii) Under no circumstance the examination fee is refundable. Stamps or money orders shall not be accepted 
for the purpose of examination fee. 
 (iv) This examination shall be held in Colombo in the month of January. The date of examination shall be 
informed in due course. 
 (v) Incomplete applications shall be rejected without notice. 
Note.- Candidates shall not be permitted to enter the examination hall without the admission card. Only 
the admission cards on which the signature has been attested shall be submitted to the supervisor of the 
examination on the ﬁ rst day of the examination. 
 The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has ful ﬁ lled the requisite 
qualiﬁ cations to sit for the examination. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2013
 (vi) Application shall be prepared on paper of size 
21x29.7 cm (A-4) paper using both sides and 
the cages from 1.0 up to 3.10 shall appear on 
the ﬁ rst page and the cages from 3.11 onwards 
shall appear on the second page and the rest. The 
relevant particulars shall be furnished clearly 
by the candidates themselves. Applications 
that do not comply with the specimen and 
that are not complete in every aspect shall be 
rejected without notice. It is advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the application with candidate. 
It is the responsibility of the candidate to make 
sure that the application form perfected by him/
her complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice as otherwise the application 
may be rejected. Applications shall be prepared 
in accordance with the specimen application 
attached here with. A copy of degree certiﬁ cate 
and Acadamic Transcript should be attached to 
the application form. 
Note.- A specimen application prepared correctly 
can be downloaded for your convenience from 
the ofﬁ cial website of the Ministry of Public 
Administration and Management (www.
pubad.gov.lk).
Penalty for furnishing false information .- The 
candidate shall be very careful to include 
the correct particulars in the application. If 
it is found that any candidate is not eligible 
according to the rules and regulations of 
this examination his/her candidature can be 
cancelled at any time before, during or after 
the examination. 
 (vii) Receipt of applications shall not be 
acknowledged. Admission cards shall be issued 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations 
to the applicants who have sent duly perfected 
applications on the presumption that only those 
who possess quali ﬁ cations as indicated in the 
Gazette Noti ﬁ cation have forwarded their 
applications. A notice shall be published in the 
newspapers by the Department of Examinations 
as soon as admission cards are issued to 
applicants. If the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, 
it shall be inquired from the Organization and 
Foreign Examination Branch of the Department 
of Examinations in the manner speciﬁ ed in the 
advertisement. When making such inquiry, 
the name of the examination applied for, 
full name, NIC number of the candidate and 
address shall be indicated accurately. It would 
be advisable for candidates outside Colombo 
to send a letter of request along with the said 
details and a fax number of the candidate to 
the fax number mentioned in the advertisement 
for sending a copy of the admission promptly. 
Further, it would be advisable to keep a copy 
of the application, copy of the receipt relevant 
to payment of examination fee and the receipt 
of registration of the application to prove any 
information requested by the Department of 
Examination. The issuance of an admission 
card to a candidate does not mean that he or 
she has ful ﬁ lled the requisite quali ﬁ cations to 
sit for the examination or for the post. 
 (viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations 
shall reserve the power to postpone or cancel 
the examination on the approval of the Public 
Service Commission. 
 (ix) Candidates are subjected to rules and 
regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination. They are liable to be subjected to 
a punishment imposed by him/her for breach of 
these rules. 
 (x) Identity of Candidate .- A candidate shall be 
required to prove his identity at the examination 
hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. For 
this purpose, any of the following documents 
shall be accepted :
 ( a) National Identity Card issued by the 
Department of Registration of Persons, 
 ( b) A valid passport. 
N. B.-  (a) No document or a copy of the 
same should be attached to the 
application. 
 ( b) The applications of the candidates 
who are unable to submit relevant 
documents whenever they are 
requested shall not be considered.
Ofﬁ cers who are serving in Public Service/Provincial 
Public Service, Government Corporations shall send their 
applications through the respective Head of the Department/
Institution. It is compulsory for every applicant to get his/
her signature attested before appearing for the examination. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2014
An applicant who is appearing for the examination through an institution shall get his/her signature attested by the Head 
of the Institution where he serves. Other applicants shall get their signature attested by a Principal of a Government 
School, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, 
Commissioned Ofﬁ cer in the Armed Forces, an Of ﬁ cer in Staff Grade holding a permanent post in Public or Provincial 
Public Service whose annual consolidated salary is more than Rs. 240,360 or a Chief incumbent of a Buddhist temple or 
Chief Prelate or other clergy holding considerable position as the Chief Priest of a religious place. 
10. In the event of any disparity or inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notiﬁ cation, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
On the order of Public Service Commission, 
 J. J. R
ATHNASIRI, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Public Administration and Management. 
04th September, 2017. 
Y%S ,xld úoHd;aul fiajfha III fY%a‚fha ;k;=re mqrmamdvq msrùu i|yd jk újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2016
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III POSTS OF SRI LANKA SCIENTIFIC SERVICE - 2016
(For ofﬁ ce use only)
1.0 Medium : Language medium of examination 
 Sinhala 2 
 English 3  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 Tamil   4
 (The application should be ﬁ lled in the same language in which the candidate intends to sit the examination)
2.0 Indicate the posts applied for on the order of merit and preference (Clearly indicate the codes mentioned in the 
Gazette Notiﬁ cation) :
No. Designation Code Number
01.
02.
03.
04.
3.0 Personal Information : 
  3.1 Name in Full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
   ( Eg. : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
  3.2 Name with initials at the end (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––––.
   ( Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
  3.3 Name in Full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  3.4 Permanent address in English Block Capitals :––––––––––––.
   (Admission cards shall be posted to this address)
  3.5 Postal city :––––––––––––.
  3.6 Permanent address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  3.7 National Identity Card No. :

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2015
  3.8 Sex : Male - 0       Female - 1  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.9 Date of Birth : Year Month Date
  3.10 Age as at the closing date of applications : 
   Years  Months Days
  3.11 Ethnic group : Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, I. Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5
   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.12 Marital Status : Married - 1     Unmarried - 2    (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.13 Telephone No. :  Mobile
       Residence 
  3.14 E-mail address :––––––––––––.
4.0  Quali ﬁ cations :
  4.1 Effective date of the degree :––––––––––––.
   (Please refer Section 4 of the noti ﬁ cation to verify whether you possess this qualiﬁ cation)
Examination/Degree Class Year Subjects University/Institution
5.0 Af ﬁ x the receipt properly :
It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt. 
 Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
 Post of ﬁ ce to which the payment has been made :––––––––––––.
 Date :––––––––––––.
6.0 If you have ever been convicted of a criminal offense by a court, indicate the particulars of the offense and the 
punishment received :––––––––––––.
7.0 Certi ﬁ cation of the Applicant : 
I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true to the best of my knowledge and 
belief and the receipt No. ............................. dated ....................... being the payment of the examination fee  is af ﬁ xed 
herewith. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing examinations and any decision that may be taken to cancel 
my candidature prior or during or after the examination if it is found that I am ineligible according to the conditions of 
this examination. Further, I shall be liable to be dismissed from service without any compensation, if it is found that any 
particular indicated in the application is found to be false or incorrect even after the appointment to this post and I agree to 
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the examination 
and the decisions on issuing the results. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
Date :––––––––––––. Signature of the applicant. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2016
8.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature (As per 9.x of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation) :
I hereby certify that ................................. (Full name) who submits this application is known to me personally, 
that he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and afﬁ xed the relevant receipt herein. He/she placed his/her signature 
in my presence on ...........................
  ––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Of ﬁ cer attesting the Signature. 
Date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the ofﬁ cer attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(To be certiﬁ ed by placing the Ofﬁ cial Stamp)
9.0 Attestation of the Head of the Institution : 
 (Only for applicants who are in Public Service/Provincial Public Service/State Corporations) :
Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ who submits this application, is serving as a ................................ a t this 
Ministry/Department/Institution and his/her application is recommended and submitted herewith. Necessary arrangements 
can be made to release him/her from the service of this institution, if selected for this post. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Institution. 
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Ofﬁ cial Stamp)
09-473

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2017
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 “GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA” 
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
 2.  All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payment s to the 
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The of ﬁ ce hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. 
Post Ofﬁ ce - Borella will be the paying ofﬁ ce for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
Court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 One inch or less  
... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 Two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  The “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the ﬁ rst week of every month.
13.  All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                 ...             ...   4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) 
... ..  405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ...  860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ...  260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              
... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ...  5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ...  15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ...  ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                
... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.09.2017
2018
IMPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date speciﬁ ed for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times speci ﬁ ed below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufﬁ cient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
T
HE SCHEDULE
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2017
 SEPTEMBER  08.09.2017 Friday — 25.08.2017 Friday 12 noon
  15.09.2017 Friday –– 31.08.2017 Thursday 12 noon
  22.09.2017 Friday –– 08.09.2017 Friday 12 noon
  29.09.2017 Friday –– 15.09.2017 Friday 12 noon
 OCTOBER 06.10.2017 Friday — 22.09.2017 Friday 12 noon
  13.10.2017 Friday –– 29.09.2017 Friday 12 noon
  20.10.2017 Friday –– 06.10.2017 Friday 12 noon
  27.10.2017 Friday –– 13.10.2017 Friday 12 noon
 NOVEMBER 02.11.2017 Thursday — 20.10.2017 Friday 12 noon
  10.11.2017 Friday –– 27.10.2017 Friday 12 noon
  17.11.2017 Friday –– 02.11.2017 Thursday 12 noon
  24.11.2017 Friday –– 10.11.2017 Friday 12 noon
  30.11.2017 Thursday –– 17.11.2017 Friday 12 noon
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,  
01st January, 2017.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.