

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'01
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.08.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2082$39 - 2018 wf.daia;= ui 01 jeks nodod - 2018'08'01
No. 2082/39 -  WEDNESDAY  AUGUST  01,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A  -  PG  4153 —  27   (08/2018)
NORTHERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Northern Province Co-operative Employees Commission Statute
No. 07 of 2017
NOTICE is hereby given that the Northern Province Provincial Council has adopted the Northern Province Co-operative
Employees Commission Statute No. 07 of 2017 on 24 August 2017 and that the Hon. Governor Northern Province has given
his Assent to it on 25 July 2018.
R. VARA THEESW ARAN,
Secretary,
Council Secretariat,
Northern Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
A 9 Road,
Kaithady.
27th July, 2018.
Northern Province Provincial Council
Co-operative Employees Commission
Statute No: 07 of 2017
A statute to establish and incorporate a Commission to be known as the Nothern Province Co-operative employees
Commission of the Northern Provincial Council in terms of  sub item 17.3 and 17.4 of item 17 of list 1 of the Ninth
Schedule to the 13th Amendment to the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to make special
Provisions in respect of Employees of Co-operative Societies within the Northern Province and to provide for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.
This Statute is inconsistent with the Co-operative Employees Commission Act, No. 12 of 1972 read with the Co-
operative Employees Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 51 of 1992.
Be it enacted by the Northern Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'01
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.08.2018
2A
1. This statute may be cited as the Northern Province Provincial Council Co-operative Employees
Commission Statute No. 07 of 2017 of the Provincial Council of the Northern Province of Sri
Lanka and shall come into operation on the date of assent of the Governor, Northen Province.
2. The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, exempt from the succeeding provisions of
this Statute.
(a) any such class of Co-operative Societies within the Northern Province as shall be specified
therein; or
(b) any such Co-operative Societies within the Northern Province as shall be so spcified and
accordingly the expression “Co-operative Society whenever it occurs in such Provisions
shall be read and construed to mean a Co-operative society in respect of which any such
order is not for the time being in force.
PART I
Constitution, Powers and Functions of the Northern Provincial
Co-operative Employees Commission
3. For the purpose of this Statute, an Authority to be called and known as the Northern Provincial
Co-operative Employees Commission shall be established
4. (1) The Commission shall be constituted in accordance with the succeeding provisions of
this section.
(2) The Commission shall consist of three members appointed by the Minister in charge of
the subject of co-operatives of Northern Province.
(3) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a member if she/ he is -
(a) An employee or past employee of a Co-operative Society ; or
(b) A person who is a member of any body of persons which, in the opinion of the
Minister, is a staff of an association, or trade union,  which has as its objects, the
regulation of salaries wages or conditions of service of any category of persons
employed by Co-operative Societies ; or
(c) A person who is an officer or was an officer of a Co-operative Society according to
the law relating to Co-operative Societies ; or
(d) A person who is for the time being a Member of Parliament or a Member of a
Provincial Counicl or a Member of a local authority.
(e)  A person who acted as a legal representative in pending legal proceedings of a Co-
operative Society or on behalf of employees or as an officer who monitors the
conduct of employees or an officer, who looks into the appeal of employees.
(f) A person who is for the time being an employee of the Ministry or Department in
charge of Co-operative Development.
Short Title and
Date of
operation
Power of
Minister to
exempt co-
operative
societies from
the succeedding
provisions of this
Statute
Establishment of
Co-operative
Employees
Commission
Constitution
of  the
Commission.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'01
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.08.2018
5. The Commission shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and
may sue and be sued in its corporate capacity.
6. (1) Each member of the Commission shall hold office for the period of three years from the date
of his appointment provided that notwithstanding the term of any such appointment-
(a) Any such member may at any time resign her/ his office by writing under her/ his
hand addressed to the Minister or be removed from office by the Minister for valid
reasons and ;
(b) Any such member shall, upon his becoming disqualified in terms of section 4 (3),
vacate his office :
Provided further that any persons who is appointed to fill any vacancy caused by the
death, resignation or removal from or vacation of office, of any such member shall unless
she/ he vacates office earlier, hold office during a period equal to the unexpired portion of
the term of office of the member in whose place she/ he is appointed and no longer.
(2) Any person who served as a member of the Commission for a term of office shall be
eligible for reappointment subject to the decision of the Minister and limited to two terms
only.
7. (1) The Minister shall appoint one of the member of the Commission to be its Chairman. The
Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Commission at which she/ he is present. In the
absence of the Chairman from any meeting of the Commission any member chosen by
those present may preside there at.
(2) Two members shall constitute the quorum for a meeting.
(3) If at any meeting only two membes of the Commission are present and such members are
divided in opinion as to the decision to be taken on any question, such question shall be
referred to a meeting at which the three members of the Commisison are present.
(4) If at any meeting, at which the three members of the Commission are present, and if the
members are divided in opinion as to the decision to be given on any question, such
question shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority of the members present.
(5) The Commission may regulate its own procedure in any matter not provided for in this
Statute or any regulation made there under.
(6) Any Statute or proceeding of the Commission shall not invalid by reason only of the
existence of a vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment of any of its
members.
8. The Chairman and members of the Commission shall be paid such remuneration and such
allowances as may be determined by the Minister, in consultation with the Minister of the
Province to whom the subject or funtion of finance has been assigned.
9. (1) There shall be a Secretary of the Commission who shall be a member of the Sri Lanka
Administrative Service.
(2) The other members of the staff of the Commission shall be appoited from the transferable
service of the Provincial Public Service.
Incorporation of
the Commission
Chairman, and
conduct of
business
Term of Office
of members
Remuneration of
members
Secretary and
other officers

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'01
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.08.2018
4A
10. (1) The members of the Commission shall on first appointment take an oath or make an
affirmation in the form I set out in the Schedule to this Statute.
(2) The Secretary to the Commisison, and such of the other officers of the Commisison as may
be required so to do by the Chairman there of, shall on first appointment, take an oath or
make an affirmation in the from II set out in the schedule to this Statute.
11. (1) The Commission shall have the following powers.
(a) to determine all matters relating to methods of recruitment to or and conditions of
employment of employees of, Co-operative Socities, and the principles to be followed
by such societies in making appointments and in making promotions from one
post, in a Co-operative Society to another post in the same society ;
(b) to conduct examinations for recruitment of employees of Co-operative Societies or
to appoint boards of examiners for the purpose of conducting such examinations
and to charge fees from candidates presenting themselves for examinations ;
(c) to determine the qualifications necessary for appointment to any such post, to fix
the scales of salaries to be attached to any such post or posts in any class or grade,
to revise or adjust such scales of salaries from time to time, in consultation with
the Commissioner and to establish such consultative machinery as the Commisison
may deem necessary to assist it in determininig the remuneration and condition of
service of co-operative employees ;
(d) to require Co-operative Socities to pay salaries in accordance with the salary scales
fixed by the Commission for any post or posts in any calss or grade ;
(e) to determine the procedure or procedures to be followed by any Co-operative Society
in exercising its rights of disciplinary action against its employees, to call upon any
Co-operative Society to complete disciplinary inquiries against its employees within
a time stipulated by the Commission and to hear appeals aristing out of any
disciplinary orders made by any Co-operative society ;
(f) to call upon any Co-operative Society to keep the prescribed records relating to
employess of that Society ;
(g) to call upon any Co-operative Society to furnish before a specified date such files,
other documents or information as the Commisison may require in respect of any
employees of that society ;
(h) to nominate a panel or panels of officers to make such inquiries as are necessary on
appeals that are referred by the Commisison to such panel or panels and to report
there on to the Commission ;
(i) to require any Co-operative Society to carry out such instruction as indicated there
in, including instructions relating  to reinstatement, as may be given by the
Commission in regard to any employees of such society, where the conduct of the
employee has been the subject of an inquiry and the employee had appealed to the
Commission against the decision of the society ;
(j) to determine the general principles in accordance with which  gratuity or other
benefits may be granted to employees on the termination of their services ;
Taking of Oaths
by members and
officers of the
Commission
Powers of the
Commission

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'01
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.08.2018
(k) to advise the Minister, in consultation with the Commissioner, in regard to the
exemption of any Co-operative Society or class of Co-operative Societies from the
operation of this Statute ;
(l) to exercise such other powers in relation to Co-operative Societies and their
employees as may be vested in the Commission by Order made by the Minister and
published in the Gazette after the approval of the Provincial Council.
(2)   In the exercise of  the powers vested in this Commission by sub section (1), the
Commission may modify, vary or revise or set aside any decision or determination
made by the Commission.
12. The expenses of the Commission shall be paid out of the moneys provided for the purpose by
the Provincial council annually.
PART II
Co-operative Societies and Their Employees
13. A Co-operative Society which for the time being pays out of its funds the salary and other
emolument of any employee shall be deemed to be the employer of such employee.
14. Any Co-operative Society, and any employee of such society, shall be subject to such directions
as may be given by the Commisison under this Statute, and all decisions of the Commission in
the discharge and exercise of its functions and powers under this Statute, subject to the
provisions of section 11. (2) shall be final, and shall be binding on, all such Co-operative
Societies as are not exempted from the operation of this Statute by Order made under section 2
by the Minister and on the employees of such societies.
15. All directions given by the Commission in regard to any employees of any Co-operative Society,
subject to the provisions of section 11. (2) Sahll be final and binding upon such employee as if
such directions were given by such society.
16. No person shall be appointed to any post in a Co-operative Society in any district unless that
person has been resident within that district for period of at least two years. Provided, however,
that where in the opinion of the commission, no suitable candidate is available for any post in
any Co-operative Society in that district, the commission may permit that society to fill that post
by appointing a suitable person from any other District in the Northern Province.
17. Any person appointed to any post in a Co-operative Society shall be assigned the scale of
salary pertaining to that post in accordance with the grading of such society and the grade or
class of employess as determined under section 25 (1).
18. Every Co-operative Society shall out of its funds pay the salary and other allowance, if any of its
employee.
19. (1) A Co-operative Society shall have the power to transfer any employee of such society
from any one of its work places to any other of its work places, and where such transfer is
made for any reason other than on disciplinary grounds, such transfer shall not adversely
affect the emoluments of any such employee.
Co-operative
societies and
their employees
to be subject to
directions of the
Commission
Directions of
the Commission
to be binding
upon employees
of co-operative
societies
Financial
provisions
Co-operative
society to be an
employer
Residential
Qualifications
Salaries of
employess of
co-operative
societies
Transfer of
employess of
co-operative
societies

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'01
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.08.2018
6A
(2) The Commission shall have the power to transfer any employees of a Co-operative
Society to another Co-operative Society as an employee  of the latter society at the
joint request of two employees holding permanent posts of similar status, provided that
the concurrence of  the  respective employers have been previously obtained.
(3) The Commission shall have the power to transfer any employee of a Co-operative Society
to another Co-operative Society at his own request to a position of equal status in the
other society provided that the concurrence of the respective  employers have been
previously obtained.
20. No employee of a Co-operative Society shall be dismissed or otherwise punished by any Co-
operative Society except in accordance with the provisions of this Statute or any regulations
made there under.
21. (1) A Co-operative Society shall not require any employee to furnish by way of securitry an
amount in excess of such sum as the Commission may prescribed.
(2) Any cash security furnished by any employees of a Co-operative Society shall be invested
in a bank in the name of the society, and an interest accruing thereon shall be paid to that
employee.
22. (1) Regulations may be made -
(a) In respect of the recruitment appointment, promotion, transfer, resignatiom and
termination of services of employees of Co-operartive Societies ;
(b) Prescribing such terms and conditions of employment of such employees and
providing for salary scales the payment of allowances and gratuities, the grant of
advances , promotions, leave, the interdiction of officers the termination of
appointments, dismissals or the imposition of any other form of punishment to such
employess and any appeal there from : and
(c) In respect of such other mattes relating to the terms of employment, or the conditions
of service, of such employees as are deemed necessary.
(2) Every regulations made in respect of any matter referred to in sub section (1) shall be
binding on all co-operative Societies and their employees within the Norther Province.
23. Every Co-operative Society shall -
(a) Keep and maintain in respect of every one of its employees the prescribed registered of
records and enter therein all such particulars relating to each such employee as may be
prescribed ;
(b) furnish to the Commission such returns or reports relating to its employess as may be
prescribed or such information as the Commisison may from time to time require ; and
(c) Permit any member or servant of the Commission authorized in that behalf to enter any of
its office and to inspect and take copies of any books, account, records or other documents
kept therein.
Dismissal and
Punishment of
employee of co-
operative
societies
Security
furnished by
employee of
co-operative
societies
Regulations
relating of
employees
Duties of
co-operative
societies in
respect of its
employees

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'01
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.08.2018
24. Every Co-operative Society which is an employer and every employee of such society shall
contribute periodically to the employees’ provident fund such amounts as may be required by
law.
PART III
Powers of the Commissioner
25. (1) The Commissioner shall have the power to grade each Co-operative Society for the purpose
of fixing scales of salaries for posts in Co-oprative Societies and to determine the grades
or classes of employees and the number of employees and the number of employees in
each such grade or class of any Co-operative Society and vary it as may be deemed
necessary from time to time.
(2) No Co-operative Society shall employ any person in contravention of the determination
made by the Commissioner under subsection (1).
26. The Commission shall, with the concurrence of the Commissioner, determine the qualifications
necessary for appointment to any post in Co-operative Societies, fix the scales of salary to be
attached to any such post or posts in any class or grade and revise such scales of salaries from
time to time.
PART IV
Miscellaneous
27. If in giving effect to the provisions of this Statute any doubt or dificulty arises in respect of any
matter or question for which no provision or no effective provision is made by this Statute, the
Minister may, by Order, remove or determine such doubt or difficulty. Every such order shall be
published in the Gazette, and upon such publication shall have the force of law and be as valid
and effectual as if it were herein enacted.
28. (1) Unless otherwise expressly provided, the Commission may make all such regulations as
may seem to the Commission to be necessary for carrying out the provisions of this
Statute or giving  effect to the principles thereof, including regulations for all matters for
or in respect of which regulations are authorized or required to be made under this Statute,
and all matters stated or required to be made under this Statute, and all matters stated or
required by this Statute to be prescribed.
(2) All regulations made by the Commission and approved by the Minister shall be published
in the Gazette and placed before the Northern Provincial Council within three months.
(3) Every regulation which is not approved by the Northern Provincial Council shall be deemed
to be rescinded from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
29. No action, prosecution or other proceeding, whether civil or criminal, shall be instituted or
maintained, against any individual member of the Commission in respect of any decision taken
or act done or omitted to be done by her/ him in her/ his capacity as such member or by the
commission in its corporate capacity.
Commissioner
to grade socities
and determine
staff
The Commission
to secure the
concurrence of
the
Commissioner
regarding
qualifications,
salary scales, &
c.
Provident fund
Removal of
difficulties
Commission to
make regulations
Immunity of
individual
members of the
Commission

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'01
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.08.2018
8A
30. Notwithstading the provisions of this Statute, a Co-operative Society may in the interest of its
efficient operation.
(a) Engage the service of an expert or any specialist for any defined term on a contractual
basis with the prior approval of the Commission ; or
(b) Engage casual or daily - paid employees or employees paid on a piece rate basis,
Provided, however, that no permanency of tenure of the office shall be granted to such
employees without the concurrence of the Commission.
31. (1) Any Co-opeative Society or any officer or employee there of -
(a) Which or who contavenes the provisions of this Statute, or
(b) Which or who willfully neglects or refuse or fails to provide any information required
by the Commission to be done, or to furnish any information required for the purpose
of this Statute by the Commission or other duly authorized person or ;
(c) which or who willfully makes a false return or furnishes false information, shall
be guilty of an offence under this Statute.
(2) Every co-operative Society or person which or who commits any offence referred to in
subsection I shall, on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine
not exceeding ten thousand rupees.
(3) Where any offence under this Statute is committed by a Co-operative Society, every
officer of that society shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence, unless he proves that
the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the Commission of the offence.
(4) If any Co-operative Society fail to carry out any instructions given by the Commission, as
regards the reinstatement of any employee, the Commissioner shall take suitable action
against the Society including the removal of any or all members of the Board of Director.
32. Every person who, otherwise than in the course of her/ his duty, directly or indirectly, by herself/
himself or by any other person, in any manner what so ever influence or attempts to influence
any decision of the Commission or any member thereof shall be guilty of an offence, and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding five Thousand
Rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both such fine and such
imprisonment.
33. Neither a member of the Commission, nor the secretary of the Commission, or any member of the
staff of the Commission, nor any other person shall publish or disclose to any person, otherwise
than in the exercise of his official functions, the contents of any documents, communication or
information whatsever which has come to her/ his notice in the course of her/ his duties.
34. No person shall in any legal proceedings be permitted  or compelled to produce or disclose any
communcation, written or oral, which has taken place between the Commission or any member,
or officer thereof, and any co-operative society or any member of the committee of management
of such society or officer thereof, or between any member or officer of the Commiisson in the
exercise of, or in connection with the exercise of any of the functions of the Commission unless
the Chairman shall consent in writing to such production or disclosure.
Engagement of
contractual
casual or daily
paid employees
Interference
with the
Commission
Communications
of the
Commission to
be privileged
Unauthorized
disclosure of
information
prohibited
Offences.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'01
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.08.2018
35. (1) A labour tribunal established under the Industrial Disputes Act shall not entertain an
application, by an employee, under section 31B of that Act for relief or redress in respect
of any matter if an appeal has been made to the Commission by such employee, in respect
of the same matter or substantially the same matter.
(2) The Commission shall not entertain an appeal from an employee in respect of any matter,
if an application has been made by such employee under section 31 B of the Industrial
Disputes Act, to a labour tribunal established under that Act, in respect of the same matter
or substantially the same matter.
36. In the event of any inconsistency among Tamil, Sinhala and English texts of the Statute, the
Tamil text shall prevail.
37. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Minister” means the minister to whom the subject of co-operative sector of the provincial
Council of the Northern Province, has been assigned.
“Commission” means the Northern Province Co-operative Employees Commission.
“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of
Co-opeative Societies of the Northern Provincial Council.
“Co-operative Society” means a society within the Northern Province registered under the
law relating the co-operative societies.
“Province” means the administrative of the Northern Province.
“District” means the administrative District under the administrative Districts Statute.
“Employee” means a permanent employee appointed by a registered co-operative society
within the Northern Province receiving a salary or other remuneration from it.
SCHEDULE  I
Oath or affirmation of member of the Commission under the subsection 10 (1) of
the Statute of the Co-operative Employees Commission by the Chairman/ Member of
the Co-operative Employees Commission of Northern Province
I ..................................................... having been appointed the Chairman/ a member of the Co-operative
Employees Commission do swear/ solemnly and sincerely affirm that I will, without fear or favor, affection
or ill - will, discharge the functions of the office of Chairman/ Member of the Co-operative Employees
Commission of the Northern Provincial Council and that I will not, directly,or in directly  reveal any matters
relating to such functions to any person otherwise than in the course of duty.
Chairman/ Member
Sworn/ Affirmed before me this ............... day of .......... 20..........
.........................................
Judge of the Provincial High Court
Application of
the Industrial
Disputes Act to
co-operative
societies and
their employees
Tamil text to
prevail in case
of any
inconsistency
interpretation

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'01
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.08.2018
10A
Schedule II
Oath or affirmation of member of the Commission under the subsection 10 (2) of
the Statute of the Co-operative Employees Commission by the Secretary/Employee of
the Co-operative Employees Commission of Northern Province
I ..................................................... having been called upon to exercise the functions of the Secretary of/ an Officer of the
Co-operative Employees Commission of the Northern Provincial Council do hereby swear/ solemnly and sincerely affirm that
I will not, directly or indirectly, reveal to any person otherwise than in the course of duty the contents or any part of the
contents of any documents, communication or information whatsover which may come to my knowledge in the course of my
duties as the secretary/ an Officer of the Co-operative Employees Commission of the Northerm Provincial Council.
Sworn/ Affirmed before me this ............... day of .......... 20..........
.........................................
Chairman of the Co-operative
Employees Commission
Northern Provincial Council
08-563
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.