

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1709$4 - 2011 cqks 06 jeks i÷od - 2011'06'06
No. 1709/4  -  MONDAY ,   JUNE   06,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
UVA   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Statute of  “Provincial Ayurveda and Indigenous Medicine Services” of No. 06 of 2011 of the Uva Provincial Council
THE above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 28th April, 2011, has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 10th of May 2011 and which is hereby published for the
notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA,
Council   Secretary,
Uva  Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
King Street,
Badulla,
25th of May, 2011.
1A
AYURVEDA  AND  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE  SERVICES  STA TUTE   BEARING NO. 6  OF  2011  OF  UV A   PROVINCE
A Statute enacted to provide regulations to establish other posts including Ayurveda Commissioner, Hospital Committees
for Ayurveda Hospitals, Training Management Board, Ayurveda Conservation Sabhas and Advisiory Sabhas under the
Uva Provincial Ayurveda Department and to maintain them properly and to fulfill other consequent matters to it for the
conservation, development and expansion of Indigenous Ayurveda, Sidha and Unani Medicine methods for the healthiness
of the people of Uva Province.
The Provincial Council of the Uva Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka enacts as follows :–
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1. This Statute is defined as the Indigenous Medicine Services Statute bearing No. 6 of 2011  and
will be implemented on a date approved by the Governor of Uva Province.
Abbreviated
name and date of
implementation.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
2A
2. To fulfil the purposes and objects mentioned hereinafter a Post of Provincial Ayurveda
Commission will be established by this under the Ayurveda Department (hereinafter mentioned
as the Department) of Uva Province.
3. (1) Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner established under this Statute will be the Head of the
Provincial Ayurveda Department by that name and designation.
(2) Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner should be a Medical Officer of the Sri Lanka Ayurveda
Service and he should be appointed by the Governor of Uva Province in relevance to
Section 32 of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
(3) The Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner should perform the duties of his post under the
orders and directives of the Secretary of the Uva Provincial Indigenous Medicine Ministry.
4. (1) Other officers including Deputy Ayurveda Commissioners and Assistant Ayurveda
Commissioners Ayurveda Programma Assistants required for the approved staff the
Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner thinks necessary to perform the workload of the
Department should be appointed by the Governor of Uva Province to the Uva Provincial
Public Service Commission as and when required.
(2) All the officers and minor staff employed in the Uva Provincial Ayurveda Department
holding approved posts prior to the implementation of this statute should be considered as
appointed under this Statute.
5. The Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner should perform his duties to fulfil the under mentioned
purposes and objects subjected to the allocation set apart by the Uva Provincial Council :-
(1) Establishing institutes and supplying services required for health safety and improvement,
to provide treatment facilities and also for primary health development in respect of the
healthiness of people.
(2) Providing facilities required to establish Ayurveda Community Health Units at Divisional
Secretary Division levels.
(3) Diagnosing diseases according to Ayurveda and taking action for Public Health Development
and encouraging it.
(4) Granting Scholarships and other facilities to persons involved in the service of proposed to
be employed in the services of the Department granting financial aids and other assistances
to institutes involved in providing courses or research affairs in respect of Ayurveda and
encouraging the study of Ayurvedaya and connected research affairs.
(5) Conservation and development of hereditary and indigenous medical methods and improving
their standards.
(6) Establishing a Provincial Ayurveda Museum for the protection of hereditary medical
knowledge, ola leaf books and medical equipment intrinsic to Uva Province and providing
facilities required to maintain it.
(7) Maintaining herb parks and nurseries in the Province, supplying maintenance and required
facilities and instigating to implement a self employment programme under it.
Establishment
of a Provincial
Ayurveda
Commissioner
Post.
Provincial
Ayurveda
Commissioner.
Appointment of
other officers
and minor staff.
Purposes and
Objects.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
(8) Establishing a Provincial Drug Manufactury to manufacture finished drugs necessary, to
the province in the province.
(9) Popularizing indigenous medical methods and creating income generating methods by
combining with the tourist industry.
(10) Assisting for the co-ordination required to purchase harmful drugs.
6. The Ayurveda Commissioner has the following powers subjected to the regulations of the
Statute :–
(1) In fulfilling the purposes specified in Section 5 establishing and maintaining or providing to
establish and maintain Ayurveda hospitals, Ayurveda Drug Manufacturies, Ayurveda Drug
Deposits, Ayurveda Treatment Centres, Ayurveda Drug Stores, herb parks and plant
nurseries, an Ayurveda Museum and Ayurveda Drug Sale Centres and Provincial, District,
Divisional Indigenous Medical and Ayurveda Conservation Boards or giving aids and
encouragement to them by the Ayurveda Commissioner.
(2) Implementing the decision taken by the institutes built and established under this Statute
subjected to the recommendation of those institutes.
(3) Maintaining the data and statistics of the institutes established under this Statute
methodically and in an up to date manner.
(4) Inspecting whether all the statutory institutes established under this Statute are maintained
in a high quality standard and according to present recommendations and submit reports
regarding them from time to time.
(5) Registering the Ayurveda Institutes controlled by the Provincial Ayurveda Drug Control
Board according to the recommendations of that Board and issuing certificates.
7. An Advisory Board should be established to give advices to the Minister in Charge of the
subject to achieve the intended purposes of this Statute. That Advisory Board should be
appointed by the Minister and its composition should be as following :-
(1) Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subjects.
(2) Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner.
(3) A representative appointed by the Honourable Minister in charge of the Provincial
Indigenous Medicine subject.
(4) A retired executive officer of the Administrative Service or Education field.
(5) Provincial Health Services Director or a representative of his.
(6) A representative of the lecturing staff named by the Vice Chancellor of Uva Wellassa
University.
(7) Two members of the Ayurveda Conservation Board to represent Badulla and Moneragala
Districts.
Powers and
duties of the
Ayurveda
Commissioner.
Establishing and
Advisory Board
4 — PG 001255

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
4A
8. From the money and allocations approved by the Parliament and the Provincial Council the
Ayurveda Commissioner can grant a certain amount with the prior approval of the Minister to
the following in fulfilling the purposes specified in Section 5 :-
(1) Provincial Ayurveda Education and Training Management Board,
(2) Provincial Ayurveda Research Board.
(3) Provincial Ayurveda Drug Control Board
(4) Any other institute established and maintained for Ayurveda Improvement and conservation.
(5) Any other suitable person or persons to continue Ayurveda education affairs.
(6) Provincial, District and Divisional Ayurveda Conservation Boards.
9. (1) When the Ayurveda Commissioner has registered a certain place at present as an Ayurveda
hospital an Ayurveda Treatment Centre, an Ayurveda Drug Manufactury, an Ayurveda Drug
Deposit, Herb Park an Ayurveda Drug Store, an Ayurveda Drug Sale Centre and unless the
person maintaining that hospital, drug manufactury, drug deposit, treatment centre, drug
store or drug sale centre, Ayurveda hospitality centre has been registered as the owner of
that, whatever a place should not be used for a Ayurveda hospital, an Ayurveda Treatment
Centre an Ayurveda Drug Manufactury, an Ayurveda Drug Deposit, an Ayurveda Drug Sale
Centre and a Ayurveda Hospitality Centre from and after a date that can be ordered by an
order published in the Gazette in that respect by the Minister.
(2) The fixed date published by an order under Sub-section 9(1) should not be a date this side
of three months from the date published accordingly.
(3) In an instance a certain place is used for the activities of an Ayurveda Hospital, an Ayurveda
treatment centre, an Ayurveda Drug manufactury, an Ayurveda Drug deposit, herb park, an
Ayurveda drug store, or an Ayurveda Drug sale centre, an Ayurveda hospitality centre by
violating the regulations in Sub-section 9(1) in this, the owner or the person in charge of
that hospital that drug manufactury, that drug store, that treatment centre that herb park,
that drug sale centre, that Ayurveda hospitality centre will be doing an offence under this
Statute, After conviction in a Magistrate Court in respect of and such an offence should be
subjected to a fine not less than Rupees Ten Thousand and not more than Rupees Fifty
Thousand.
10. (1) The Minister can enact orders under this Statute in respect of the undermentioned one
matter or all the matters :–
(a) Forwarding applications to register a certain place as an Ayurveda hospital, An Ayurveda
treatment centre, an Ayurveda drug manufactury an Ayurveda drug deposit, herb park, an
Ayurveda drug store or an Ayurveda drug sale centre, an Ayurveda hospitality centre and
charging fees for registration.
Financial aids.
Ayurveda
hospitals,
Ayurveda Drug
Manufacturies,
Ayurveda Drug
Deposits, Herb
Parks, Ayurveda
Treatment
centres,
Ayurveda Drug
Stores, Ayurveda
Drug Sale
Centre and
Ayurveda
hospitality
centres should
be registered.
The Minister
can enact orders

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
(b) Specimen of that application and details that should be included in that application
(c) The period that registration should be valid and granting of certificates regarding the
renewal of that registration after the payment of the specified fee.
(d) Instances the renewal and rejection of that registration.
(e) In respect of the finality of the decision given by the Minister regarding appeals submitted
to the Minister against the refusals of requests submitted for that registration or renewal or
renewal of the registration or cancelling the registration.
(f) Specifications and conditions that should be followed regarding registered Ayurveda
hospitals Ayureda drug manufacturies, Ayurveda drug deposits, herb parks, Ayurveda
treatment centres, Ayurveda drug stores or Ayurveda drug sale centres or Ayurveda
hospitality centres.
(g) Reports and Bank reports and ledgers that should be maintained by them.
(h) Particulars that should  enter  in the said reports including reports that should be supplied
from time to time in respect of those institutes and statistics of patients admitted to them
and treatments obtained from them and particulars of staff employed in them.
(i) Specifications in respect of fees and charges that can be recovered by the relevant institutes.
(j) Powers regarding entering and inspecting those institutes.
(k) The duty of registering the relevant centres and the registers that should be kept and
maintained by the Ayurveda Commissioner.
(l) Health safety of persons taking treatments in the said institutes and treating them properly
and providing service facilities.
11. (1) Orders enacted by the Minister under this Statute should be published in the Gazette.
(2) After the publications of the orders enacted under this by a gazette they should be forwarded
to the Provincial Council as early as possible for approval and after they have been approved
by the Provincial Council that approval must be announced by a gazette paper. From the
date that announcement of approval is published in the gazette paper they will be in force.
12. A certain amount of drugs required for patient treatment in free dispensaries maintained under
the Local Government Department in the Uva Province can be supplied from the drugs
manufactured in the Uva Provincial Drug Manufactury.
13. (1) Steps should be taken to establish herb parks and herb nurseries in the premises of Ayurveda
Hospitals, Central Dispensaries and selected schools and Government Institutes in the
Province with the purpose of conserving indigenous drugs and plant varieties going extinct
and fixing name boards to identify them and educate people.
(2) When obtaining Government land to establish herb parks lands should be obtained according
to regulations enacted under the Government Land Ordinance bearing No. 08 of 1947 which
is the Authority 454.
Free Ayurveda
Dispensaries.
Establishment
of herb parks.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
6A
(3) Maintaining herb parks and maintaining herb nurseries is the responsibility fo the Divisional
Ayurveda Conservation Committee mentioned hereinafter subjected to the supervision of
the Provincial Ayurveda Commission.
(4) Sale of plants from herb plant nurseries  will be legal under this Statute.
14. (1) A Board that should be defined by the name Ayurveda Education and Training Management
Board of the Province hereinafter mentioned as the Board should be established.
(2) The said Board should consist of the members mentioned below :–
(a) Ayurveda Commissioner ;
(b) Deputy Ayurveda Commissioner or an officer name by the Ayurveda Commissioner ;
(c) Director of the Diyatalawa Ayurveda Hospital and the Director of the Medagama
Ayurveda Hospital ;
(d) Two doctors from other Ayurveda Institutes and Local Government Institutes
appointed on the recommendation of the Minister.
(e) Three doctors not in Government service who have received Indigenous, Hereditary
or Institutional Training selected on the recommendation of the Minister.
(f) After preparing a suitable constitution for the activities of this Provincial Ayurveda
Educational and Training Management Board it should be published in the gazette
paper with the agreement of the Minister in charge of the Indigenous Medicine
subject.
(g) The official period of the said Board should be three years and the quorum should
not be less than one third of the number of members available on that date.
15. The following powers should be with the Training Management Board.
(1) Identify and implement training requirements in the State sector relevant to the Provincial
Ayurvedaya.
(2) Identity and implement training requirements of hereditary and indigenous Ayurveda doctors
in the Province.
(3) Decide and maintain appropriate courses for other services relevant to Ayurveda sector.
(4) Award relevant scholarships, student allowances and other gifts or aids to persons involved
in Ayurveda educations.
(5) Implement an manage education systems and training programmes.
(6) Appoint a training staff.
(7) Submit recommendation to the Ayurveda Medical Council for awards, commendation papers
or certifications.
Establishment
of Provincial
Ayurveda
Educational and
Training
Management
Board.
Powers of the
Board.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
16 (1) An Institution defined as the Provincial Ayurveda Research Board hereinafter mentioned as
the Research Board should be established.
(2) The Minister should appoint the Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner or the Deputy Ayurveda
Commissioner mentioned in Section 4.1 of this Statute as the Director of the Research
Board.
(3) The Research Board should consist of the number of members mentioned below :–
(a) Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner ;
(b) Director of Nawinna Ayurveda Research Institute of a representative of his ;
(c) An officer assigned to the Ayurveda Community Health Service named by the Provincial
Ayurveda Commissioner.
(d) A person from specialist doctors appointed on the recommendation of the Minister.
(e) Director of Diyatalawa Ayurveda Hospital
(f) Medical Superintendent of Medagama Ayurveda Hospital
(g) Two doctors employed in the Provincial or Local Government Institutes.
(h) A doctor from indigenous or Hereditary Ayurveda doctors appointed on the
recommendation of the Minister.
(4) Official period of the Research Board is three years. Quorum should not be less than one
third.
(5) After compiling an appropriate constitution for the activities of the above Provincial
Ayurveda Research Board by the Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner it should be published
in the gazette paper on the agreement of the Secretary of the Provincial Indigenous Medicine
Ministry and the Minister in charge of the Provincial Indigenous Medicine subject.
17. The responsibility in respect of holding research affairs in all the sections of Ayurveda and
specially the undermentioned activities with the idea of improving Ayurveda development and
the said affairs is vested with the Research Board established under Section 16.1 above :-
(1) Prepare a Research Policy and implement
(2) Establish and maintain an Ayurveda Museum that can conserve hereditary knowledge.
(3) Holding research affairs regarding herb plants raw drugs, finished drugs and various
products.
(4) Conduct research affairs according to current necessities regarding disease causes and
therapy methods for them.
(5) Management regarding Ayurveda research and such research institutes.
Establishment of
Provincial
Ayurveda
Research Board.
Workload of the
Research Board.
5 
- PG  001255

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
8A
(6) Perform research affairs in respect of :
(a) Ayurveda Literature;
(b) Principles of Ayurveda knowledge
(c) Ayurveda Chemotherapy
(d) Astrology, rituals, secret treatment and other associated various remedial methods.
(e) Perform research affairs about other indigenous natural medical methods confirming to
Ayurvedaya
(7) Perform research affairs regarding Materai Medica
(8) Perform research affairs regarding
“Wrukshayurvedaya and Sathvayurvedaya”
(9) It is the responsibility of the Research Board to follow the directives relevant to research
affairs made by the Ayurveda Medical Council from time to time and to publish research
policies.
(10) Pay attention to and take action to control invasive and migratory plants harmful to herbal
plants required for Ayurvedaya.
18. The Research Board should have the following powers
(1) Recommend to enact regulations in respect of Research Institutes, research affairs and
researchers.
(2) Formulate a proposed research programme for each and every year and maintain the research
indicators performed earlier in an up to date manner.
(3) To appoint control sub-committees for Ayurveda Research institutes established under
this Statute and enact relevant by-laws to them.
(4) To obtain indigenous, hereditary or other current inter activity co-operation thought suitable
by the Research Board in instances where the Research Board decides necessary for Ayurveda
affairs.
(5) To obtain the co-operation of categories owned by institutes.
(6) If a local person or a foreign person, a company or an institute outside of the Ayurveda
Department is enjoying any research result performed by the direction of Ayurveda
Department there is a right to obtain financial or any other similar benefit and the right to
enter into procedure necessary for that.
(7) A staff decided form time to time should be appointed to perform the above mentioned
duties
19 (1) A  provincial Ayurveda Drug Appraisal Board hereinafter mentioned as the Appraisal Board
should be established.
Powers of the
Board.
Provincial
Ayurveda Drug
Appraisal Board

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
(2) One person from the Deputy or Assistant Ayurveda Commissioners mentioned in Section
4.1 of this Statute should be appointed by the Minister as the Director of the Drug Appraisal
Board.
(3) The Drug Appraisal Board should consist of the following number of members :–
(a) The Chief Medical Officers’ of the Provincial Drug Manufactury ;
(b) The Chief Apothecary of the Provincial Drug Manufactury ;
(c) One doctor from the teaching staff of the Provincial Ayurveda Educational Institute
appointed on the recommendation of the Minister ;
(d) One person from the Heads of the registered Ayurveda Drug Manufacturies in the
Province appointed on the recommendation of the Minister ;
(4) The Provincial Ayurveda Drug Appraisal Board should have the following powers :–
(a) To create and implement a Drug Policy in the Province ;
(b) To systemise the distribution and use of drug in the Province ;
(c) To systemise supervision of Ayurveda Drug Manufacturies in the State and Private
Sector and introduce standards ;
(d) To safeguard the quality of drugs and to certify unharmful ;
(e) To make certain that all drugs are manufactured subjected to Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of
1961 and Amendment Acts relevant to it and legal regulations in Sri Lanka Ayurveda
Drug Code ;
(f) The submit recommendations to Ayurveda Commissioner to take legal action regarding
products made in a contravening manner to harmful as well as other consequent Acts ;
(g) To establish Ayurveda drug products selling places in the Province. charge registration
fees train and appoint dispensers and cancel registrations ;
(h) To identify, introduce and implement other legal allocations existing at present regarding
Ayurveda drugs and regarding maintaining drug deposits ;
(i) Exporting Ayurveda finished drugs, dry and raw drugs and obtaining patent permits for
medicinal plants intrinsic to Uva Province should happen on the approval of the
Secretary of the Provincial Ministry on the recommendation of the Provincial Ayurveda
Commissioner ;
(j) Issue licenses, recommend and fix license fees required to transport natural drug
available in the Uva Province to outside of the Province ;
20 (1) Official period for all the Boards will be three calender years. General matters.
Provincial
Ayurveda Drug
Appraisal Board.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
10A
(2) Official period of the Boards can be terminated after an announcement published in a
Gazette paper according to the discretion of the Minister ;
(3) Quorum of a Board should not be less than one third ;
(4) Meetings of all the Boards should be held at least once a month ;
(5) A remuneration approved by the Minister can be paid to the members in respect of a
meeting session of a Board ;
(6) Not attending three meeting sessions will cause the abolishment of the membership.
21 (1) Hospital Development Committees should be established in affiliation with every Ayurveda
Hospital and Central Dispensary with the purpose of providing a quality service by an
Ayurveda Hospital and an Ayurveda Central Dispensary and for the development of the
said institutes and to provide facilities and advices for that and also to create a close
relationship among the people ;
(2) The said Ayurveda Development Committees should consist of the following members :–
(a) The chairman of the Hospital Development Committee should be the doctor in charge
of the Institute and the Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner, Head of Local Government
Institutes  and the Divisional Secretary will be appointed as patrons by virture of their
posts. The agreement of the Minister of Provincial Indigenous Medicine should be
received to this Committee ;
(b) The Secretary of the Committee should be the convenor of the Hospital Development
Committee A Secretary should be appointed from the committee members.
22. The following should be appointed as the Hospital Development Committee members. Committee
members are limited to a maximum of 25.
(1) A  maximum of 05 from Heads of Institutes in the area the hospital is situated ;
(2) A  maximum of 03 from Heads of Security Sections in the territory ;
(3) A  maximum of 08 from Heads of V oluntary Organizations (religious leaders, employees
business community and donors)
(4) A  maximum 05 from hospital staff ;
(5) The balance members will be selected and appointed from the people living in the area.
23 (1) A Hospital Development Committee can maintain a Hospital Development Fund and that
should be properly accounted.
(2) Act, No. 42 of 1987 is relevant in respect of auditing these funds ;
(3) Financial year of the fund will be a calender year ;
(4) Preparing a relevant constitution to perform the duties and activities of the above Hospital
Committee and with the agreement of the Minister in charge of the Indigenous Medicine
subject should be published in the Gazette paper.
Establishment
of Ayurveda
Hospital
Committees.
Accounting of
funds and
auditing.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
(5) Prior approval of the Ayurveda Commissioner should be obtained for expenditure that will
be done from Rupees Ten Thousand to Rupees Fifty Thousand and the approval of the
Secretary of the Ministry in charge should be obtained when spending a higher amount
than that.
24 (1) Service period of all the members will be three years.
(2) The Minister has the power of appointing and dismissing members of the Hospital Committee
and the power of dissolving Committees.
(3) Any member of the Committee can resign anytime by informing the Minister in writing.
Accepting or rejecting that resignation should happen on the discretion of the Minister.
(4) Quorum of a Committee meeting should not be less that one third.
(5) The Chairman should hold the Chair at Committee meeting and in his absence a Chairman
elected on a majority agreement of the members has the power to continue the affairs of the
Committee. Decisions taken by that Committee should be effective.
(6) The Committee should meet at least once in two months and the Committee report should
have to be submitted to the Ayurveda Commissioner by the Secretary.
(7) Committee members or the spouse of a Committee member or a family member should not be
bounded by any supplying, purchasing or contract agreement.
(8) If involved in a prohibited affair mentioned in Sub-section 7 above, after a inquiry regarding
that the Secretary of the Committee should submit recommendation to the Minister to the
Minister to dismiss that member.
(9) Except within the period the Head of the Institute has allowed in writing to perform his
duties a committee member should not enter or inspect an institute alone at any time.
25. By “the Governor” the Governor of Uva Province is meant.
By “the Cabinet”   Cabinet of the Uva Provincial Council is meant.
By “the Minister” the Minister in charge of the Indigenous Medicine subject of the Uva Provincial
Council is meant. By the Minister in charge of Uva  Provincial Health subject, the Honourable
Governor of Uva Province is meant in an instance the Provincial Council is dissolved.
By “the Chief Secretary” the Chief Secretary of Uva Provincial Council is meant.
By “the Secretary” the Secretary of the Ministry in charge of Indigenous Medicine of the Uva
Provincial Council is meant.
By “the Commissioner” the Ayurveda Commissioner of Uva Provincial Council is meant.
By “the Local Government Institutes” Municipal Councils, Urban Councils and Pradeshiya Sabhas
in the Uva Province are meant.
To “Ayurvedaya” Medical methods and surgeries in Ayurvedaya, Sinani, Unani and Indigenous
remedy methods, Panchakarma treatment methods, Spa treatments, other medical methods
Service period of
the Committee
and the workload
Interpretation.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'06
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2011
12A
indigenous to different countries accepted as such by the Governments of different countries
are included and also herbal, natural, indigenous, alternate parallel, eastern, hereditary,
compementary and or any other treatment method or methods giving a similar meaning
implemented in Sri Lanka or disease preventing or health improvement method or methods
are included .
By “Indigenous doctor and Hereditary doctor” all the indigenous doctors registered or not
registered residing in the Uva Province are  meant.
By “consequent other services” astrologers, persons involved in spiritualism are meant.
By  “herb parks” parks with kind of trees, creepers plants used for indigenous, hereditary and
Ayurveda  Medical Science are meant.
If a discrepancy occurs among the Sinhalese, Tamil and English versions of this Statute, then the
Sinhalese version should be made effective.
Discrepancy.
06-408
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.