

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2339$31 - 2023 cQ,s ui 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'07'07
No. 2339/31  -  friday,   July  07,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6380 - 366 (07/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
l.d.-b. 3/2021 (ii)
ThE  COLOmbO  PORT  CITY  ECONOmIC  COmmISSION  ACT,  No. 11 Of  2021
rEGulaTiONS made by the Minister of investment Promotion in consultation with the Colombo Port City Economic 
Commission and the relevant regulatory authorities under Section 71 of  the Colombo Port City Economic Commission 
act, No. 11 of 2021, read with Sections 27, 36, 37, 39, 40 and 64 of that act.
 Ranil WickRemesinghe,
 Minister of investment Promotion.
Colombo.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the Colombo Port City (authorised Persons Engaged in business) regulations 
No. 1 of 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'07'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2023
2a
ParT i
Dividends or other financial benefits payable by an Authorised Person
2. a person or company referred to in subsection (5) of section 27 of the act shall pay a dividend or any other 
financial benefit on the investment which forms part of such investment under that subsection to the investor in a designated 
foreign currency other than in Sri lanka rupees.
3. Where the Commission has leased out Marketable land to a person or company under section 39 of the act and 
a dividend or any other financial benefits accrues to the investor  within a period of five years from the date of the lease 
paid, such dividend or other financial benefit shall be remitted into a resident foreign Currency account of the investor 
maintained in the name of such investor with a licensed commercial bank.
ParT ii
Conversion of Sri Lanka Rupees into Designated foreign Currencies
4. an authorised person engaged in business in and from the area of authority of the Colombo Port City, may 
accept payments in Sri lanka rupees in respect of any goods or services provided by such authorized person within the area 
of authority of the Colombo Port City to a citizen of Sri lanka or resident, subject to the following conditions :-
 (a) any amount so accepted by such authorised person shall be deposited in a Sri lanka rupee account maintained 
with a licensed commercial bank ;
 (b) the Sri lanka rupees received by the authorized person under this regulation may be utilized by the authorised 
person in the normal course of his business ; and
 (c) the amount referred to in paragraph (a), may be converted into a designated foreign currency only through a 
licensed commercial bank.
ParT iii
Engaging in business with a Citizen of Sri Lanka or Resident by an Authorised Person
5. an authorized person who intends to engage in business in Sri lanka with a citizen of Sri lanka or a resident 
who is engaged in business in Sri lanka outside the area of authority of the Colombo Port City in terms of subsection (1) 
of section 37 of the act, shall make an application for such purpose to the Commission.
6. upon receipt of an application under regulation 5, the Commission shall, after considering the matters contained 
therein, either issue an authorisation in writing to such authorised person to engage in such business, or for reasons to be 
recorded, refuse to issue an authorisation. 
7. an authorised person to whom an authorisation has been granted under regulation 6 - 
 (a) shall not engage in business for the sole purpose of transacting business with a citizen of Sri lanka or a resident 
who is engaged in business in Sri lanka outside the area of authority of the Colombo Port City ; and 
 (b) shall generate more that half of the total revenue of his business, from business transacted with persons other 
than a citizen of Sri lanka or a resident who is engaged in business in Sri lanka outside the area of authority 
of the Colombo Port City.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'07'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2023
3a
8. Every authorisation issued under regulation 6 shall be subject to such terms and conditions specified therein.
9. The authorised person to whom an authorisation is issued under regulation 6 shall not be entitled to claim or 
receive any exemptions or incentives as provided for in the Part iX of the act or under any other Part of the act, in relation 
to such business.
10. The Commission may revoke an authorisation issued under regulation 6, if it is satisfied that the authorised 
person has violated any of the terms and  condition of such authorisation.
ParT iV
Transfer, Lease or Rent of marketable Land paid for in Sri Lanka Rupees
11. a person who, or company which, has made payment for the lease or transfer of any Marketable land in Sri 
lanka rupees and in turn transfers, leases or rents such property to a third party as provided for in section 39 of the act 
shall remit the sum so received in a designated foreign currency into a resident foreign Currency account maintained in 
the name of such person or company with a licensed commercial bank in Sri lanka outside the area of authority of the 
Colombo Port City.
ParT V
Utilization of Retail facilities
12. a citizen of Sri lanka or a resident may utilize retail facilities or services provided by an authorised person 
within the area of authority of the Colombo Port City upon making relevant payments in Sri lanka rupees.
13. The amounts of money received by an authorised person under regulation 12 may be converted into any 
designated foreign currency through a licensed commercial bank, or may be utilized in the normal course of business of 
such authorised person.
14. The retail facilities or services referred to in regulation 12 shall not include duty-free facilities or services within 
the area of authority of the Colombo Port City.
ParT Vi
Interim measures
15. (1) an authorised person may, subject to the provision of the act, engage in business from a designated location 
in Sri lanka outside the area of authority of the Colombo Port City, upto May 26, 2026.
(2) a business referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be entitled to all the privileges accorded to, and be deemed 
for all purposes to be, a business situated within and engaged in business, in and from the area of authority of the Colombo 
Port  City and be subject to the provisions of the act and any regulations made thereunder.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'07'07
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2023
4a
ParT Vii
Interpretation
16. in these regulations -
“act” means the Colombo Port City Economic Commission act, No. 11 of 2021 ;
“Commission” means the Colombo Port City Economic Commission established under the act ;
“duty-free retail facilities or services” means retail facilities or services provided by an authorised person in 
possession of a duty-free licence issued by the Commission  ;
“Marketable land” means Government Marketable land and Project Company Marketable land issued within 
the area of authority of the Colombo Port City  ;
“resident” shall have the meaning as in the act  ;
“resident foreign Currency account” means a foreign currency account held by an investor with a licensed 
commercial bank, except the foreign currency accounts opened and maintained in terms of directions           
No. 6 of 2022 and No. 7 of 2022 issued by the Central bank of Sri lanka under the foreign Exchange 
act, No. 12 of 2017 ; and
“retail facilities” means restaurants, cinemas, entertainment facilities, shopping facilities and parking facilities 
within the area of authority of the Colombo Port City ; 
EOG  07 - 0033
PRinTeD aT The DePaRTmenT OF gOVeRnmenT PRinTing,  sRi lanka.