

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 180 
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 176
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"161 – 2020 ckjdß ui 31 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'01'31
No. 2,161 –  fRiday ,  jaNuaRy 31, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th february, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th february, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
173 - B 82003- 5,403 (01/2020)
Note.–  Ports and airports development Levy (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of january 24, 2020.
N. B.–   Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,160 of 24.01.2020 was not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
174
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
175
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
176
Posts – vacant
SRI  LANkA  POLICE   
Post of Police Constable (Special Task force) 
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
direct recruitment for the Post of Recruit Police constable - 
Special task force in the Sri Lanka Police. 
2. application forms duly perfected in accordance with 
the specimen form given below should be sent to director/
Recruitment, Recruiting Office, No. 375, 1st Floor, Sri 
Sambuddathwa jayanthi Mawatha, colombo 06. the 
application should be sent by the registered post to the 
above address to reach on or before 31.03.2020 and the post 
applied for should be marked in the top left hand corner of 
the envelope enclosing the application. delayed applications 
will not be entertained and no applications will be issued by 
the Sri Lanka Police. 
3. Salary Scale.–  Rs. 354,480 - 7 x 3,600 - 27 x 4,440 -                           
Rs. 499,560.
as per the Public administration circular 3-2016, the 
above mentioned salary scale will be effect.
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted in accordance with the iG Police circular No. 
2416/2013, dated 07.01.2013. in addition to the above salary 
scale, they will be paid following allowances :  
    Rs. cts. 
 (a) cost of living allowance 7,800.00
 (b) interim allowance 2,500.00
 (c) 40% of the basic salary as  
  allowance 11,816.00
 (d) incentive allowance 1,500.00
 (e) 33% of the Monthly Salary 9,748.20
 (f) arduous duty allowance 2,000.00
 (g) combined allowance 9,800.00
 (h) Married allowance 300.00
 (i) uniform cleaning allowance 250.00
in addition to the above said allowances :
 (a)  free transport facilities.
 (b)  Free medical facilities to officers  (Financial 
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment 
even in a foreign country.).
 (c)  all uniforms will be provided free of charge.
 (d)  facilities to improve skill and talents in sports.
 (e)  travelling expenses are provided to undertake 
duties and money will be granted as rewards for 
outstanding and arduous duties. 
 (f) Officers will be entitled to the special allowance 
only during the period they are attached to the Stf 
consequent to the basic training. 
04. Basic Qualifications Required : 
 (a) Age Limit.– the age should be between 18 and 
25 years as at closing date of the applications 
as per the Gazette Notification. However Police 
Officers currently serving in the Sri Lanka 
Police as Police constable drivers are eligible 
to apply up to the age of 27 as at the closing date 
of applications. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications : 
  Should have passed 06 subjects including 
Mathematics and Medium Language in not 
more than two attempts at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. Applicants who are qualified 
within two attempts should have passed at least 
05 subjects (including both Mathematics and 
Medium Language or at least one, at the first 
attempt). 
Note 01.– the subjects passed at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination is determined as per the 
subject classification of Department 
of Examination i.e.- Science subject 
combination of subject number 41 and 44 
is considered as one subject and Maths 
subject combination of subject number 42 
and 45 as one subject. 
Note 02.– if the written test of technical subject at the 
G. c. E. (o/L) Examination is failed, it is 
considered as the technical subject is failed 
even though the practical test of the same 
subject is passed. 
Note 03.– Since optional tamil, English and Sinhala 
subjects are not included in the stream of                                                                                   

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
177
G. c. E. (o/L) syllabus, passes in any of 
these subjects will not be accounted as 
a passed subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. 
 (c) Physical Requirements : 
  * Height 05 feet 04 inches (minimum).
  * chest 30 inches minimum (in exhalation).
Note.– applicants who are slightly short of the 
physical requirements, but fulfill the other 
stipulated qualifications will be eligible 
at the discretion of inspector General of 
Police provided that they have outstanding 
skills in sports and have achieved excellent 
performance in sports at national level or 
have earned reputation for Sri Lanka by 
participating in an international competition. 
 (d) Visual Requirement.– Vision should not be less than 
6/12 in each eye. if the vision is 6/6 in one eye and 
6/18 in the other eye, will be also accepted. colour 
vision should be normal. applicants wearing 
spectacles or contact lenses will not be eligible for 
being selected for the service. 
 (e) Other Qualifications .– applicants should be 
unmarried (divorcees will be considered as 
unsuitable). only this condition will not apply 
for the Police Officers presently serving in the 
Sri Lanka Police and who have fulfilled the other 
qualifications. 
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will 
have to pass in the Basic Qualification Test conducted by 
the Sri Lanka Police. only those who have passed this test 
can participate in the physical fitness test, testing on self 
confidence and testing on starting energy and responding. 
* Physical Fitness Test :
exercise Times Time (minutes)
1. 1,000 meters 04
2. chip ups 05 01
3. Push ups 15 01
4. Situps 15 01
5. Scott thrush 12 01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
* Only those who are successful in the physical fitness 
test will be summoned for the final interview, and those who 
score 40% or more in the final interview will be summoned 
for the written test. 
the written test consists of two question papers. 
 an essay paper not less than 500 words - 45 minutes.
 General knowledge and intelligence test paper - 1 
hour.  
     
06. Medical examination.– applicant must pass the 
medical test before obtaining his appointment. Medical test 
is an only one part of the recruitment process. Selection will 
be made among the applicants who pass the medical test 
as per the number of existing vacancies and the position 
in the list pertaining to the merits and skill. those who fail 
the medical test will be rejected. Medical examination will 
be done at once. this exam will be conducted under the 
supervision of Chief Medical Officer. Police Hospital and 
he will submit the report according to the Health form 169.
07. Background Inquiries : 
 (a) applicant's close relations and friends will 
be inquired, on the conduct of the applicant. 
applicants with bad conduct will not be                 
recruited ;
 (b) Providing false information or conceal 
information will make the applicant ineligible. 
if the false information is elicited after the 
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed 
from the service. 
08. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* as per the Public administration circular No. 
07/2007 dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry 
of Public administration and Home affairs, all 
officers recruited to the Public/Provincial Public 
Service with effect from 01.07.2007 should acquire 
proficiency in the other official language within 
a period of 05 years in addition to the official 
language through which they enter the service. 
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant 
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should 
pass the level 2 of the language test conducted by 
the Department of Official Languages. 
* The salary increments of the officers who do not 
acquire the specific proficiency in the second 
official language within a period of 05 years from 
the date of their appointments will be deferred 
until they obtain qualifications.  

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
178
09. Terms of engagement.– this post is permanent and 
pensionable. you are liable to contribute to the Widows’/
Widowers' and orphans’ Pension Scheme. 
10. Conditions of Service : 
 (a) this appointment is subject to a three years recruit  
period ;
 (b) The recruited officers will be required to comply 
with any rules already made or may hereinafter be 
made to give effect to the official language policy;
 (c) they will be subjected to comply with the relevant 
provisions of the Establishment code V olume i and 
ii, financial Regulations, Police orders, and any 
other orders that may be issued by the inspector 
General of Police or by the Government from time 
to time;
 (d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be 
required to pass the prescribed Examinations 
conducted by the Sri Lanka Police. those who fail 
to pass the prescribed examinations or found to be 
unfit for Police duties will be liable to be removed 
from the Police Service ;
 (e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to the 
confirmation in the said rank without the permission 
of the inspector General of Police. However in 
terms of P. G. ii No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and                        
i. G.’s circular No. 1952/2006 of 19.10.2006 and 
circular (amended) dated 09.08.2007, it is possible 
to marry under special circumstances and with the 
permission of inspector General of Police ;
 (f) applicants appointed after the training should 
serve as recruit period of 03 years in the Sri Lanka 
Police and if they wish to resign from the service 
before their probation is over, they should sign a 
consent agreement to the effect that they are willing 
to pay any amount which was incurred on the 
training and uniforms etc., together with any other 
prescribed payments at the time of tendering their 
resignations. director of Poilce training college 
will decide it having calculated dues from the 
applicants. the acceptance of resignation should 
conform to the Section 4, chapter V of V olume i of 
the Establishments code, 1985 ;
 (g) Recruit Police constables should subscribe 
affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply 
with the Police code of conduct immediate 
after commencing their training in terms of the                             
i. G. P.’s circular, No. 1693/2003 ;
 (h) Recruit Police constables should subscribe the 
oath of allegiance for a prestigious public service, 
immediate after commencing their training in 
terms of the i.G.P.’s circular, No. 1804/2004 ;
 (i) Recruit Police Constables who have been confirmed 
in the post will have opportunities for promotions 
in terms of the approved schemes of promotions of 
the Sri Lanka Police.  
11. (a) attention is drawn to the general conditions 
applicable to appointments to posts in the Public 
Service published at the beginning of the Section 
(11a) of the Part i of this Gazette ;
 (b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public 
administration circular, No. 15/90 dated 
10.03.1990. 
12. applications should accompany copies of the 
following documents (originals documents must not be 
forwarded) :
 (i) Birth Certificate ;
 (ii) two recent testimonials of character (obtained 
from persons who are not related) ;
 (iii) Certificates in support of  educational qualifications ;
 (iv) Certificates in support of sports with outstanding 
records or other extra curricular activities ;
 (v) A photostat copy of the certificates of service 
experience (if available) ;
 (vi) a photostat copy of the identity card.
13. (a) applicants who are already in the Public Service 
must forward their applications through the 
Heads of their respective institutions and they 
must be accompanied with a certificate stating 
that the officer can be released if selected. 
 (b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in 
their own hand writing on a paper 11" x 8" in 
size and post them together with the copies of 
certificates, to the address given in paragraph two 
and under no circumstances should applications 
be handed over personally to any officer.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
179
14. applications which do not conform to the 
requirements stipulated in this notification will be rejected 
and such applicants will not be notified. 
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
to applicants who are summoned for the test and 
interviews by Sri Lanka Police.
 
C. D. WiCkramaratne, 
 Acting inspector General of Police. 
For office use
SRi  LaNka  PoLicE 
Post of reCruit PoliCe Constable (sPeCial task forCe) 
sPeCimen aPPliCation form
01.  (a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   (as stated in the applicant's National identity card)
  (b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 (copy of the Nic should de attached)
03. father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth belongs 
:––––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :––––––––––.
  (b) Police Station to which the present address belongs 
:––––––––––.
  (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (d) Police Station to which the permanent address 
belongs :––––––––––.
  (e) Mailing address :––––––––––.
  (f) Grama Niladari's division to which permanent 
address belongs :––––––––––.
   divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
  (g) t elephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
   Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  (b) Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen by birth or  
  registration :–––––––––.
   (If by registration attach a copy of that certificate)
  (c)  if you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth :–
  (i) applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) applicant's father :––––––––––.
  (iii) applicant's paternal grand father :––––––––.
  (iv) applicant's paternal great grand father :–––––––.
07. date of Birth :––––––––––. 
 (Copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
 age :––––––––––.
 (as at the closing date of applications as per the Gazette 
Notification) :  
 y ears :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
08. Height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
 chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (mention the examinations 
passed and the copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
11. civil status :––––––––––.
12.  (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (ii) are you a member of any armed force ? :––––––.
13. Do you have special skills and/or qualifications ? :––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two non-related referees to 
inquire about the applicant :
  (i) ––––––––––.
  (ii) ––––––––––.
15. Have you served in the Sri Lanka Police Service 
before ? (if so, mention rank and regiment No. .............) 
and what are the reasons for leaving the service ? give 
details 
16. (a) are you serving in any armed service ? (if so 
your application must be forwarded through the 
respective Service commander) :–––––––––.
 (b) Have you served in an armed service ? (if so attach 
a copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
180
17. (a) are you serving in a V olunteer armed Service ? 
(if so, your application must be forwarded through 
the respective Service commander) :––––––––.
\ (b) Have you served in a V olunteer armed service ? 
(If so attach a copy of your discharge certificate) 
:––––––––––.
18. Have you been arrested on suspicion of having 
committed an offence ? Have you been, convicted or 
brought before the court or punished (if so give details) 
:––––––––––.
19. Has any of your relation been arrested on suspicion of 
having committed an offence or convicted or brought 
before the court or punished (if so give details) :–––––.
i hereby declare that the above particulars are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. if the 
particulars furnished are found to be incorrect or false, i 
am aware that i am liable for immediate termination of my 
service in the Sri Lanka Police at any time even though i 
have been appointed to the post. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
20. Certification of the Head of Institutions (If applicable) :
this is to certify that the applicant  Mr./Miss ..................... 
is serving in ........................... the department corporation/
Board and if he is selected for the above post, he could be 
released from service. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the institution 
 with the designation seal. 
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
01–779
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of INTERNAL TRADE fOOD 
SECuRITy AND CONSumER WELfARE
Department of measurement units, Standards and 
Services 
ñkqï tAll" m%ñ;s yd fiajd fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wdY%s; 
ks,Odß fiajd .Kfha ñkqï úoHd mÍlaIK ks,Odß 
^fomd¾;fïka;=.;& ;k;=r i|yd jk n|jd .ekSfï 
újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2020
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR tHE 
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoStS of MEtRoLoGy 
EXPERiMENtaL officERS (dEPaRtMENtaL) 
of dEPaRtMENt of MEaSuREMENt uNitS, 
StaNdaRdS aNd SERVicES - 2020
aPPLicatioNS are called for the open competitive 
Examination for the Recruitment to the Post of Metrology 
Experimental Officers (Departmental) of Department of 
Meurement units, Standards and Services - 2020 to be held 
in May 2020. the applications prepared according to the 
specimen application mentioned at the end of this notice 
should be sent to "commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examinations Branch, 
Examination department of Sri Lanka, P. o. Box 1503, 
colombo" to be reached on or before 03rd March, 2020 
Posts of Metrology Experimental Officers (Departmental) 
should be mentioned on the top of the left hand corner of 
the envelope. 
01. Conditions for recruitment and Service Conditions : 
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contributions should be made for the W&oP. 
 ii. The officers who joined the service in a language 
not an official language should get the official 
language efficiency during the probation period 
and the official language efficiency of the 
relevant level according to the related Public 
administration circulars and related circulars.  
02. Salaries and Allowances .– Monthly salary scale 
relevant to the post. 
under the Public administration circular No. 3/2016 
MN 4-2016 - Rs. 31,490 -10x445 - 11 x660 - 10x730 - 
05x750 - Rs. 54,250.00 and it is entitled with effect from 
01.01.2020. in terms of provisions on the Sub schedule ii 
of this circular, salaries are paid with effect from the date 
on which the appointment is effective in terms of the Sub 
schedule ii of this circular. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
181
The 1st efficient bar before lapse of three years (03) from 
the recruitment to the Grade III, 2nd efficient bar before 
lapse of three years (03) from promotion to the Grade ii, 3rd 
efficient bar before lapse of five years (05) should be passed. 
03. Educational qualifications.– Having a Master degree 
where the subject of Physics has been studied for at least                
2 years in a recognized university. 
04. Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) age should be 21-35 years to the last date of 
receiving applications (accordingly only those 
who have born 03.03.1999 or before and on 
03.03.1985 and after that are qualified to apply 
for this).
 (iii) Should have an excellent character and a good 
health condition. 
05. Method of recruitment.–  the applicants who have 
been fulfilled the above qualifications will be recruited upon 
results of a written examination and a structured interview. 
the written examination will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations or an institution approved by 
the Public Services commission and 40% marks or more 
should be obtained per each subject to pass the examination. 
according to the total marks of the applicants who have 
passed all the subjects the number of applicants up to 
two fold of the number of the vacancies are called for 
the interview. the structured interview will be held by 
an institution approved by the director of Measurement 
units. Standards and Services, maximum marks of 25 
can be obtained. Recruitment will be made according to 
the total marks obtained at the written examination and 
structured interview and the result sheet will be sent to all 
the applicants to their private addresses or published in the 
website www.results.exams.gov .lk by the commissioner 
General of Examinations after their resutls are submited to 
the Measurement units, Standards and Services department. 
the decision of the commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding the conduct of examination and issue of results is 
the final. 
06. this examination will be held only in colombo. 
07. Written examination.– the examination will be held 
in Sinhala, tamil and English. the medium of langauge 
applied is not allowed to change later. all the question 
papers should be answered in the medium itself applied by 
the applicant. 
there are two question papers :
01. iQ - total marks 100. 1 hour
 this question paper including ability of rational 
thinking, general knoweldge, general iQ and 
ability to take decisions is consisted with 50 
questions - multiple and short answers. all the 
questions shoudl be answered. 
02. General knoweldge - total marks 100. 1 hour
 50 Multiple and short answers to check the 
general knoweldge on basic concepts on Physics, 
and knowledge in political, social, cultural and 
economic trends in Sri Lanka. all the questions 
should be answered. 
 Structured interview (Maximum marks - 25)
 Maximum marks of 25 are given for computer 
literacy, English language proficiency, talent 
achieved by facing the interview. 
08. Application and method of application. – from No. 
01 to 10 should be in the first page and from No. 11 to 
17 in the second page and the rest in the third page of the 
application and should be filled clearly in own handwriting. 
the applications not complying to the specimen application 
form and incomplete applications will be rejected without 
notice. So, before the application is forwarded confirm 
whether the application is complied with the specimen form 
and completed and the duly complied receipt of payment of 
examination fee has been pasted. keeping a photocopy of the 
application will be useful. further, when the application is 
prepared the name of the examination should be mentioned 
on the top of the application in English except Sinhala and 
except tamil in tamil langauge applications. the receipt of 
application will not be informed. 
09. Application of officers who are already in the 
Government service/Provincial Government Service/State 
corporations should be forwarded thorugh their heads of 
institutions. 
10. admission cards for the examination will be 
posted by the commissioner General of Examinations to 
all the applicants who have paid the due examination fee 
and submitted the applications on or before the due date 
on assumption that only those who have qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. As 
soon as the admission cards are issued for the applicants 
a newspaper advertisement will be published by the 
department of Examinations mentioning that. if the 
admission cards are not received even after two or three days, 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
182
it should be informed to the department of Examinations. 
if the admission cards are not received even after lapse of 
two or three days, it should be informed to the department 
of Examinations as mentioned in the notice. you are 
informed to contact the department of Examinations with 
the copy of the application, copy of the receipt of payment 
of examination fee, receipt of registration of application 
mentioning the name of the examination, full name of the 
applicant, Nic No. and address and if applicants outside 
colombo can contact with an application by fax for more 
effectiveness. issuing an application to any applicant will 
not be considered as a qualification to his/her for any post 
or sit for the examination. applicants should undergo rules 
and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for conducting examinations and issuing 
results. if someone breach such rules and regulations he/she 
should under go any punishment issued by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. 
10.1 Signature of the applicant in the application 
and admission card should have been attested. 
Signature of applicants who are already in the 
service of any institution should be attested by 
the head of the institution or an authorized officer 
and the signature of other applicants should be 
attested by a School Principal/retired officer, 
Grama Niladhari of the division, justice of Peace, 
commissioner of cofnirmation, attorney-at-Law, 
Notary Public, an authorized Officer in the armed 
forces, permanent officer in executive grade in 
Public or Provincial Public Service or chief 
incumbent of any Buddhist temple, a Nayaka 
thero or in-charge of clergy of other religion or 
very important person of any clergy. 
 Examination fee is Rs. 600.00 and the receipt 
received from any post office, sub post office 
in the name of the applicant for payment 
of the examination fee to be credited to the 
government revenue under the Revenue Head of 
commissioner General of Examinations 2003-
02-13 should be pasted in one corner on the due 
place of the application. it is kindly informed that 
except this any fee is not charged. Money orders 
or stamps are not accepted for the examination fee 
and the payment will not be refunded or transfer 
to another examination under any circumstances 
and keeping a photocopy will be useful in future. 
11. applicant (Male/female) should prove his/her 
identity for the satisfaction of the examiner for each and 
every subject he/she face. for that any of the following 
documents will be submitted :
 i. National identity card,
 ii. Valid Passport,
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan License.
and applicants should not cover the face and ears when 
entering the examination to confirm the identity those who 
refuse to prove of his/her identity such applicants will not 
be admitted to the examination hall further, applicants 
should not cover face and ears until finish the examination, 
after entering the examination hall in order to indentify the 
authority of the examination when any objection occur can 
give opportunity to sit for the examination. But the results 
will not be issued for such applicants as they could not be 
able to prove their identity. 
12. the authority of taking decisions regarding any 
matter not covered by this notice is with the director of 
Measurement units, Standards and Services and if any non-
conformity among the Sinhala, tamil and English notices 
the Sinhala version is enforced. 
 S. N. 
akurantilake, 
 director of Measurement units, Standards and 
 Services (d. a).
 Measurement units, Standards and 
 Services department.
Mahenawatta, 
Pitipana, 
Homagama, 
08th january, 2020.
sPeCimen aPPliCation form 
For office use
ñkqï tAll" m%ñ;s yd fiajd fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wdY%s; 
ks,Odß fiajd .Kfha ñkqï úoHd mÍlaIK ks,Odß 
^fomd¾;fïka;=.;& ;k;=r i|yd jk n|jd .ekSfï újD; 
;r. úNd.h - 2020
oPen ComPetitive examination for the reCruitment to the 
Posts of metrology exPerimental offiCers (DePartmental) 
of DePartment of measurement units, stanDarDs anD 
serviCes - 2020
Medium of Language :
 Sinhala - 2
 t amil - 3
 English - 4
 (Put the relevant No. in the cage)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
183
01. full Name in English block capitals :––––––––––.
02. full Name (Sinhala/t amil) :––––––––––.
03.  (a) Permanent address English block capitals :–––––.
   (admission card will be posted to this address)
  (b) Permanent address (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
04. Gender (Male - 0,  female - 1)
 Put the relevant No. in the cage
05. National identity card No. :
06. Mobile telephone No. : 
07. Whether married or single :
 (Married - 1, Single - 2)
 Put the relevant No. in the cage
08. Ethnicity :
 (Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3, 
 Muslim - 4, other - 5)
 Put the relevant No. in the cage
09.  (a) date of birth : 
   y ear :         Month :     date :
  (b) age to the last date of calling applications :
   (to 03.03.2020)
   y ears :  Months :  days :
10. Mention whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by 
descent or by registration (if by registration mention 
the details) :––––––––––.
11. Educational/Professional Qualifications :
  11.1 degree :––––––––––.
   university :––––––––––.
   Extenral/internal :––––––––––.
   date of validity of degree :––––––––––.
   Subjects :––––––––––.
   class :––––––––––.
   Medium of langauge of examination :–––––––––.
 11.2
Highest examination passed
Sinhala
tamil
English
 11.3 Other Educational/Professional qualifications :
examination/Course Date/Period Institution
12. Present employment and former designation, if any :
Institution Designation From Upto
13. Have you been dismissed from any employment in 
government service ? (if so, mention in detail) :––––––.
14. Have departmental disciplinary inquiry been held 
against you (if you are still in government service) ? 
:–––––––––––.
15. Have you been convicted by any court ?  :–––––––––.
16.  (i) Post office/sub post office where the examination  
  fee was paid :–––––––––.
  (ii) No. of the receipt :–––––––––.
  (iii) date :–––––––––.
  (iv) amount paid :–––––––––.
Please paste securely the receipt obtained for 
payment of examination fee (keeping a copy of the 
receipt with you will be useful)
17. Certification of the applicant :
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct and the receipt                         
No. ...................... and dated ....................... for payment of 
examination fee has been pasted on this. further, i agree to 
abide by the rules and regulations applicable to candidates 
regarding the conduct of examination and issue of results. 
i aslo agree with any decision taken by the commissioner 
General of Examinations regarding cancellation of my 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'01'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
184
candidature if any disquailfication was detected according to 
the examination rules and regulations when the examination 
is going on or after that. 
  –––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate. 
date :–––––––––.
18. Certification of the signature : 
i do hereby certify that i know the applicant Miss./
Mrs./Ms. ........................... personally and he/she put his/
her signature on ............................. in my presence and 
pasted the receipt by paying the relevant payment of the 
examination fee. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature. 
Name :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––.
date :–––––––––.
(Official stamp)
19. Certification of the Head of the Department if the 
applicant is serving in the government service : 
i do hereby certify that the details furnished by the 
applicant are accurate/should be amended as follows, has 
paid the due examination fee and pasted  the receipt, his/
her work and conduct are .................................... and he/she 
can/cannot be released from the present service. (cut off the 
irrelevant words)
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the 
  department/institution. 
designation :–––––––––.
(Official stamp)
date :–––––––––.
01–790
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.