

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of February 17, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 20. 02. 2017)
FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES
(AMENDMENT)
A
BILL
Ordered to be Published by the Minister of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources Development
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
to amend the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996

<!-- page 2 -->

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT
Clause 2: This clause amends section 28 of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No.
2 of 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) by the introduction of new
section 28
A and the legal effect of the new section is to prohibit, fishing operations utilizing
Trawl Nets towed by motorized or mechanized fishing boats and the sale, import and
transport of such nets and the issuance of license relating to utilization of such nets.
Clause 3:  This clause amends section 49 of the principal enactment by the addition of a
new subsection which makes it an offence to contravene the provisions of section 28
A.
Clause 4:  This clause amends section 66 of the principal enactment by the introduction
of a definition for the expression “Trawl Net”.
Clause 5:  This clause amends all the laws which are contrary to the content of the
provisions of section 28 A, making section 28 A to prevail over such laws.

<!-- page 3 -->

1Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 005011—475  (02/2017)
L.D.—O. 21/2016.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES
ACT, NO. 2 OF 1996
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources (Amendment) Act, No.    of 2017.
2. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 28 of the Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the
“principal enactment”) and shall have effect as section
28
A of that enactment:—
28A. (1) ( a) No person shall engage in or
cause any other person to be engaged in fishing
operations utilizing Trawl Nets, including nets
without two wings or using vertical poles at
the two free ends of the net, to be towed by
motorized or mechanized fishing boats.
(b) No person shall use, possess, import,
transport, purchase or sell any Trawl Net, to be
towed by a motorized or mechanized fishing
boat for the purpose of carrying out fishing
operations in Sri Lanka Waters.
(2) No license shall be issued by the
Director-General under Part II of this Act for
fishing operations carried out by Trawl Nets to
be towed by a motorized or mechanized fishing
boat in Sri Lanka Waters.
Short title.
Insertion of
new section
28A in the
principal
enactment.
“Prohibition
of fishing
operations
utilizing
Trawl Nets.

<!-- page 4 -->

Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment)2
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) Any license, issued under this Act for
fishing operations carried out utilizing Trawl
Nets  towed  by  motorized  or  mechanized
fishing boats in Sri Lanka Waters, shall not be
renewed:
Provided that, a license already issued for the
use of Trawl Nets and which is still in force on
the day preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in this Act, continue to be valid
for the purpose and in respect of which the
license has been issued, for the period specified
therein.”.
3. Section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after subsection (2A)
thereof, of the following new subsection:—
“(2AA) Any person who contravenes or fails to
comply with the provisions of section 28
A of this
Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,
be liable to an imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years or to a fine not less than fifty
thousand rupees.”.
4. Section 66 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion, immediately after the definition
of the expression “Sri Lanka Waters”, of the following new
definition:—
“ “Trawl Net” means a towing net having a cone
shaped body and a bag or cod end (madiya)
connected to the apex with or without two
wings connected to the other end and towed
by motorized or mechanized fishing boats.”.
Amendment
of section 66
of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment
of section 49
of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

3Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment)
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of any
inconsistency.
5. The provisions of section 28A of this Act, shall have
effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, and accordingly, in the event of any conflict or
inconsistency between the provisions of section 28
A of this
Act and such other law, the provisions of section 28A of this
Act shall prevail.
6. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Section 28 A
of this Act to
prevail over
other written
law.
5

<!-- page 6 -->

Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment)4
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .