

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 07
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 04
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"001 – 2017 ckjdß ui 06 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'01'06
No. 2,001 –  fRiday ,  jaNuaRy  06, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th january, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th  january, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1
N. B.– Part i(iia), iii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,000 of 30.12.2016 were not published.
Note .- (i) National Transport Commission (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the 
Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 2016. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General
 :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5
 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5
 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5
 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5
 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5
 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
3
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) 
 When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
4
Posts – vacant
SRI LANkA REGuLAR NAvAL fORCE
vACANCIES fOR DIvERS
VacaNciES exist  in the Sri Lanka Regular Naval force 
for divers.
2. interviews are held by the Sri Lanka Navy for enlist 
male candidates possessing the qualifications given below:-
a minimum of six passes including mother language at 
the G cE ( o/L) Examination in not more than two 
sittings.
Note.–No optional subjects are considered for G cE 
(o/L) Examination.
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the 
following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri 
Lanka Regular Naval force.
 (a) Nationality   :- Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) Age :- Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 24 years as at the date 
of recruitment.
 (c) Height  :- Not less than 158 cm
 (d) Weight :- Not less than 47 kg
 (e) Chest :- Not less than 76 cm
 (f) Color vision :- STD II
 (g) Visual  Acuity :- Left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles and lenses)
 (h) Civil Status :- Candidates must be unmarried. 
No recruit will be permitted to 
get married whilst under training 
and until qualified to able rate
4. 
due consideration will be given to outstanding  
achievements in the field of sports.
5. Application of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirements of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. on arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will 
be measured. 
candidates whose height, vision and weight 
are below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification 
and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
any candidate who may have a special skills or value to 
the service may at the discretion of the commander of the 
Sri Lanka Navy be considered even though he may not 
have the requisite height provided he possess the requisite 
academic and professional qualifications.
6. Conditions of service :-
 (a) t he candidates will be enlisted as recruits and 
must undergo a Basic training course.
 (b) Recruits should be ready to undergo training at 
a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the 
commander of the Navy with the consultation of 
the Ministry of Defence.
 (c) d uring the period of training as a recruit and 
thereafter, personnel will be subject to Naval 
Law.
 (d) Every recruit will be provided all items of 
uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
 (e) d uring the period of training,  recruits will be 
provided with accommodation and food in the 
general mess.
 (f) i n the event a recruit voluntarily terminates his 
candidature during training, he will be required to 
refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses 
incurred up to that time by the Republic of Sri 
Lanka.
 (g)  Married Sailors may be provided with a married 
quarter if available. Rent will be levied as 
applicable to Public servants.
 (h) a ll Sailors are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in Sri Lanka or any part of the world at 
any time.
 (i) a ll Sailors are governed  by Naval Law.
7. Official Language Requirements.– the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances :-
 (a) i nitial Salary - Rs.17,332.00
 (b) c ost of living - Rs.7,800.00

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
5
 (c) u niform cleaning - Rs.170.00
  allowance
 (d) Hard line allowance - Entitled after basic 
  (operational areas)   training
 (e) Hard line allowance - Entitled after basic 
  (Non-operational  training
  areas)
 (f) o ther allowances - Special allowance 
    Rs. 1,000   
Special additional 
allowance Rs. 2,400 
 
 (g) a djustment - Rs. 9,840.00
  a llowance 
  Total - Rs.38,542.00
  a pproximately
 (h) t hree sets of holiday railway warrants per year 
(for Sailor, spouse and children). 
 (i) a n additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for sailors living in 
the mess to travel from the navy base to their 
hometown once a month.
 (j) f ree issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (k) f ree medical facilities (including families, if 
applicable)
 (l) Rent allowances for married Sailors not in 
occupation of a Government married quarters 
from Rs. 1,600.00 to Rs. 4,250.00 per month.
9. Instructions to applicants :-
 (a) application should be handwritten with much 
detail to every paragraph  as per the following 
specimen application. 
candidates with 
completed applications should call upon to one 
of the following recruiting center (except on 
full 
Moon Poya days and public holidays) from 0800 
Hrs. onwards. 
for further information, please 
contact 0112215162 or visit www.navy.lk
  (1) Welisara  -  Mahasen Naval Base
  (2) Galle  -  dakshina Naval Base
  (3) Poonewa  - Pandukabhaya Naval Base
 (b) c andidates will be required to produce the originals 
of the following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so:-
  (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth;
  (2) Certificates in support of the qualifications 
required for the branch applied for;
  (3) School leaving certificate;
  (4) Grama Niladari certificate (Taken within six 
month to closing date);
  (5) Certificates of trade / technical training and / or 
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized 
institution;
  (6) Two recent certificates of character. One of these 
should be from the Principal of the last school 
attended and the other from a responsible person 
who has the known of the applicant for more 
than two years or from the present employer (if 
employed);   
  (7) Certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc.
 (c) a pplications of candidates who fail to produce 
above documents when requested to do will not be 
considered.
10. 
any Statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification, 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection.
11. Selection Interviews etc. :-
 (a) Candidates who fulfill the above requirement 
should pass the basic medical test conducted 
by the Sri Lanka Navy. 
only the candidates 
who pass the basic medical test should pass 
the diving medical test and the Recompression 
chamber test. those who qualify from the 
Physical Efficiency Test and other tests are 
qualified to appear for further interviews.
 (b) No travelling or other expenses will be paid to 
applicants who are summoned for the test and 
interview.
 (c) o n every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he is to produce his National 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
6
identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons. 
 (d) c andidates likely to be suitable for their 
final interviews will be required to present 
themselves before a Sri Lanka Navy Medical 
Board.
 (e) a nyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving a testimonial. any 
form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
 (f) c andidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
Note : This Gazette notification is published in 
Sinhala, tamil and English. in the event of any 
inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil and English 
texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
 Rc Wijegunaratne,WV ,RWP & Bar, 
 RSP,VSV ,uSP, ndc,psn.
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
Naval Headquarters,
PO. Box 593,
colombo 01.
aPPLicatioN foR diVERS iN SRi LaNKa NaVy
01. Nationality :––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
02.
 Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––.
03. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
04. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
05. Postal Address :––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
07.
 Age :
 Years :––––––––. Months :–––––––.Days:––––––––. 
(to date of interview):
08. Height :––––––––––, (cm) 
 Chest :–––––––––,(cm) Weight :––––––––––, (kg)
09. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :                           
––––––––––.
10.  district :––––––––––.
11. Electorate :––––––––––.
12. GS Division :––––––––––.
13.Telephone Number :––––––––––.
14. Civil Status :––––––––––.
15. Gender :––––––––––.
16. School Attended :––––––––––.
17. Particulars of School qualifications obtained:
  Name of Type of Year of Subject passed 
  School e xamination e xamination (including
     Grading)
    o rdinary
    Level:
    a dvanced
    Level:
    o ther
18.  Particulars of employment since leaving School (if 
applicable) :
  Name and address Nature of Period of Service
  of employer employment From         To
19. Particulars of Parents:-
 Full Name Place of Occupation Present 
   Birth  Address
father
Mother
20.  Any Special qualification for the post :––––––––––.
21.  details of current achievements in sports (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated in with dates/ 
years etc. and standards/ levels acheived) :–––––––––.
22. other achievements of note at School/ university or 
with outside organizations (Give details with dates/
years etc.) :––––––––––.
23.
 any pervious service in the armed force or V olunteer 
Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
7
24. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details and the 
outcome of such applications :––––––––––.
25. Have you being convicted or bound over a civil or military court, if so give details :––––––––––.
26. if employed earlier in a Government department or in the Public Sector/Board/ corporation (including the central 
Bank, National Bank, universities, joint Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination 
of employment :––––––––––.
27. Particulars of testimonials :
     Name  Designation Postal Address
28. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
i declare on my honor that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for the diving Branch in the Sri Lanka Navy, published in the Gazette of the Republic 
of Sri Lanka.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
Date :––––––––––.
01–144  
ExCISE  DEPARTmENT  Of  SRI  LANkA
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to 
the Posts of Transport Officer (Grade III) and 
Technical Officer (Grade III)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens for 
one (01) Post of Transport Officer and one (01) Post of 
Technical Officer of the Excise Department of Sri Lanka. 
applications prepared in 297mm x 210mm (a4) papers 
as per the specimen form indicated in this notification 
should be sent to " the commissioner General of Excise, 
department of Excise, No. 34,  W. a. d. Ramanayake 
Mawatha, Colombo 02" on or before 31.01.2017 by the 
registered post. "
application for the Post of transport 
Officer/Technical Officer" should be mentioned at the top 
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. 
applications should be completed and precise in all 
respects as indicated in the notification and applications 
which are not so completed and precise and which are 
not been received as at the specified date will be rejected 
without any notice. 
complaints regarding the loss of 
applications or correspondence in that connection in the 
post will not be entertained. the receipt of the applications 
will not be acknowledged. 
01. Particulars regarding the General Duties of the 
Post : 
 1.1 Transport Officer.– Maintaining Department 
vehicles in satisfactory level and other 
Supervisory functions assigned to the post. 
 1.2 Technical Officer.– designing of work 
in relation to constructions works of the 
department, preparation of estimates, 
checking whether the said function s are 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
8
conducted as per the prescribed standards 
through investigating  of works, while in the 
field designing of plans in that regard, keeping 
notes and the Supervisory functions assigned 
in relation to the post.
2. Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 -6x240 -11x320 
- 20x360 - Rs. 27,885 per month (MN-3-2006 - A as per 
P. A. C. 6/2006 IV). (The Efficiency Bar Examination is 
according to the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Technical 
Service). 
3. Age Limit.– 
applicants should be not less than 18 
years and not more than 30 years of age as at 31.01.2017. 
4. Educational and Other Qualifications : 
 4.1 Transport Officer (Grade III) :
 (a) the applicant should have passed three 
(03) Science subjects in one sitting at the 
G. c. E. ( advanced Level) Examination 
(Except common General Test) ; 
  and
  the applicant should have passed six 
subjects including credit passes for 
Sinhala/
tamil/English Language, Science, 
Mathematics and another subject at the                
G. 
c. E. (ordinary Level) Examination.
 (b) Professional Qualifications : 
 (i) the applicants should have followed 
a course for not less than 03 years on 
Motor Mechanical Science or automobile 
Engineering Science at the orugodawatte 
training centre of National apprentice 
and industrial training authority and 
should have obtained a certificate ;
  or
 (ii) the applicants should have followed 
a course for not less than 03 years 
on Motor Mechanical Science or 
automobile Engineering Science at 
German technical college and should 
have obtained a certificate ; 
  or
 (iii) the applicants should have followed 
a course for not less than 03 years on 
Motor Mechanical Science or Automobile 
Engineering Science at a recognized 
institution of the Government and should 
have successfully completed the course ;
  and
 (iv) the applicants should have obtained a 
valid certificate of Proficiency issued 
by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic 
on driving of all types of Motor Cars 
and Lorries and should have obtained a 
certificate from a recognized institution 
to the effect that the applicant had been in 
charge of a work shop of class '
a' where 
Motor Vehicles are repaired ; 
  and
 (v) the applicants should have obtained the 
abilities of organizing and controlling of 
labourers and maintenance of a vehicle 
park which comprised of group of 
vehicles and the ability of controlling 
labourers in a Transport Pool ;
  and
 (vi) the applicants should have the knowledge 
on repairing and maintaining Petrol and 
diesel Engines with internal combustion. 
 4.2 Technical Officer (Grade III) :
 (a) Educational Qualifications : 
  the applicants should have passed 
three (03) Science subjects with Pure 
Mathematics/Applied Mathematics/
Combined Mathematics and Physics in one 
sitting at the G. 
c. E. ( advanced Level) 
Examination (except common General 
Test) ;
  and
  the applicants should have passed six 
subjects including credit passes for 
Language or Literacy, Mathematics, 
Science and another subject at the G. 
c. E. 
(ordinary Level) Examination. 
 (b) Professional Qualifications : 
 (i) National diploma in technology 
awarded by the university or 
Moratuwa or Hardy Institution, 
Ampara ;
  or

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
9
 (ii) National diploma in Engineering 
Sciences awarded by the National 
apprentice and industrial training 
Authority ; 
  or
 (iii) National Higher diploma in 
Engineering awarded by the Ministry 
of Education and Higher Education ;
  or
 (iv) diploma in technology awarded by 
the Open University of Sri Lanka ;
  or
 (v) Successful completion of the Part 
i of the Engineering Examination 
conducted by the institute of 
Engineering, Sri Lanka ;
  or
 (vi) Having completed the National 
V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) 
Level - 6 in relation to the 
field of 
Employment ; 
  or
 (vii) Having obtained the other 
qualifications recognized by the 
tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission similar in all respects to 
Technical Qualifications mentioned 
above subsequent to inquiring and 
obtaining ideas from the Ministry of 
Higher Education and 
institutions 
which issue the Technical Certificates 
mentioned above. 
 (c) experience.– the experience gained in the 
relevant field is considered as an additional 
qualification.
 (d) Physical Qualification : 
 (i) t he applicants should be physically 
and mentally fit enough to serve in 
any part of the country and to perform 
the duties of the post. 
 (e) Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri 
Lanka,
 (ii) a pplicants should have a good moral 
character,
 (iii) a pplicants should have completed all 
the qualifications in all respects by 
31.01.2017. 
5. The Method of Recruitment .– Recruitment will be 
made on the results of a written competitive examination 
and a general interview. 
a number similar to the number 
that is anticipated to be recruited as per the merit order of 
the total marks obtained by the applicants, who have passed 
the written examination, will be called for the interview 
and eligible persons will be selected thereafter. 
Particulars regarding the Written 
examination : 
intelligence Question Paper - 1 1/2 (100 marks)
Subject oriented technical Examination - 03 hours 
(100 marks)
the applicants can sit this examination only ine one 
language medium as their consent. 
Syllabus : 
Transport Officer (Grade III) : 
intelligence Question Paper  - i t is expected to 
measure the ability of 
understanding and the 
intelligence through 
the examination of the 
conclusions and responses 
of the applicants regarding 
the questions submitted 
within the Scientific, 
numerical and figurative 
contexts. 
technical Question Paper - i t is expected to examine 
the knowledge about 
motor Mechanical 
Science and the rule 
on the road from this 
question paper. 
Technical Officer (Grade III) :
intelligence Question Paper -  i t is comprised of 
questions to examine 
the ability of logical 
thinking and the logical 
analytical status and 
the ability of making 
decisions.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
10
technical Question Paper - c onstruction of 
buildings, application 
of paints classification 
of timber, tempering 
of timber, preparation 
of designs for work as 
per the rough sketches 
provided, preparation 
of bills according to 
Bills of Quantities and 
the knowledge on the 
basic water supply and 
drainage.  
6. 
examination fees.– applicants should pay an amount 
of Rs. 500 as the examination fees. The paying slip 
obtained from any Branches of the bank to be creidted to 
the 
account No. 0007041628 of commissioner General 
of Excise of the taprobane Branch of the Bank of ceylon 
should be sent along with the application. the applicants 
are advised to keep a photocopy of the bank receipt with 
them. 
the amount paid will not be refunded. 
7. Probation Period.– Selected applicants will be 
subjected to a Probation Period of three years (03) if 
they get through the 
departmental Examinations that are 
prescribed for them, they will be confirmed in the post at 
the end of the probation period of three years. 
8. Conditions of the 
employment : 
 (a) t his post is permanent and pensionable. 
 (b) t hey shall be directed to serve in any part of the 
island. 
9. Conditions of Service : 
 (i) Applicants qualified to be appointed should be 
abide by the Official Language Law and rules and 
regulations that are imposed by the Government 
from time to time. 
 (ii) Sections 10-12 of the chapter ii of the 
Establishments code will be applicable. 
 (iii) i n addition to the general conditions mentioned 
in the Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission, Provisions and conditions 
stipulated in the Sri Lanka technical Service 
Minute are also applicable. 
 L. K. G. gunaWardene, 
 commissioner General of Excise, 
 Excise  department of Sri Lanka. 
20th december, 2016. 
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
application for the post of transport officer/
technical officer in the department of excise
01.  (i) Name in full (in mother language) :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Name in full (in English) :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
02.  (i) Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Divisional Secretary's Division :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Grama Niladhari's Division :–––––––––––.
  (iv) Postal Address :–––––––––––.
   (for sending the admissions)
  (v) Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
 Age as at 31.01.2017 : 
 Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :–––––––.
04. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka (Indicated whether by 
descent or by registration) :–––––––––––.
05.  Nationality :–––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
07. Civil status :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications : 
  (i) Passes in the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) : 
Year :–––––––––––.
 Subjects passed Grade 
(Certified copy of the above certificate should be attached)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
11
  (ii) Passes in the G. C. E. (Advanced Level) : 
Year :–––––––––––.
 Subjects passed Grade 
 (Certified copy of the above certificate should be 
attached)
  (iii) Professional Qualifications : 
 Name of the  Period of the No. of Years Institution
 Course Course of the Course 
  From – To
  
 (Certified copy of the above certificate should be 
attached)
  (iv) experience : Employments/Courses undergone 
after leaving school :
 Name of the Period Institution If employed
 employment From - To  reason for
 or the course    leaving
(Certified copy of the above service certificate 
should be attached)
09. Name of the Bank to which money is paid :–––––––––.
 Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here. 
10. i certify that particulars mentioned in this application 
by me are true and correct. i know that i will be 
disqualified if any particulars indicated here are 
detected false or incorrect before the selection and i 
will be subject to dismissal from the service without 
any compensation if detected after being appointed to 
the post. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
01–133
––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of RuRAL ECONOmICS 
AffAIRS
Competitive Examination to  fill the Posts of 
Veterinary Research Officers and Research 
Officers of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and 
health Service - 2016/2017
REGaRdiNG the Gazette notification No. 1990, dated 
21.10.2016 on the Competitive Examination to fill the 
Posts of Veterinary Research Officers and Research 
Officers of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health 
Service - 2016/2017. 
the regulations in the 2nd Paragraph 
of the Gazette notification will be amended as follows.
the closing date of forwarding applications will be 
extended to 16.01.2017.
 d. K.R. ekanayake,
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Rural Economic Affairs.
december, 2016.
01-38

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
12
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Gov-
ernment Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ... 137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ... 1,300  0
 two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of jurors and assessors)            ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section i             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.
    
                       

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'06
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.01.2017
13
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. 
it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2017
 JAN uARy 06.01.2017 f riday — 23.12.2016 f riday 12 noon
  13.01.2017 f riday –– 30.12.2016 f riday 12 noon
  20.01.2017 f riday –– 06.01.2017 f riday 12 noon
  27.01.2017 f riday –– 13.01.2017 f riday 12 noon
 fEbRuARy 03.02.2016 f riday — 20.01.2016 f riday 12 noon
  09.02.2016 t hursday –– 27.01.2016 f riday 12 noon
  17.02.2016 f riday –– 03.02.2016 f riday 12 noon
  23.02.2016 t hursday –– 09.02.2016 t hursday 12 noon
 mARC h 03.03.2016 f riday — 17.02.2016 f riday 12 noon
  10.03.2016 f riday –– 23.02.2016 t hursday 12 noon
  17.03.2016 f riday –– 03.03.2016 f riday 12 noon
  24.03.2016 f riday –– 10.03.2016 f riday 12 noon
  31.03.2016 f riday –– 17.03.2016 f riday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st january, 2017.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANkA.