

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2446$54 - 2025 cQ,s ui 26 jeks fikiqrdod - 2025.07'26
No. 2446/54  -  SATURDAY,  JULY 26, 2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A - G 44952 - 05 (07/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
My No. : HA/05/20/01/01/34
NOTIFICATION
Appointments  under  the  Notaries  Ordinance
IT is hereby notified that the Honourable Minister of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government, in 
terms of Section 03 of the Notaries Ordinance (Chapter 107), has made the following appointments with effect from June 
23, 2025.
1. Mr. Dharmasena Dasanayakage Rajeewa Priyamantha Wickramarathna of Ranawaththa, Narammala, practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.
2. Mrs. Hindara Mulle Thenne Mudithamali Senevirathna of No. 21/1, Kiulawaththa, Panawala Road, Atakalanpanna, 
practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Ratnapura.
3. Mrs. Ranathunga Arachchilage Akshila Nethmini Ranathunga of Piyasewana, Koswatta, Kalawana, practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Ratnapura.
4. Mr. Dewagiri Mudiyanselage Pubudu Maduranga Herath of Gabadawa Road, Mawathagama, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2025
2A
5. Miss. Luwis Hennedige Sayathri Savindi Fernando of Aluthwatta, Bamunugedara, Kurunegala, practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.
6. Miss. Mandadige Ranuli Piyathma Fernando of No. 7/4, Fernando Road, Hill Street, Dehiwala, practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
7. Mr. Niswardeen Fathima Nishra of No. 5/1, Bulana Weva, Dewahuwa, Galewela practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil 
language within the judicial zone of Matale.
8. Mrs. Whyshnavi Piratheepan of Vadaliyadaippu, Pandaterippu, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language 
within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
9. Mrs. Lenika Priyadarshani Dharmarathne of No. 206/10, Batalandahena Road, Gothatuwa New Town practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
10. Mr. Terrence Anthony Cecil Reynauld Dushyanth of No. 141, Murugan Kovil Road, Linganagar, Trincomalee, practicing 
as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Trincomalee.
11. Miss. Malluwa Wadu Thakshila Tharangani Sugathapala of No. 166/2/6, Rubberwatta Road, Miriswatta, Mahawila, 
Panadura, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
12. Mrs. Athukoralalage Yamuna Chandani Kumarasinghe of ‘Yamuna’, Bowatta, Bingiriya, practicing as a Notary Public 
in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.
13. Miss. Munamalpe Baragamage Chandrika Munamalpe of Denawaka Road, Ganegama, Pelmadulla, practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Ratnapura.
14. Miss. Harsha Shiromali Wijethunga of ‘Sachithra’, Walawwatta, Fort, Matara, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala 
language within the judicial zone of Matara.
15. Mrs. Ranepura Hewage Hashanthika Hansamali Amarasinghe of No. 21B/2/1, Perakum Mawatha, Maharagama, 
practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
16. Mr. Dissanayake Pathiranage Shaleen Suraj Dissanayake of No. 62, Katuwawala Road, Maharagama, practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
17. Mr. Wadugedara Mudiyanselage Sarith Adheesha Wadugedara of Bowatta, Bingiriya practicing as a Notary Public in 
Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.
18. Mr. Weerasekarage Vihanga Diyamantha Rodrigo of No. 382, Kelanisiri Mawatha, Singharamulla, Kelaniya, practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
19. Miss. Samarawickrama Amarasinghe Arachchige Kasun Janani Samarawickrama of No. 663/3/A, Galawila Road, 
Homagama practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
20. Miss. Jayasundara Mudiyanselage Punsala Pumudini Jayasundara of No. 21/10, Alothiyawa Lane, Mirihana, practicing 
as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
21. Mrs. Jayasekara Mudiyanselage Sachini Madhumali of Moodanawa, Uvaparanagama, practicing as a Notary Public 
in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Badulla.
22. Mrs. Thilini Jinendra Hettihewa of ‘Thilini’, Kudawella South. Nakulugamuwa, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala 
language within the judicial zone of Tangalle.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2025
3A
23. Mr. Abdul Lathief Mohamed Rimzath of No. 346D, Aliyar Road. Kalmunaikudy 12, practicing as a Notary Public in 
Tamil language within the judicial zone of Kalmunai.
24. Mr. Sarawanamuthu Thulasitharan of No. 98, Aruchunagar Road, Pandirippu-01, Kalmunai, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Kalmunai.
25. Miss. Hifas Sumaiya of No. 261 A, Kappalady Road, Addalachchenai 06, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language 
within the judicial zone of Kalmunai.
26. Mr. Kannapiran Nivekithan of No. 53, Kollawilankulam, Vavunikulam, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language 
within the judicial zone of Killinochchi.
27. Mr. Mohamed Iqbal Ushama of No. 33/3, Fathima Road, Periyamulla, Negombo practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil 
language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
28. Miss. Kahawe Widanelage Chammi Uthpala of ‘Chammi’, Atakohota, Nawadagala, Elpitiya, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Balapitiya.
29. Mrs. Galagedarage Saroja Kumudini of No. 514/01/A, Circle Road, Kuda Aruggoda, Alubomulla, Panadura practicing 
as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
30. Miss. Hewa Halpage Sachini Madhusha of Elhendeniya, Beragama South, Makandura, practicing as a Notary Public 
in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Matara.
31. Miss. Dedduwa Jayathungage Dasuni Sewwandi of No. 281/2, Temple Road, Julpallama, Ambalantota, practicing as 
a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Hambantota.
32. Miss. Ayuni Inoka Gunaratne of No. 8/2/1, Trillium Residencies, 153, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 08, practicing as 
a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
33. Miss. Dilshi Dedunu Wickramasinghe Gunasekara of No. G/13, Police Quarters, Maradana Road, Colombo 10, practicing 
as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
34. Mrs. Doloswala Appuhamilage Hemamala Iroshani Jayawardane of No. 345/6, Sri Saranankara Mawatha, Kalukandagoda, 
Igala, Elpitiya, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Balapitiya.
35. Miss. Chawindya Kouwandi Weerasinghe of No. 161/6/7, Methsiri Mawatha, Pittugala, Malabe, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
36. Miss. Diyalagoda Liyanaralalage Dilshi Erangika Fernando of No. 51/8, Horana Road, Panadura, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
37. Miss. Rajaguru Mudiyanselage Sithumi Nawanjana Rathnayake of No. 37/A/2, Oruthota, Gampaha practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
38. Miss. Mahanama Nimedha Nilupuli Jayawardena of No. 17/2A, Koswatta Road, Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte, practicing 
as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
39. Mr. Rathnayaka Mudiyansege Sunil Shantha Boihala of Boihalawatta, Pehinibeddara, Aranayaka practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kegalle.
40. Miss. Avani Bhagya Wannakuwatte of No. 525/2, Havlock Road, Colombo 06, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala 
language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2025
4A
41. Miss. Nagalingam Udaya Shanthy of No. 12-4/2, Collingwood Place, Colombo 06, practicing as a Notary Public in 
English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
42. Mr. Panchanathan Pirashanth of No. 27, Polpathi Road, Kokuvil, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language 
within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
43. Miss. Warnakulasuriya Imasha Sammani Fernando of No. 14/14, ‘Malpiyali’, Pallansena South, Kochchikade, practicing 
as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
44. Miss. Illangasinghe Mudiyanselage Yashodara Illangasinghe of No. 596/A, Thalangama South, Battaramulla, practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
45. Miss. Udabage Gedara Kumeshi Hasarangi Udabage of No. 60/B, Central Road, Thalpitiya North, Wadduwa, practicing 
as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
46. Miss. Tharanee Upulmalie Kumarasinghe of No. 288/31, Samagipura, Hokandara Road, Thalawathugoda, practicing 
as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
47. Mr. Thelge Supun Chathuranga Peiris of No. 40/7, Sendrick Place, Katukurunda, Moratuwa practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
48. Mr. Don Praveena Srilal Senadheera of No. 79/2, Dharmadutha Road, Pagoda, Nugegoda, practicing as a Notary Public 
in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
49. Mrs. Yamuna Lakmini Priyashanthi Loku Balasooriya of No. 156/A, Yatiyana, Minuwangoda practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
50. Mr. Ganthihe Mudiyanselage Wenura Manupriya Dharmasena of Lecturer Quarters, Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, 
Puliyankulama, Anuradhapuraya, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of 
Anuradhapura.
51. Miss. Paththinikuttige Rosary Judith Lakshani Nonis of No. 485 Bl, Kospalana, Polpitimukalana, Kandana, practicing 
as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
52. Mr. Ranpati Dewage Dilantha Sampath Jayaweera of No. 17, Delgedara, Anukkane, practicing as a Notary Public in 
Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.
53. Mr. Muhammadu Rafeek Muhammadu Tharik of No. 01, Hospital 3rd Road, Sammanthurai, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Kalmunai.
54. Miss. Ponnuththurai Nirupitha of No. 88/22, Mannar Road, Nelumkulam, Vavuniya, practicing as a Notary Public in 
Tamil language within the judicial zone of Vavuniya.
55. Miss. Eeriyan Daluwage Pavani Madara of No. 37/1, Kahatapitiya, Gonapola Junction, practicing as a Notary Public 
in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
56. Mrs. Muthukutti Arachchige Chamodi Malsha of Malsha, Kadawala, Mulgirigala, practicing as a Notary Public in 
Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Tangalle.
57. Mrs. Hitihamille Gedara Madhushi Udara Dissanayake of No. 303/1, Nadeeka Home, Pothuweva, Nagollagama 
practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2025
5A
58. Mrs. Walakadawatte Gedara Sanduni ishanka Gunarathne of No. 147, Mahawelithenna, Meegalewa, practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.
              By Order of the Honourable Minister,
 S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and
 Local Government.
Colombo,
July 18, 2025.
EOG 07 - 0312/1
My No. : HA/05/20/01/01/34
NOTIFICATION
Appointments  under  the  Notaries  Ordinance
IT is hereby notified that the Honourable Minister of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government, in 
terms of Section 03 of the Notaries Ordinance (Chapter 107), has made the following appointments with effect from June 
20, 2025.
1. Mr. Aluth Durayalage Samantha Pushpakumara of No. 216/D, Napawala, Avissawella, practicing as a Notary Public 
in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Avissawella.
2. Miss. Damsi Nilaksha Salpitikorala of No. 846/16, Bulugaha Junction, Kandy Road, Kelaniya, practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
3. Miss. Paththamestrige Ayona Sewwandi Rasanjalee Perera of No. 404, Ihalagama, Ihala Madampella, Via Meerigama, 
practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
4. Mr. Benjamin Yogachandran Poopalapillai of No. 11/23/A 1, Balagala Cross Road, Hendala, Wattala, practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
5. Mrs. Warnapura Patabandige Salani Sandarekha Gunarathna of No. E/127, Moragahalanda Watta, Knewsmire Road, 
Bulathkohupitiya, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kegalle.
6. Mrs. Sanduni Bhagya Senarathne of No. 45, Sagara Mawatha, Panadura, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala 
language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
7. Miss. Ranaweera Arachchige Dona Bhavani Madara of No. 25/A, Temple Road, Attidiya, Dehiwala practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
8. Miss. Rashmi Aloka Abeywardana of No. 519/3/4, Bandaranayaka Mawatha, Eldeniya, Kadawatha, practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
9. Mr. Koththi Lakmal Priyadarshana of No. 5A, Yashodara Mawatha, Kalubowila, Dehiwala practicing as a Notary Public 
in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2025
6A
10. Mr. Alexender Pinthuge Jagath Deshapriya of No. 473/4, Kospalana, Polpitimukalana, Kandana, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Negombo
.
11. Miss. Wedamuni Nilamelage Dishna Dilshara Premaratne of No. 606/18, ‘Dishna’, Gonawala, Kelaniya, practicing as 
a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
12. Mrs. Kahawalage Dilukshi Rumeshika Perera of No. 61/B, G.H. Perera Mawatha, Raththanapitiya, Boralesgamuwa, 
practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
13. Miss. Jegatheesan Vipooshitha of Ward No. 02, Nilaveli, Trincomalee, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language 
within the judicial zone of Trincomalee.
14. Mr. Thillayampathi Pirasanna of Amman Kovilady, Velvettithurai, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language 
within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
15. Mr. Sivarasa Nihasan of Karunalaya, Alvai, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone 
of Jaffna.
16. Miss. Thevasuthan Gayathri of Paralai Road, Chulipuram, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language 
within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
17. Mrs. Pathiraja Mudiyanselage Kalyani Yasaranjani Pathiraja of No. 204/A, Kurunegala Road, Medamulla, Minuwangoda 
practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
18. Mr. Balachandra Thinesh of Unit A, 5th Floor, No. 26, IBC Road, Colombo 06, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil 
language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
19. Mrs. Hiruni Nuwangi Jayasinghe of No. 19A, Watakeiyawala Road, Udahamulla, Nugegoda practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
20. Miss. Rajapaksha Gedara Roshanka Dilki Madhushanee Rajapaksha of No. 138/A, Maddumage Watta, Nugegoda, 
practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
21. Mrs. Kiralawella Palliya Guruge Rashini Dheerarathna of No. 272/19C, Sirisena Gunathilake Mawatha, Welegoda, 
Matara, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Matara.
22. Mrs. Muthutantrige Randima Kanchana Fernando of No. 57/20B, Golden Arc Residencies, Railway Avenue, Nugegoda, 
practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
23. Mr. Adimali Kankanamalage Chamith Madhuranga De Alwis of No. 41, Ganepola, Kotugoda, practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
24. Miss. Edirisingha Arachchige Dilhani Nisansala Edirisingha of No. 184, 7th Post, Ekamuthu Mawatha, Sewanagala, 
practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Embilipitiya.
25. Mr. Kalahe Gamage Sarath of ‘Sri Dhara’, Rankoth Vihara Mawatha, Kuleegoda, Ambalangoda, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Balapitiya.
26. Mr. Kumarawadu Ruchira Asanka of Nisala Uyana Road, Naiduwa, Mawadavila, Rathgama, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Galle.
27. Mr. Idipphilip Pathiranage Indika Janaka Kumara of Meewalawatta, Bataduwa-West, Galle practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Galle.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2025
7A
28. Mr. Madavita Patabandige Chinthaka Rasika Kumara of No. 01, Barsaldeniya, Weihena, Baddegama, practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Galle.
29. Mr. Rajapaksha Pathiranalage Rasika Shirantha of Mahagalkadawala, Galgamuwa practicing as a Notary Public in 
Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.
30. Miss. Hordi Godage Iresha Sandamali of No. 45, Godakanda, Uluvitike, Galle, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala 
language within the judicial zone of Galle.
31. Mrs. Mohamed Ribbai Irfad Fathima Numaiya of No. 109/3C, Hirimbura Cross Road, Galle, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Galle.
32. Mr. Mohomed Rishad Mohomed Rizvy of No. 166, Manaweriya, Kochchikade, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala 
language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
33. Mr. Kannangara Koralalage Don Waruna of No. 10, Parakum Mawatha, Attidiya, Dehiwala, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
34. Mrs. Jayasuriya Mudiyanselage Mangalika Jayasuriya of No. 32/2, Athuruwala, Dambadeniya, practicing as a Notary 
Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.
35. Mrs. Arumeithurai Amantha Ureshi of No. B/G/2, De Mel Flats, Grandpas Road, Colombo 14, practicing as a Notary 
Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
36. Mr. Rajendran Suren of Usan, Mirisuvil, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial 
zone of Jaffna.
37. Miss. Wijayendran Jenany of ‘Sivasthan’, No.05, Raja Veethy, Nallur, Jaffna practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil 
language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
38. Mrs. Jananthini Thiruveragan of No. 20, St. Annes Lane, Chundikuli, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil 
language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
39. Miss. Dandeniya Arachchigamage Jithmi Madushani Dandeniya of No. 4/33, Telecom Road, Rakwana practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Ratnapura.
40. Miss. Wathmee Manuduli Kahadugoda of No. 72/5. Buthgamuwa Road, Rajagiriya, practicing as a Notary Public in 
Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
41. Miss. Wanasingha Arachchige Dona Tharanga Lakshani of Near the Bridge, Kahatavila East, Lihiriyagama, practicing 
as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.
42. Mrs. Sumithira Janarthanan of No. 72, Rasavinthoddam Road, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language 
within the judicial zone of Jaffna.
43. Mrs. Dilki Uthpala Wadduwage of No. 34/1, Uthpala Stores, Mapalagama Road, Wanduramba, Galle, practicing as a 
Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Galle.
44. Miss. Jayasekara Mudiyanselage Nuwanmi Asalya Divyangi Bandara of No. 39/1, Thimbirigasyaya Road, Colombo 
05, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
45. Mr. Pathirage Malaka Pushpa Kumara Jayasena of No. 398/18, Pragathi Mawatha, Wedagewatta Road, Magammana, 
practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Homagama.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'07'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.07.2025
8A
46. Miss. Thisari Nimnadi Kumarasinghe of No. 08, Araliya Uyana, Kalamulla, Kalutara, practicing as a Notary Public in 
English language within the judicial zone of Kalutara.
47. Mr. Rajapaksha Mudiyanselage Wedikkara Gedara Sachith Manohara Dhananjaya Rajapaksha of No. 39/01, Sapumal 
Uyana, 11th Mile Post, Kengalla practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
48. Miss. Loku Ganhewage Sachithi Indunil Gunathilake of No. 49/6, Medawelikada Road, Rajagiriya, practicing as a 
Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
              By Order of the Honourable Minister,
 S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and
 Local Government. 
Colombo,
July 18, 2025.
EOG 07 - 0312/2
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.