

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
wxl 2"110 - 2019 fmnrjdß ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'02'08
No. 2,110 -  FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 08, 2019
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
    PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...    ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... 244
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
          PAGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 250
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
243
N.B.—    The list of Jurors in Kegalle District Jurisdiction Areas in Year 2019 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala, 
Tamil, English Language. 
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st March, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th February, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81494 - 5,403 (02/2019)

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
244
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations
A precept for the beneﬁ t of the farming community in the Southern Province, with the intention of uplifting 
the agricultural and allied products, do device and implement plans for the development of agriculture within 
the purview of the Southern Provincial Council, by establishing a Provincial Department of Agriculture, 
by forming voluntary committees comprising persons engaged in agriculture, by determining the powers 
and functions of such committees and by providing ways and means for related events. This precept is 
consistent with the Agricultural Ordinance (of Authority 441).
 1.  This precept will be known as the Agriculture Precept of the Southern Provincial Council and will 
come into effect from the day it is sanctioned by the Governor of Southern Province.
SECTION 1
S
OUTHERN PROVINCIAL AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT
 2.  For the bene ﬁ t of the farming community in the Southern Province and with the intention of uplifting 
the agricultural and allied products, a Southern Provincial Agriculture Department (Hereinafter 
referred to as the 'department') will be established in the Southern Province.
 3.  In order to exercise the powers bestowed upon this department established under this precept, a 
Director, under the name and title of Southern Provincial Agriculture Director (Hereinafter referred 
to as the 'director') will be appointed and he/she will be the Head of the Department established 
under this article 2. This Director should be a grade 1 ofﬁ cer of the Sri Lanka Agriculture service.
 4.  (1)  This department will have powers, to appoint an additional Provincial Agriculture Director, two 
Deputy Provincial Agriculture Directors, Deputy Provincial Directors for the districts, Assistant 
Directors in charge of regions and training institutions and Agriculture Instructors in charge of 
technical services, Program Assistants-Agriculture, Development assistants - Agriculture and, to 
SOUTHERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURE  STATUTE  OF  THE  SOUTHERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Agriculture of the Southern Provincial Council do hereby 
notify that the draft of the Agriculture Statute No. ..... of 2019 of the Southern Provincial Council published hereunder will 
be presented in the Southern Provincial Council of the expiry of two weeks from the date of its publication in this Gazette. 
Any person who wishes to make any representation or amendment regarding any of the provisions of the said statute, shall 
forward the same to me within the said period.
 U
DALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,
 Minister,
 Southern Provincial Ministry of Agriculture,
 Agrarian Development, Irrigation, Water Supply and   
 Drainage, Food Supply and Distribution,
 Trade and Cooperative Development.
09th Day of January 2019,
Ofﬁ ce of the Minister of Agriculture,
Galle.
The Agricultural Precept of the Southern Provincial Council
Concise name 
and the date 
effective
Establishment of 
the Department 
of Agriculture
Appointing the 
Head of the 
Department
Appointing the 
staff

<!-- page 3 -->

245 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
appoint any other staff that the Department may feel necessary, for the efﬁ cient management 
and administration of the affairs of the department.
  (2) In the event where of ﬁ cers of the Government service are required to be appointed to the 
department, to maintain the required standard of management and for better coordination of 
affairs, the department has powers to make such appointments with the concurrence of the 
secretary of the relevant line Ministry.
 5.  All the appointments, including that of the Director under article 4 of this precept, are relevant to 
the provisions of article 32 of the 1987 Provincial Council Act No. 42
 6.  The Department is allowed to establish institutions at the provincial, district, Pradeshiya and village 
levels to achieve its objectives, with the permission of the Secretary to the Ministry.
SECTION II
T
HE PURPOSE OF THE DEPARTMENT, ITS OBJECTIVES AND DUTIES
 7.  The purpose of the Department is to be the principal contributor to the Gross National Product of the 
country by rendering all arable land in the Southern Province to be cultivated with agricultural crops 
in propagating food production and in making a contribution to the sustainable food production.
 8.  The objectives of the department;
 (a)  The proper execution of the agricultural extension works and the training activities related 
thereto.
 (b)  The planning, executing, supervision and monitoring all agricultural development extension 
activity initiated under the advice of the Minister and to manage such development activity 
and programs by bringing those under media supervision.
 (c)  The conducting of soil conservation work connected to the agricultural lands of the area, the 
elimination of losses due to pest and other fungal infections of varied agricultural crops and 
to establish and activate units based on existing Agriculture extension ofﬁ ces, to control pests, 
fungal infections and to prevent the spread of fungal infections in the area
 (d)  The maintenance, improvement and development of existing training centres with the view 
of providing the required training and acclimatisation to the farmers engaged in agricultural 
pursuits in the area and the preparation of plans to improve their skills and apprenticeships, 
deploying modern technical knowledge.
 (e)  Establishing and supervision of  Village agricultural societies under the guidance and supervision 
of area agricultural instructors and registering such societies under the Ministry of Agriculture.
 (f)  Executing programs to encourage and develop voluntary youth participation in the agriculture 
activity and the registration of voluntary youth farmer societies associated with such work and 
managing such societies providing constitutional provisions necessary for their activation.
 (g) Ensure that the execution of varied agricultural programs initiated in the area are conducted 
subject to the approval of the secretary of the Ministry or a person delegated with due authority 
by the secretary and also ensure that those are subjected to the due techinical interventions by 
the Ministry.
Establishing Sub 
ofﬁ ces with the 
approval of the 
Secretary
The purpose of the 
Department
The Objectives of 
the Department

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
246
 (h)  Work towards obtaining monetary and material contributions from local and foreign sources in 
the accomplishment of department's responsibilities subject to the limits of existing documented 
legal frame work.
 (i)  Execute required programs to ensure that the department staff is provided with facilities to equip 
themselves with modern knowledge and to horn their skills abreast of the times.
 (j)  Install a task evaluation system to assess the quality of services provided by the of ﬁ cers of the 
department and their expeditious execution with the view of improving the qualitative standard 
of the services rendered to the public by the department.
 (k)  Collect data and information on persons and organizations engaged in agricultural activity in 
the area and to maintain an Agricultural information center for the beneﬁ t of agriculture.
 (l)  Engage in any other activity that will help patronize the above objectives.
9.  The powers, objectives and duties of the Director:
 (a)  To carry out the duties entrusted in line with the objectives of the Department.
 (b) To grant the required approval when cultivations and crops that are not endemic to the Southern 
province are being established in the province.
 (c)  To inspect, or to appoint a person with delegated authority to inspect, any agricultural farm, 
Government or Private, in the area after having issued suitable notice of such inspection.
 (d)  In the event where an entrepreneur of the area is producing organic fertilizer for commercial 
purposes, to register such entrepreneur having considered the quality of such fertilizer.
 (e)  To issue and publish directives and methodology and to make Gazette noti ﬁ cations from 
time to time, with regard to the issue of agricultural chemicals in a context where agricultural 
chemicals are issued by certain vendors without written requests from agricultural instructors.
 (f)  To decide on all agricultural development activity conducted in the area.
 (g)  To delegate authority to the Agricultural instructors to inspect and report on the cultivation of 
inappropriate crops in the area.
 (h)  To register voluntary Agricultural Development organizations and to cancel such registrations 
when so registered organizations act contrary to the declared objectives of the precept and are 
engaged in irregular activity.
SECTION III
V
OLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
10.
 (a)  The formation of voluntary organizations of farmers, by farmers engaged in agricultural activity 
is permitted, and such organizations could carry a name of their choosing. 
The directors 
powers/objectives 
& duties
Establishing 
V oluntary 
Agricultural 
Organizations

<!-- page 5 -->

247 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
 (b)  The Director should formulate a common and standard constitution to regulate the voluntary 
agricultural organizations.
 (c)  These voluntary agricultural organizations could be established at village, Pradeshiya, District 
and Provincial levels.
SECTION IV
PROVINCIAL ADVISORY COMMITTEES
11. 
 (1)  An Advisory Committee should be appointed to advise the Minister on, an agricultural matter 
or matters initiated by the Minister.
 (2) The Provincial advisory Committee should comprise of the following persons,
 (a)  Persons appointed by virtue of their of ﬁ ce,
  (1)  The Secretary to the Provincial Minister.
  (11)  The Director of Agriculture for the Southern Province.
 (b)  Four appointees appointed by the Minister who possess specialized knowledge in 
agriculture and who also possess a post graduate degree or an equivalent or higher 
academic qualiﬁ cation and one other person who is a member of a registered agricultural 
organization holding ofﬁ ce in a District Agricultural board of the area, also appointed by 
the minister.
 (3)  The Secretary to the Ministry should be the Chairman of the Committee.
 (4)  The Director of Agriculture should be the Secretary of the Committee.
 (5)  A remuneration for the members of the Advisory Committee could be arranged with the approval 
with the Minister and in concurrence with the Provincial Minister of Finance.
 (6)  Every member of the committee should continue to serve the committee for two full years, unless 
the service is ended due to death, resignation or removal from ofﬁ ce and the member is entitled 
for consideration to be re-appointed to ofﬁ ce unless the member is removed from the Committee.
 (7)  Members who are appointed to the advisory committee, by virtue of their of ﬁ ce should continue 
to be members as long as they hold such ofﬁ ce.
 (8)  In the event where a vacancy arises in the committee due to death, resignation or removal of 
an appointed member, the Minister may appoint an alternate member to replace that member. 
A member appointed under such circumstances may continue to be a member of the committee 
for the balance period that his predecessor left unserved.
 (9)  In a situation where a member of the committee absents him/her self for a temporary period of 
time due to sickness or being away from the country, the Minister may appoint another person 
to serve in the committee during that period of absence of the permanent member.
 (10)  The Minister may remove a member appointed after having forwarded reasons for such removal.
Establishing 
the Provincial 
Advisory 
Committee

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
248
 (11)  An appointed member may resign from the committee at any time, by informing the Minister of 
the fact that he is resigning from the committee by a written intimation sent through registered 
post.
  (12)  (1)   The advisory committee should meet at least once in every two months or that many time 
that it is required to meet, in order to accomplish the tasks, set by the precept.
  (2)  The quorum for any meeting of the committee shall be three members.
  (3)  It is the responsibility of the Committee secretary to ensure that the minutes of the committee 
meetings are received by the Minister and the members of the committee.
  (4)  The procedure of work with regard to committee meetings and workings during the meetings 
of the advisory committee, should be regularised by the committee itself, subject to the other 
provisions of this Precept.
SECTION V
G
ENERAL PROVISIONS
 13.  The monies for the expenses incurred by the Department and the institutions established under 
the department, in the performance of their duties and tasks under this precept, should be made 
available from the monies of the Provincial Council Fund.
 14.  If the Director, or a person authorized by the director in writing, requests certain items of 
information, for the furtherance of the objectives of this precept, at any time, from any person 
or institution, it shall be the responsibility of that institution or person to provide the requested 
information to the director of person authorized by the director.
 
 15. (1)  The Director should submit an annual administrative  report to the Minister every year, within 
four months of the lapse of that year, detailing the manner in which agricultural activities were 
carried out, the problems that arose during the course of such activity, the solutions offered 
and any other activity material to the pursuit of the subject of agriculture.
  (2)  The Adminstrative report submitted as per clause (1) above should be tabled at the Provincial 
Council by the Minister within a reasonable time.
 16.  The Minister may issue, special or general directives in writing to the department on the exercise 
powers by the department, and the department should execute those directives.
 17.  (1)  the Minister may, under this precept, institute directions with regard to the following matters 
or on any other matter relevant to the objectives of the precept
  ( a) In formulating conditions relevant to registration of Organic fertilizer manufacturers,
  ( b) In formulating conditions relevant to the registration of V oluntary Agricultural Development 
Organization and in specifying the specimen forms used in registration
  ( c)  On any other matter that falls within the purview of this precept.
 
The meetings.
Finances.
The power to 
obtain information 
relevant to 
Agriculture within 
the Province.
Annual 
Administrative 
Report.
Power to issue 
Directives.
Directions

<!-- page 7 -->

249 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
  (2)  All directions formulated and issued by the Minister should be published in the Gazette 
notiﬁ cation and shall be effective, either from the date of such publication or from the date 
mentioned as the effective date in the publication.
  (3)  All directions formulated under clause (1) above, should be forwarded to the Provincial Council 
for approval after their publication in the Gazette notiﬁ cation and in the event where any such 
direction fails to gain approval, that direction should be considered as rescinded from the date 
of such rejection without any adverse effect on actions initiated as per that direction prior to 
the date of such rejection.
  (4)  The date on which such directions are rescinded should be published in the 
Gazette notiﬁ cation.
18.   The following items/activity are an offense under this precept :
 (1)  The misappropriation of agricultural aid or equipment granted by the Government or the Provincial 
Council, for the purpose of agricultural development and the disposal of, or rendering of, those 
to be used by a third party without the knowledge of the Director ;
 (2)  Acting in contravention of the directives issued by the Director on agricultural pursuits,
 (3)  Acting in hindrance to any of ﬁ cer during the course of exercising power under this Precept by 
any ofﬁ cer or person,
 (4)  Disobeying the orders issued by the Director or Assistant Director in charge of the area, on an 
agricultural issue, in preventing the spread at national or provincial scale, of a calamitous situation 
caused to agriculture due to biological or chemical reasons,
 (5)  To act deliberately or otherwise in propagating seeds or pesticides foreign to the Southern Province 
in a manner inimical to the legitimate crops cultivated in the province,
 (6)  (1) To activate or accomplish agricultural projects or activity that does not meet with the Directors 
concurrence.
  (2) Those who are alleged to have committed one or more of the above offenses, having found 
guilty at a summary trial conducted by a Magistrate, should be penalized either by a ﬁ ne of not 
less than rupees ten thousand or a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months or by one of 
the methods mentioned, or should be subjected to both, a ﬁ ne and a term of imprisonment.
19. Unless an alternative interpretation is necessitated in the terms used in this
Precept, the term:
'Provincial Council' should mean the Southern Province or Provincial Council,
'Minister' should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Agriculture in the Southern Provincial 
Council,
'Secretary' should mean the secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture in the Southern Province,
'Agricultural land' should mean a land that could be used for cultivation of paddy, private land that 
could be put to agricultural use or lands that have been dispossessed under the Land Development 
Ordinance, the Government Land Ordinance or any other Act,
Offences & 
Penalties.
Deﬁ nitions.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
250
'Inappropriate crops' should mean crops not recommended to the area and crops that are not permtted 
by law,
Pests' should mean any form of life, that may prevent the growth of an agricultural crop or causes to 
adversely affect its good health and productivity of that crop.
'Province' should mean the Southern Province.
20.  In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions of this  
 Precept, the Sinhala version should be taken to prevail.
02-178
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
CALLING  APPLICATIONS  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF 
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF 
GRADE ΙΙΙ OF CLASS I OF WESTERN PROVINCIAL PUBLIC 
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICE - 2019
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualiﬁ ed individuals to ﬁ ll the vacant posts of Assistant Director of  Grade  of 
Class Ι of Western Provincial Information and Communication Technology Service.
02.   Salary Scale :
   Monthly salary scale  for this post will be the salary scale of Rs. 47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170-110,895/ - 
Salary Code is SL 01-2016. Salary will be paid according to the second schedule of Government Administrative 
Circular 03/2016.
03.   Service Conditions:
   This post is Permanent. Pensionable. You must adhere to the policy decisions taken by the Government regarding 
the pension scheme that you are entitled for. Also, you will be subjected to the approved recruitment procedure, 
service conditions, Code of Procedural Rules of the Western Provincial Council and Financial Regulations.
04.   Vacant Fields :
  01  vacancy exists on Grage  of Class 1 of Western Provincial Information and Communication  Te chnology  
Service. Western Provincial Public Service Commission has the ﬁ nal decision regarding recruiting for the vacancies 
of this post.
  4.1   Final date of applying is 08.03.2019. All the required qualifications for the posts should have been  
completed by 08.03.2019 or before.
05.   Qualiﬁ cations relevant for recruitment - A Qualiﬁ cation that belongs to one of the followings from 5.1 to 5.5 should 
have been completed.

<!-- page 9 -->

251 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
 5.1.  Shall have obtained a degree in Computer Science/ Information Technology / Computer Engineering Science 
from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or a Degree Awarding Institution recognized 
by the University Grants Commission.
 5.2 (a)    Shall have obtained a degree from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission  o r  a 
Degree Awarding Institution recognized by the University Grants Commission. (at least 1/3 of the syllabus 
of the Degree should be of Computer Science/Information Technology).
        a n d
  (b)  shall have obtained a post graduate diploma in Computer Science/ Information Technology from a University 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or a Degree Awarding Institution recognized by the 
University Grants Commission.
 5.3   (a) Shall have obtained level seven (07) NVQ proficiency recognized by the University Grants  
Commission on Computer Science.
        a n d
  (b) Having two years (02) of professional experience on the relevant ﬁ eld.
 5.4. (a) Being a class 2 Grade I Of ﬁ cer of  Information and Communication Technology Service of Western  
Provincial Public Service and having completed an active and a satisfactory service period within preceding 
5 years.
        a n d
  (b)  Having passed the ef ﬁ ciency bar test required for the above grade.
 5.5 (a)  Being a Class 2 Grade I Of ﬁ cer or Information and Communication Technology Service of Western 
Provincial Public Service and having completed as active and a satisfactory service period within  preceding 
5 years.
        a n d
  (b)  Having a completed a quali ﬁ cation relevant to one of 5.1,5.2 and 5.3 paragraphs.
  (c) Having passed the ef ﬁ ciency bar test required for the above grade.
06.   Physical Qualiﬁ cations :
   Every applicant must be physically and mentally ﬁ t to be deployed and to fulﬁ ll the duties of the post with in any 
part of Western Province.
07.   Age:
      Minimum limit - 21 years
          Maximum limit - 35 years
   Age limit is not applicable for the of ﬁ cers of Grade I and Grade II of ﬁ cers of class I of Information and  
Communication Technology Service of Western Provincial Public Service. 
08.    Other Qualiﬁ cations should be completed as follows:
  (a) Should be a Sri Lankan Citizen.
  (b) Should be of an excellent character.
  (c) Should be a permanent resident of Western Province for at least 03 years immediately
   preceding the closing date of applying.
  (d)  All the quali ﬁ cations mentioned in the relevant notiﬁ cation regarding recruitment for the 
   post should be completed by 08.03. 2019

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
252
09.    Details of the Examination :
Question Paper Total Marks Time Pass Marks
1.  General Intelligence 01 Hour 100 40
2.  Information and Communication 
     Technology Case Studies
02 Hours 100 40
3.  Aptitude 02 Hours 100 40
   These question papers are designed to test the eligibility and skill of candidate for the duties of the post. Though 
this examination is a competitive examination, but least 40 of marks allocated for each subject and at least 50% 
of the total marks of the examination should be obtained. Marks will be deducted for unclear had writings and 
spelling mistakes.  Appointments are made strictly according to the order of obtaining marks to ﬁ ll the number 
of vacancies allocated for the examination.
10.  Syllabus for the Examination :
Name of the Paper Syllabus
1.  General Intelligence it is expected to assess the level of intelligence of the candidate 
in analytical skills, logical comprehension, interpretative 
ability, ability in application to other situation and arriving at 
conclusions, in response to problems presented in relation to 
numerical,  lingual ang ﬁ gurative structure and inter-relations. 
All the questions should be answered. 
2.  Information and Communication 
Technology knowledge
The potential of information and communication management 
skills, the systems for analysis of the themes, planning and 
development of software systems will be tested. All the questions 
should be answered.
3.    Aptitude for Information and 
Communication Technology 
Management
This paper is designed to measure the applicant's capacity to 
handle ICT for new developments in software development, 
installation and maintenance related to ICT developments. All 
questions should be answered.
11.   Examination Fees :
   Every applicant must pay an examination fee to Western Provincial Council. The examination fee for this 
examination is Rs.600/-. That examination fee should be paid in cash to any of the Divisional Secretary's Ofﬁ ce 
with in the Western Province on or before the closing date of application as to be credited to the Western Provincial 
Revenue Heading 20-03-02-99 and the receipt obtained should be afﬁ rmed ﬁ rmly to required ﬁ eld of the application. 
Retaining a photocopy will be useful. The fee paid for this examination will not be refunded fully or in half under 
any circumstances. Further, stamps or money orders will not be accepted for examination fee.
12.   Method of Applying :
  (a)    Application should be in conformity with the attached specimen application given in should be self prepared 
and ﬁ lled using both sided of the A4 size paper. No. 01 to No. 04 paragraphs should be on the ﬁ rst page and the 
paragraphs from No. 05 onwards should be on other pages. Applications that are not in conformity with the specimen 

<!-- page 11 -->

253 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
application form and applications with incomplete information will be rejected with out prior notice. Candidates 
are supposed to bear the loss of sending incomplete applications. Retaining a photo copy of the application with 
you will be useful.
 (b)   When preparing applications, the name of the examination at the heading must be started in English on Sinhala 
applications and Tamil applications.
 (c)    Completed application form should be sent by Registered Post to "Secretary, Provincial Public Service Commission 
(W.P.), No 109 , Maha Veediya, Battaramulla" so as to reach on or before 08.03.2019. The top-left hand corner 
of the envelope containing the application should clearly bear the words Open Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Post of Assistant Director of Grade  of Class 1 of Western Provincial Information 
and Communication Technology - 2019. Any application received after this date will not be accepted.
 (d)  Recepts of the applications will not be acknowledged. As soon as the admissions are issued, it will be published 
by notice on the of ﬁ cial web site of Western Provincial Public Service Commision www.psc.wp.gov.lk. if the 
admission is not received after 07 days of such notice it should be informed to Western Provincial public Service 
Commission as stated in the notice. Should be inquired from Western Provincial Public Service Commission with 
the photo copies of application and receipt with the receipt of registering the letter stating the name, address NIC 
number and the name of the examination.
 (e)  Signature of the applicant should have been attested by an authorized of ﬁ cer. Applicant appearing from any 
institution should have got is signature attested by the Head of the Institution or an ofﬁ cer authorized by him and 
other applicants should have got their signature attested by the Principal of a Government school/Retired Ofﬁ cer, 
Grama Niladhari of the relevant division, Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary 
Public, Commissioned  Ofﬁ cer of three forces, an of ﬁ cer of Government Provincial Government or Permanent 
Staff Ofﬁ cer Grade drawing an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 498,960/- or above, chief incumbent of a Buddhist 
temple or a priest of any other denomination in charge of a religious place or member of the Clergy holding a 
high position.
13.  Entry to Examination :
  (a)  Western Provincial Public Service Commission will issue admission cards to all applicants whose accurate 
applications have been received. An applicant who sit the examination must face the examination at the required 
examination center and on the ﬁ rst day should produce the admission to the supervisor. An applicant that fail to 
produce his/her admission will not be permitted to sit for examination.
  (b)  Candidates are subjected to the rules and conditions regulated by the Western Provincial Public Service Commission 
regarding conducting the examination. They will be subjected to any punishment prescribed by the Western 
Provincial Public Service Commission in case of breach of such rules or conditions.
14.  Identity of Applicants:  
   A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to satisfaction of supervisor for each 
subject offered. For this purpose, any of the following documents can be produced to supervisor.
    ( ) National Identity Card issued by Department of Registration of Persons.
   ( ) A Valid Passport issued by Department of Immigration and Emigration.    
15.  Furnishing False information :
   If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/ her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or 
after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false with in his knowledge 
or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she will be liable to be dismissed from Public Service.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
254
 16.   Examination Method :
  (i) This examination is conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums.
  (ii) An applicant should answer every question paper at the examination in one language medium.
 17.  Publishing the list including the names of quali ﬁ ed applicants from this examination will be done by Western 
Provincial Public Service Commission by informing candidates in private, by post or through of ﬁ cial web site of 
Western Provincial Public Service Commission, www.psc.wp.gov.lk
 18. Western Provincial Public Service Commission has the ﬁ nal decision regarding the relevant facts that are disclosed/ 
undisclosed by this application calling notiﬁ cation.
 19.  W estern Provincial Public Service Commission will allow all applicants who have applied according to the 
qualiﬁ cations in the notice and prepared and paid the relevant examination fee under the pre assumption of fulﬁ lling 
all the qualiﬁ cations. Incomplete applications in every way will be rejected without any notice. Any complain will 
not be considered regarding being lost or late at the post. Issuing an admission will not be considered as qualifying 
for this post. If it is revealed at the time of interview that the applicant does not possess the required quali ﬁ cations, 
his/ her candidature will be revoked.
 20.  If there is any inconsistency in the translations of English and Tamil translations of this newspaper notiﬁ cation Sinhala 
medium notiﬁ cation shall prevail.
 21.  This noti ﬁ cation and specimen application is published also on ofﬁ cial web site of Western Provincial Public Service 
Commission, www.psc.gov.lk
 M. G. A. T
HILAKARATHNA,
 Secretary,
 Provincial Public Service Commission,
 Western Province,
29th January, 2019.
Specimen Application
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF GRADE III OF 
CLASS I OF WESTERN PROVINCIAL PUBLIC INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICE - 2019
Index Number :
      (For of ﬁ ce use only)
 Language medium (Write the relevant number in the box)
 Sinhala    -   2
 Tamil       -   3
 English  - 4
 
Town and town number applied to sit for examination : Colombo - 1
 1.0. 1.1 Name in full (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––.
   ( eg : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
  1.2 Last name with initials at the end (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––––.
   ( eg : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)

<!-- page 13 -->

255 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
  1.3 Name in Full (In Sinhala/ Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  1.4 National Identity Card Number :
 2.0 2.1 Permanent Address (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––––.
  2.2 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/ Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  2.3 Address to which admission should be sent :
   (i)    In Sinhala/ Tamil :––––––––––––.
   (ii)  In English Block Capitals :––––––––––––.
  2.4 Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
 3.0 3.1 Gender - (Write the relevant number in the box)
   Male    - 0
   Female - 1
  3.2 Permanent resident district of applicant - Colombo - 1
         Gampaha - 2
         Kaluthara - 3 (Write relevant number in the box)
  3.3 Divisional Secretary's Division :––––––––––––.
  3.4 Duration of permanent residency in Western Province :––––––––––––.
 4.0 4.1 Civil Status - Married - 2 Unmarried - 1
   (Write relevant number in the cage)
  4.2  Date of Birth : Year : Month : Date :
  4.3 Age as at closing date of applications Years : Months : Days :
 05.     Regarding the education quali ﬁ cations mentioned under No. 05 of application calling notiﬁ cation :
  i. Degree certi ﬁ cate -
  ii. Post degree diploma -
  iii. National V ocational Quali ﬁ cation (NVQ) proﬁ ciency -
  iv. Issued Institution -
  v. Effective date of the certi ﬁ cate -
 06. If you are an applicant applying under 05.3 (b) of the noti ﬁ cation,
  Do you have 02 years of professional experience in the relevant ﬁ eld ?...............................................
  Mention details, of you have such an experience ..............................................
 07. If the applicant is currently working as an of ﬁ cer of information and communication technology of Western Province, 
if applying under 5.4 and 5.5 of the notiﬁ cation, it is required to ﬁ ll following sections from 08 to 10.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
256
 08. Service Information :
  i. Appointment date to grade 1 of class 2 -
   Date of passing the ef ﬁ ciency bar of that grade -
  ii. Appointment date to grade II -
   Date of passing the ef ﬁ ciency bar of that grade -
  iii. Service duration as at the closing date of applications - Years : Months :  Days :
  iv. Date of absorption to Western Provincial Public Service :
 09.    As at 08.03.2019, within three preceding years,
  i. Have earned all the salary increments ?
  ii. Have you taken no - pay leaves/ no - pay foreign leaves ?
  iii. Have you completed an active and a satisfactory service period ?
  iv. Were there any disciplinary actions taken against you or supposed to be taken in future ?
    10.   Divisional Secretariat to which examination fees was paid :––––––––––––.
     Number and date of the receipt :––––––––––––.
   date -
Afﬁ x the receipt here ﬁ rmly 
     11.  Attestation of the candidate :––––––––––––.
  ( a) I hereby declare that the above mentioned herein is true and correct according to my knowledge. I agree to bear 
the lossess of not completing and/ or erroneously completing. All the sections here are duly completed.
  ( b) I am aware that if the declaration made by me is found to be false I am liable to disqualiﬁ cation before appointment 
and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
  ( c) Further, I will adhere to the rules and regulations of Western Provincial Public Service Council and I hereby 
agree to accept the decisions of cancelling my candidature if proved ineligible for the examination conditions.
  ( d) I will not change any of the information furnished here later.
Date :––––––––––––.
                             ––––––––––––––––––––
                                 Signature of the Candidate
This attestation is relevant only for the candidates who have applied under the paragraph 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 of this notiﬁ cation.
  12.  Attestation of the Applicant's Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss –––––––––––– who submits this application is known to me personally, he/ she 
placed his/ her signature in my presence on –––––––––––– and further he'/ she has paid the due examination fee and has 
afﬁ xed the receipt.
 ..................................................
 Signature and of ﬁ cial seal of ofﬁ cer attesting the signature.
Name of the Ofﬁ cer Attesting the Signature :––––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––––.
Address  :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

257 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –08.02.2019
Following attestations are relevant only for the candidates who have applied under the paragraphs 5.4 and 5.5 of this notiﬁ cation.
 13.   Attestation of the Head of Institution
   (Cut off the irrelevant words)
   I hereby attest that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss –––––––––––– is carrying on work as a Grade 1/ 11 of Class 2 Information 
Technology ofﬁ cer from ––––––––––––, has completed a satisfactory service period of 05 years, that has/ has 
not earned all the salary increments within preceding 05 years, that has/ has not obtained no pay leaves, that 
there were no disciplinary actions taken against him/ her and it is not supposed to take such actions against him/ 
her.
  2. I hereby recommend that the information mentioned on the application are accurate and that this of ﬁ cer has 
fulﬁ lled the qualiﬁ cations as per the relevant service minute.
  
   Date :––––––––––––.
    ––––––––––––––––––––
    Signature and the of ﬁ cial seal of the Head of Institution.
   14.   Attestation of head of the Department
   I hereby recommend this application as Mr./ Mrs./ Miss –––––––––––– has ful ﬁ lled the qualiﬁ cations as per the 
service minute of Information and Communication Technology Service of Western Provincial Public Service 
which was approved by the Honourable Governor of the Western Province.
   
   Date :––––––––––––.
    ––––––––––––––––––––
    Signature and the of ﬁ cial seal of the Head of Department.
   15.   Recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry (W. P.)
  
   I recommend the above application.
   Date :––––––––––––.
    ––––––––––––––––––––
    Signature and the of ﬁ cial seal of the Secretary of the Ministry (W.P.)
  16.    Recommendation of the Chief Secretary (W. P.)
   
   I recommend the above application.
   Date :––––––––––––.
    ––––––––––––––––––––
    Signature and the of ﬁ cial seal of the Chief Seretary (W.P.)
02-472
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.