

<!-- page 1 -->

993 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.09.2007
993
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 995
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st September, 2007, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 07th September, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,515 _ 2007 ÌæÀà”æ´Ú 14 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .09.14
No. 1,515 – FRIDAY ,  SEPTEMBER 14, 2007
N.B.— Part IV(A) and Part II of the Gazette No. 1,514 of  07.09.2007 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.09.2007
994
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

995 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.09.2007
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
SRI  LANKA  SURVEY  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post
of Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey
Department - 2007
THE Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the post of
apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey Department will be
held only in Colombo in December, 2007 by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. The date of examination will be notified
through newspapers in due course. The Public Service Commission
reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination.
Applications are invited for the above posts from both male and
female candidates who comply with the following qualifications.
02. Eligibility :–
(i) Every candidate must furnish proof that he/she
(a) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Is of excellent moral character.
(c) Is not less than 22 years and not more than 33 years of
age on the closing date of application.
(ii)Educational Qualifications.– All candidates should have the
following educational qualifications :
(a) Should have a Degree in Surveying Science or 1st or 2nd
Class Honours Degree in Physical Science (with
Mathematics as a subject) obtainted from a  recognized
university or institution recognized by the University
Grants Commission.
Note.– Any person who is waiting for degree results is not
permitted to sit for this examination. However a person who has
passed a degree of recognized University and awaiting for the
certificate can be permitted to sit for the examination provided he/
she submits an official letter from the Registrar of relevant University
stating to that effect.
03. Conditions of Services :-
Salary :
(i) The consolidated monthly salary assigned to this post is
as follows.
P. A. Circular No. 06/2006 - MN 5
Rs. 15,785 - 10x290-15 x 325 - 11 x 400 - Rs. 27,960.
(ii)This post is permanent and pensionable.
(iii)Confirmation in Service.– Surveying Science Graduates
appointed to the post of Apprentice Surveyors will be
appointed to Class II/II of Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service
and be conferred with permanent status of service after
completion of a net total of 4 years’ satisfactory service
in the Department, including the completion of training in
Departmental  matters.
Physical Science Graduates appointed to the post of
Apprentice Surveyors will be appointed to Class II/II of
Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service and be conferred with
permanent status of service after a net total of 6 years’
satisfactory service including the completion of Surveying
Degree and training.
(iv) The candidates selected for appointments should present
themselves to a medical examination by a Government
Medical Officer with a view to it being ascertained whether
they are physically fit to serve in any part of the Island.
(v) Attention of the applicants is drawn to the general
conditions applicable to appointments to the posts in the
Public Service published in Part I : Section (IIA) of this
Gazette.
04. Procedure of Examination.– The examination consists of 3
question papers and its details are given bellow :
01. Comprehension - 50 marks 2 hour paper.
02. Intelligence - 150 marks 01 hour 15 minute paper.
03. General Knowledge - 150 marks 03 hour paper.
Total 350 marks
Comprehension paper.– This paper will consist of question given
in the form of short passages. Candidates are expected to summarize
some of the passages into on sentence, knowledge of explanations
pertaining to some underlined words will be tested. There would be
multiple questions on some passages and candidates are expected to
select the best suited answer.
Some passages will carry comprehension questions based on
multiple choice methods. Questions are framed so as to test the
candidate’s power of understanding. In addition there will be a long
pasage for precis writing. This question paper is of two hour duration.
Intelligence.– This paper is framed with the objective of testing
the candidate’s power of rational thinking, Power of analysis and
decision making. This will be a multiple choice question paper. The
question paper is of one hour and 15 minute duration.
General Knoweldge.– There will be questions to test candidate’s
knowledge about the environments where he lives and his knowledge
on current Political, Social, Cultural, Economic and Environmental
matters of both national and international importance. This is a
choice of questions. The question paper is of 3 hour duration.
Note :–
(i) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
mediums. Candidates should sit for this examination only
in the medium (be Sinhala or Tamil or English) in which

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.09.2007
996
they appeared for the qualifying examination according
to the 02(ii) of this notification. However, a candidate
who has passed the qualifying examination in Tamil or
English or a candidate who has his/her education in Tamil
or English medium can sit for the examination in Sinhala
Medium if he/she prefers. The medium of language
applied for the examination cannot be changed later.
(ii)Marks will be deducted for bad hand writing and spelling
mistakes. Also those candidates having bad hand writing
may be deemed to be ineligible for sitting the examination.
(iii)Admission cards will be sent to the applicants by the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The issue of an
admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean
that he or she has the requisite qualifications to sit for the
examination.
(iv)Method of Evaluation.– In conformity with the conditions
laid down in the Head No. 05 of this notification, the
candidates will be called for an interview going by the
descending order of the aggregate marks obtained for each
paper at the open competitive examination and also
depending on the number of existing vacancies in each
group. No marks will be allotted in the interview and only
the marks secured at the examination will be taken into
consideration.
05. Method of Selection. – When the appointments to Apprentice
Surveyors are made, 90% of the vacancies shall be filled from amongst
the successful candidates at an open competitive examination. 10%
of out of which will be filled from amongst the successful candidates
who possess a honours degree in Physical Science (with Mathematics
as a subject) and the balance will be filled from amongst the successful
candidates who possess a Surveying Science Degree. However if
there is no sufficient number of candidates having a surveying science
degree to fill the number of vacancies set apart for them, in such
instances the resulting vacancies can be filled from amongst the
candidates who posses a honors Degree in Physical Science
(Mathematics as a subject) also if there is no sufficient number of
candidates having honours degree in physical Science (Mathematics
as a subject) in such instances the resulting vacancies can be filled
from amongst the candidates who possess a Surveying Science Degree.
06. Every Candidate must have complied with all the necessary
qualifications required for this post before the closing date of
application for the examination.
07. Procedure of Application :–
Specimen Application Form :–
(i) Specimen Application Form provided at the end of this
notification should be followed in applying for this post
and applicants should prepare their applications in the
medium in which they appear for the examination. Also,
applications should be filled by the applicants in their own
hand-writing. The name of the examination mentioned at
the top should be indicated in English in the Sinhala medium
applications in addition to Sinhala while in the Tamil medium
applications, the name of the examination should be
indicated in English in adition to Tamil, every section of the
application should be perfected strictly in accordance with
the instructions given therein. Applicants should indicate
“not applicable” in any section which is not applicable to
them. Applicants should strictly keep in mind that any
application with blank columns is liable to be rejected. All
applications which do not conform to the specimen
application form and incomplete applications will be
rejected without notice. It will be useful for the candidates
to retain a photo-copy of the application submitted.
Further, the applicant should make sure that the application
to be filled by him/her is in accordance with the specimen
application form mentioned in this notification. If not, the
application is liable to be rejected. (Applications should be
prepared according to the annexed form on a A4 Size paper
and the cages No. 01 to 05 should appear on the front page
and No. 06 to 09 appear on the second page.)
(ii)Completed applications shoule be sent by registered post
to reach The Commissioner General of Examinations,
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, Organization and
Foreign Examinations Branch, pelawatta, Battaramulla on
or before 05th October, 2007. Applications received after
the closing date will be rejected. The name of the
Examination should be written on the left hand corner of
the cover containing the application. It is desirable to keep
a photo-copy of the application.
(iii)The examination fee of Rs. 300 should be paid to any
District/Divisional Secretariat in credit of Revenue Head
No. 400-20-03-20-13 of Commissioner General of
Examinations and the cash receipt firmly affixed to the
relevant place of the application. It is desirable to retain a
copy of the cash receipt. The examination fees will not be
refunded under any circumstances.
(iv)Candidates presently employed under the Government
Departments/Boards/Corporations etc. should forward their
applications through the respective Heads of Departments.
As such applicants should hand over their applications to
their Heads of Departments well in time to be transmitted
to the Commissioner General of Examinations so as to
reach him on or before 05th October, 2007. Applications
should not be sent to the personal name of Surveyor General
or any other departmental officer. Applications sent through
the Heads of Departments will not also be received after
the closing date.
The candidates applying from government service must get
the signature and official frank of the Head of Department/
Institution placed in the application for attestation, without
which the application will be rejected.
(v)Attestation.– Candidate’s identity should be certified by in
the case of a candidate from the government service, the
Head of the respective Department or any other authorized
officer, or in the case of other candidates, a Justice of Peace,
Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney at law or Notary Public,

<!-- page 5 -->

997 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.09.2007
Head of Government School or School under the control of
a Director, a Commissioned Officer of Army, Navy or Air
Force, a permanent Government Staff Officer in receipt of
an annual salary of Rs. 19,755 or above, the Incumbent of
Buddhist Vihara or a Nayaka Buddhist Monk, the
Incumbent of a place of worship of any other religion or a
religious dignitory of standing of any other religion.
08. Admission to the Examination. – The Commissioner General
of Examinations will issue admission cards to each applicant whose
applications have been received. Applicants appearing for the
examination must get the admission cards attested in advance and
produce them to the supervisor of the examination center. A candidate
without such a admission card will not be permitted to sit for the
examination.
Every  candidate should sit for the Examination only at the
Examination Hall stipulated to him/her. No any candidate who enters
any other Examination Hall other than the one assigned to him/her
will be permitted to sit for the examination. A candidate appearing
the examination should handover his/her admission card to the
supervisor on the commencing day of examination itself. The general
conditions applicable to the candidates have been published in Part
I : Section (IIA) of this Gazette. Candidates are bound to act in
conformity with such conditions. If a candidate does not receive his/
her admission card at least 07 days prior to the examination, should
at once inform the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examinations
Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla along with the following information.
(i) Name of the Examination.
(ii)Full Name of the Candidate.
(iii)Full Postal Address.
(iv) Date on which the application was registered, Registration
Number and the Post Office.
(v) Number, Date, District/Divisional Secretariat mentioned in
the cash receipt.
The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit the
examination. All candidates are bound to abide by the rules enforced
by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the
conducting of examination. A candidate who violates any of such
rules is liable to punishment imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations.
09. Identification of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they appear. For this purpose, any of the
following documents will be accepted.
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport issued within a period of not more than 3
years on the date of this examination.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any
one of the above mentioned documents is liable to be cancelled at the
discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Documents pertaining to the Qualifications :–
(i) No any other document except the cash receipt should be
sent along with the application. But all the necessary
particulars as stipulated should be included in the
application. All the applications should be completed in all
respects but any incomplete application will be rejected.
(ii)Candidates who are qualified to be called for an interview
should prove their eligibility by producing documentary
evidence at the interview.
(iii)The originals of the following documents should be
produced.
(a) A certificate of good character obtained from a
responsible person.
Note.– This should be from a Justice of Peace, Attorney at law,
Divisional Secretary of the area in which the applicant
resides or a Permanent Government Officer in receipt
of an annual salary of Rs. 230,700 or above, or any
Notable from whom information can directly be
obtained. Also the Name of Attestor, Designation and
Address should be clearly mentioned in it.
Applicants holding permanent posts in the government
service need not furnish the certificate of good character.
(b) A certified copy of register of Birth or (in the case of
applicants whose births have not been registered) a
special certificate of age issued by the Registrar General.
Note :–
(i) Special Certificates of birth issued for the purpose of using
in schools or educational activities or certified extracts from
register of birth will not be accepted.
(ii)Affidavits or Boptismal certificates will not be accepted
instead of a birth certificate. If there is any discrepancy
between name/names on the birth certificate and name/names
in normal usage in which the applicant appears for the
examination, immediate action should be taken to get the
name/names on the applicant’s birth certificate rectified
appropriately in terms of the conditions stipulated in No.
27 or 28 (Chapter 110) of Births and Deaths Registration
Act.
(iii) A certificate of Sri Lankan citizenship by registration or a
letter of proof accepted by the government that the applicant
has been a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent. (as appropriate)
(iv) Originals of educational Qualifications or if the certificates
have not been issued, any other official document to that
effect namely.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.09.2007
998
(v) An official document issued by the registrar of a relevant
university to the effect that the applicant has passed his/
her final degree examination and the result sheet issued by
the Department of Examinations stating that the applicant
has passed the G. C. E. (O/L), National Certificate of General
Education Examination with a credit pass in English
Language.
(vi) Applicants are advised to have their necessary documents
ready when applying for this post. If a candidate fails to
submit necessary documents or delays in submitting such
documents whenever requested, he/she will be made
ineligible for appointment to this post.
11. Furnishing false information.– In terms of the conditions of
this examination, if a candidate is found to be unqualified to sit for
this examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled prior to
this examination, during the course of examination or subsequent to
the examination or at anytime thereafter. During the service of any
candidate, if he/she is found to have suppressed any important
information, or furnished any false information knowingly, or
confirmed to have not complied with necessary requirements to
have appeared for this examination, that alone will be sufficient
ground for his/her immediate dismissal from service.
The candidature of any applicant who has not duly fulfilled the
necessary requirements of this notification will be cancelled.
12. Any matter not covered by these conditions will be determined
at the discretion of the Public Service Commission.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Land and Land Development.
Ministry of Land and Land Development,
No. 80/5, “Govijana Mandiraya”,
Rajamalwatta Avenue,
Battaramulla,
29th August, 2007.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
S
RI LANKA  SURVEY  DEP ARTMENT
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINA TION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF
APPRENTICE  SURVEYORS  IN THE  SRI LANKA  SURVEY  DEPARTMENT  – 2007
(For office use only.)
Medium of Language in which you are appearing for the Exam
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
1.0 Name :–
1.1 Name with initials :—————.
(in English block capitals eg. : SILV A. A.B.)
1.2 Name in full :—————.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :—————.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Address :–
2.1 Permanent Address :—————.
(in English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent Address :—————.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Office Address :—————.
(in English block capitals, if applicable)
2.4 Postal Address :—————.
(in English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Nationality :—————.
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
3.2 Sex :–
Female - 1, Male - 0
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year Month Date
3.4 Age on 05.10.2007 :
Years Months Days
3.5 National Identity Card No. :
3.6 Date issued :—————.
04. (i) Date of Graduation :—————.
(ii)University/Institution :—————.
(iii)Number of Registration, Date :—————.
(iv) External/Internal :—————.
(v) Degree :—————.
(vi) Subjects :—————.
(vii)The Class obtained :—————.
(viii)Upper/Lower :—————.
(ix)Index No. :—————.
(x) Medium of Language in which you appeared for the exam
:—————.
05. Degree obtained :
Honors Degree in BSc. Physical Science (with Mathematics as a
subject) - 1
Degree in Surveying Science - 2
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
06. Affix the cash receipt firmly, Please keep a photocopy of the
receipt.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here

<!-- page 7 -->

999 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.09.2007
07. Certificate of the Candidate :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and that
the cash receipt No.  ……… dated …… for the payment of admission
fee to the ………… District./Divisional Secretariat has been affixed
hereto. Further I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination and if I am found to be ineligible according to the
conditions of this examination, I agree to any decision taken to cancel
my candidature prior to the examination, while holding the
examination or subsequent to it.
—————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—————.
08. Attestation of Candidate’s Signature :- (should be as per the
para No. 07)
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ……………… (Full name)
who is submitting this application is personally known to me and
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ……………
—————,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :—————.
Full Name of Attestor :—————.
Designation :—————.
Address :—————.
09. Certificate of the Head of the Department (only if applicable) :
I declare that the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………… is an
officer serving in this Department/Corporation/Board, that he/she
has paid the relevant examination fees and that the cash receipt has
been affixed to the application. I also agree to release him/her from
the post he/she holds in the event of being selected.
—————,
Signature of Head of Department.
Designation :—————.
Date :—————.
09–595
ADMISSION  OF  APPRENTICES  TO  THE  SRI  LANKA
–GERMAN  RAILWAY  TECHNICAL TRAINING
CENTRE – 2007
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan Citizens (male/female)
possessing the following minimum qualifications for admission of
Apprentices to the Sri Lanka-German Railway Technical Training
Centre, Ratmalana for 2007.
02. Minimum Qualifications :
(a) Age.– Should be between 16-25 years as at 31.05.2007.
(b) Educational Qualifications.– Passing 06 subjects at the
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
examination in not more than two sittings including
Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Science. (It is
required to possess educational qualifications completely
before 31.12.2006 and passing of 05 subjects in first
sitting).
03. Training Courses.– The apprentices selected for the training
will be given an opportunity to follow the following professions
subject to the period specified. The course will be conducted only in
the Sinhala Medium. 18 persons each for the following courses will
be selected :
(i) Diesel Engine Mechanic 2 1/2 years
(ii) Welder 03 years
(iii)Electrician (Power) 3 1/2 years
(iv) Machine Setter (General) 3 1/2 years
(v) Motor Mechanic 4 years
04. Applications.– Applicants should indicate their particulars
correctly in the application forms prepared in white blank sheet of
297 m. m. x210 (A.4) according to the specimen attached herewith.
Incomplete applications will be rejected.
05. Selection for the Course :
(i) Selection will be made by written and practical tests
and only the candidate with required minimum
qualifications and, who have paid examination fees
mentioned in para. 07 will be called for the written test.
(ii)The written test will be based on Mathematics, basic
technical knowledge and general knowledge. The
applicants who have scored the highest marks at the
written test will be called for the practical test.
(iii)The candidates who have scored the highest aggregate
marks at the written and practical tests will be selected
for the courses.
06. Medium of Examination : Medium of examination will be
Sinhala, Tamil and English.
07. Examination Fees.– Non-refundable fee of  Rs. 250 will be
charged for the examination. This amount can be paid by Money
Order written in favour of Genereal Manager of Railways indicating
paying-in-office as Maradana Post Office or to any Railway Station
or to the Railway Chief Accountant’s Office, Colombo 10, and the
receipt or the Money Order thus obtained should be attached to the
application. Applications received without Money Order or receipt
will be rejected. It should be noted that examination fee will not be
refunded either for not being able to appear for the exam or for any
othre reason.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .09.14
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.09.2007
1000
08. Examination Centres.– A written examination will be
conducted only in a Colombo Centre for those candidates who satisfy
all the requirements stipulated.
09. Signing of Agreement.– All applicants selected for training in
the Institution should sign an agreement with the National
Apprentices and Technical Training Institute that they follow the
training successfully during the period specified.
10. The apprentices will be paid a monthly allowance during the
period of training by the Apprentice and Technical Training
Authority.
11. The Department is not bound to give employment to the
apprentices after training.
12. The application forms prepared in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to the Director, Sri Lanka
German Railway Technical Training Centre, Kaldemulla Road,
Ratmalana by registered post. “S. L. G. RTTC/2007” should be
indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
13. Closing Date of Application.– Applications will be entertained
up to 15.10.2007. The applications received later will be rejected.
T. L
ALITHASIRI  GUNARUWAN ,
General Manager Railways.
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Sri Lanka Railways,
Colombo 10,
23rd August, 2007.
Specimen Application Form
ADMISSION OF APPRENTICES TO THE SRI LANKA –
GERMAN  RAILWAY TECHNICAL
TRAINING CENTRE – 2007
For Office use only.
1. Name in full (with Surname in Sinhala and English) :———.
2. Address (in Sinhala) :———.
        (in English) :———.
3. District :————.
4. Date of Birth :————.
5. Sex : Male/Female :————.
6. Educational Qualifications : (G. C. E.  O/L)
First sitting :
Year: ————. Index No : ————.
Subject Grade
1. ………………………… …………………
2. ………………………… ………………….
3. ………………………… …………………
4. ………………………… …………………
5. ………………………… …………………
6. ………………………… …………………
7. ………………………… …………………
8. ………………………… …………………
9. ………………………… …………………
10. ………………………… …………………
Second sitting :
Year: ————. Index No : ————.
Subject Grade
1. ………………………… …………………
2. ………………………… ………………….
3. ………………………… …………………
4. ………………………… …………………
5. ………………………… …………………
6. ………………………… …………………
7. ………………………… …………………
8. ………………………… …………………
9. ………………………… …………………
10. ………………………… …………………
7. Language Medium in which the applicant prefers to sit :——.
8.  Indicate two professions in order of preference by the applicant
according to the notification :
1.  ————.
2.  ————.
9. Money Order/Receipt No. .............obtained on payment of
Rs. 250 to the Post Office/Railway Station...................is
attached hereto.
10. I, certify that the particulars given above are true and correct. I
am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found
to be false, I am liable to disqualification before selection and
removed from training, if detected after selection.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
09-419
Subject Grade
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.