

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2345$45 - 2023 wf.daia;= ui 16 jeks nodod - 2023.08'16
No. 2345/45  -  wedNesday,   august  16, 2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- Pg 6448 - 106 (08/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
NATIONAL   POLICE   COmmISSION
RuLes made by the National Police Commission under and by virtue of the powers vested in it under article 155K of the 
Constitution of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
 E.W.M. LaLith EkanayakE,
 Chairman,
 National Police Commission.
At the office of the National Police Commission,      
Block 09,        
Bandaranayake Memorial International Conference Hall Premises,
Bauddhaloka Mawatha,       
Colombo 07.
On 16th day of august 2023. 
     
Rules made by the National Police Commission
 01. these Rules may be cited as “National Police Commission Rules (Appeal Procedure): 2023”.
 02. Any Police Officer who is aggrieved by an Order relating to a promotion, a transfer, a matter concerning disciplinary 
control or a dismissal made in the exercise of delegated authority by a committee or the Inspector general of Police 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2023
2a
or a Police Officer appointed under Article 155H and 155J of the Constitution in respect of himself/herself may 
appeal in writing to the National Police Commission against such Order under these Rules prescribed herein-below.
 03. A Police Officer may submit only one Appeal relating to such an Order to the National Police Commission. When 
submitting such an appeal, the facts mentioned in the appeal as well as the documents submitted in support of the 
facts mentioned in the Appeal should be supported/confirmed by an Affidavit of such Police Officer submitting the 
appeal. 
  Furthermore, in such Affidavit the following shall be mentioned: -
 (a)  whether any other appeal has been made previously concerning/relating to the same matter in issue;
 (b)  whether any litigation is pending concerning the same matter in issue or has been concluded in respect of the 
same;
 (c)  If so, the relevant reference/case numbers and other relevant details.
 04. (a)  every appeal shall be addressed to the secretary of the National Police Commission and sent either 
by Registered Post to the Commission or sent electronically to the Commission’s e-mail address 
(info@npc.gov.lk). In the alternative, such Appeal could be hand delivered to the Office of the National 
Police Commission, concerning which a receipt of acknowledgment shall be issued by the Commission.  
  (b)  the appellant shall indicate the following basic information pertaining to the appellant. 
 1. Identity Card Number
 2. Rank / Rank Number
 3. Present address
 4. t elephone Number
 5. Present or last place of work
 6. e-mail address (If any)
 
05. (a) every appeal shall be made/lodged within six (06) months from the date of receipt by the aggrieved Party of 
the impugned Order made by a Committee or the Inspector General of Police or a Police Officer, as the case 
may be. 
 (b) Provided that, if there is a delay beyond six months in filing/lodging such Appeal, the National Police 
Commission may, at its absolute discretion, consider such appeal only if there appear to be exceptional 
circumstances which prevented the Aggrieved Party from filing/lodging the Appeal within the six months 
period prescribed herein-above. In such instances, National Police Commission shall specifically state the 
fact that the appeal has been made/lodged outside the stipulated time period of six months and it has been 
considered only on the exceptional circumstances that are specifically referred to therein.  
 06. The Appeals which are not submitted in accordance with the Rules specified herein-above shall be rejected by the 
National Police Commission. 
 07. (a)   In hearing an appeal, the National Police Commission may –
 I. Call for reports, observations, files or any other relevant documents from the relevant Committee, 
Inspector General of Police or from a Police Officer, as the case may be; and
 II. May summon the appellant before the Commission.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'16
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.08.2023
3a
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
  (b) It shall be the duty of the relevant Committee, Inspector General of Police or the Police Officer as the case 
may be to comply with such requests for reports, observations, files and any other relevant documents, not 
later than one month from the date of such requests.
 08. the decision/determination of the Commission in respect of any appeal shall be conveyed in writing to the 
Aggrieved Officer and the Committee, Inspector General of Police or the Police Officer as the case may be 
within thirty days from the date of the decision of the Commission. when the Commission has made a decision/
determination in respect of an appeal, no further appeals and/or applications and/or Requests shall be entertained 
by the Commission in respect of the subject matter concerning which the Commission has already made a decision/
determination as aforesaid.  
 09. the “Commission” shall mean the “National Police Commission” established under the article 155 of the 
Constitution. 
 10. the “Rules of Appeal Procedure of the National Police Commission, 2016” published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1997/23 of thursday december 15, 2016 are hereby rescinded 
eOg  08 - 0174