

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs.  4.50                                                                                                                   Postage  : Rs.    3.50
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 18, 2000
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
———————————
BANK OF CEYLON (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No. 54 OF 2000
———————————
———————————
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
[Certified on 18th August, 2000]

<!-- page 2 -->

1Bank of Ceylon (Amendment)
Act, No. 54 of 2000
2—H 008030—5,550 (06/00)
[Certified on 18th August, 2000]
L.D.—O. 9/99.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  BANK  OF  CEYLON  ORDINANCE
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Bank of Ceylon
(Amendment) Act, No. 54  of 2000.
2. Section 7 of the Bank of Ceylon Ordinance (Chapter
397) (hereinafter referred to as “the principal enactment”) is
hereby amended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section,
and the substitution, of the following subsection therefor :—
“(1) The authorized capital of the bank shall be fifty
billion rupees divided into fifty million shares of one
thousand rupees each.”.
3. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the substitution, for the words “specified either
in section 17 or in section 19”, of the words
“specified in section 17 or in section 17
A  or in section
19” ; and
(2) by the substitution, for the words “in accordance with
section 17”, of the words “in accordance with section
17 or section 17
A ”.
4. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
17. Subject to the provisions of section 20,
the Board may by resolution to be recorded in
writing authorize any person specified in the
resolution to enter upon and take possession of
any immovable property mortgaged to the bank
“Authoriza-
tion of
manager to
take
possession of
immovable
property.
Replacement of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 16 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 7 of
Chapter 397.
Short title.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Bank of Ceylon (Amendment)
Act, No. 54 of 2000
as security for any loan, overdraft, advance or
other accommodation in  respect of which
default has been made and to manage and
maintain such property and to exercise the same
powers in  the control and management of such
property as might have been exercised by the
mortgagor, if he had not made default.”.
5. The following section is hereby inserted immediately
after section 17 and shall have effect as section 17A  of the
principal enactment :—
17A . Subject to the provisions of section 20,
the Board may by resolution to be recorded in
writing authorize any person specified in the
resolution to seize any movable property
mortgaged to the bank as security for any loan,
overdraft, advance or other accommodation in
respect of which default has been made.”.
6. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “section 26”, of
the words “section 26, and thereafter it shall not be competent
for the borrower or any person claiming through or under any
disposition whatsoever of the right, title or interest of the
borrower to and in the property made or registered subsequent
to the date of the mortgage to the bank, in any court to move
to invalidate the said resolution or the subsequent sale for
any cause whatsoever, and no court shall entertain any such
application ”.
7. Section 20 of the  principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the substitution in subsection (1) of that section
for the words and figures “the provisions of sections
17 and 19 shall apply”, of the words and figures “the
provisions of sections 17, 17A  and 19 shall apply” ;
“Authorization
of  person to
seize movable
property.
Amendment of
section 19 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 20 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of
section 17
A  in the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Bank of Ceylon (Amendment)
Act, No. 54 of 2000
(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution of the following subsection
therefor :—
“(2) (a) Where—
(i) the borrower is dead ;
(ii) bank has been notified, in writing
of his death within a period of
three months of his death ; and
(iii) probate of his will or letters of
administration to his estate have
not been issued,
the District Court of Colombo or the
District Court of the district in which that
property is situate or kept may, upon
application made in that behalf by the
bank and after service of notice of the
application on such persons,if any, as the
court may order, and if satisfied that the
grant of probate or the  issue of the letters
of administration is likely to be unduly
delayed, appoint a person to represent
the estate of the borrower for the
purposes of this section.
(b) Where the borrower is dead and the bank
has been notified in writing of his death
within a period of three months of his
death, the board shall not take action as
specified in section 17 or section 17
A  or
section 19 unless and until a
representative of his estate has been
appointed under this section.”.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Bank of Ceylon (Amendment)
Act, No. 54 of 2000
8. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
21. Notice of every resolution under section
19 authorizing the sale of any property shall be
published, in addition to the Gazette, in three
daily newspapers in Sinhala, Tamil and English
respectively and copies of such notice shall be
sent to the borrower by registered post to the
address furnished by him to the bank.”.
9. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that section and
the substitution of the following paragraph therefor :—
“(a) be sent to the borrower by registered post to the
address furnished by him to the bank ;”.
10. Section 27 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “property is situate
or kept”, of the following :—
“property is situate or kept :
Provided however that where the borrower has made
default in respect of any other loan, overdraft, advance or
accommodation granted to him by the bank, the board shall,
in lieu of paying of  such balance to the borrower or any person
legally entitled to accept the payments due to the  borrower
or depositing in court, as aforesaid, deposit such balance in
the District Court of the  district in which the property
mortgaged as  security for such other loan, overdraft, advance
or accommodation is kept or situate.”.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Replacement of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment. “Notice of
resolution of
Board to sell
mortgaged
property.
Amendment of
section 22 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 27 of the
principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Bank of Ceylon (Amendment)
Act, No. 54 of 2000
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.