

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs.  6.75 Postage  : Rs. 3.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
—————————
DHAMMA SCHOOL FUND
 ACT,   No.  52  OF  2000
—————————
[Certified on  18th August, 2000]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 18, 2000


<!-- page 2 -->

Dhamma School Fund Act, No. 52 of 2000 1
2—H 006587–5,550 (00/02)
[Certified on 18th August, 2000]
L.D.—O. 70/98.
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  A  FUND  TO  BE
CALLED  THE  “DHAMMA  SCHOOL  FUND ” TO  RAISE  FUNDS  TO
PRESERVE  AND  FOSTER  DHAMMA  SCHOOLS  IN SRI LANKA  ; AND
TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL
THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Dhamma School Fund
Act, No. 52 of 2000.
2. (1) There shall be established a Fund called the
“Dhamma School Fund” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Fund”).
(2) The Fund shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1) be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.
3. (1) The administration, management and control of
the affairs of the Fund shall be vested in a Board of
Management (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)
constituted as hereinafter provided.
(2) The Board shall for the purposes of administering,
managing and controlling the affairs of the Fund exercise,
discharge and perform, the powers functions and duties
conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, the Fund by this Act.
(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board shall
have the power to make rules regulating the procedure in
regard to its meetings and the transaction of business at such
meetings.
4. (1) The Board shall consist of the following :—
(a) the President of the Republic or a member of the
Cabinet of Ministers nominated by the President ;
Short title.
Establishment of
the Dhamma
School Fund.
Board of
Management of
the Fund.
Constitution of the
Board.

<!-- page 3 -->

Dhamma School Fund Act, No. 52 of 20002
(b) the Leader of the Opposition in Parliament or his
nominee ;
(c) the Minister in charge of the subject of Buddha
Sasana ;
(d) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Buddha Sasana ;
(e) the Public Trustee ;
(f) the Commissioner of Buddhist Affairs ; and
(g) two other members appointed by the President, from
among persons who have had experience in Buddhist
Affairs and Education.
(2) A member of the Board appointed under paragraph
(g) of subsection (1) shall, subject to the provisions of
subsections (3) and (4), hold office for the period specified in
the letter of appointment issued to him by the President.
(3) The President may for reasons assigned remove from
office, a member of the Board appointed under paragraph (g)
of subsection (1).
(4) A member of the Board appointed under paragraph
(g) of subsection (1) may resign from office by letter in that
behalf addressed to the President and the resignation shall be
effective from the date on which it is accepted by the President,
in writing.
(5) A person appointed in place of a member of the Board
appointed under paragraph (g) of subsection (1) who dies,
resigns or is removed from office, shall hold office for the
unexpired period of the term of office of the member whom
he succeeds.
(6) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalidated
by reason only of the existence of a vacancy in the Board or
any defect in the appointment of any member thereof.

<!-- page 4 -->

Dhamma School Fund Act, No. 52 of 2000 3
(7) The President or the person nominated by the
President under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) shall be the
Chairman of the Board.
5. (1) There shall be an Advisory Committee to the
Board consisting of —
(a) an Anunayaka Thero appointed by Mahanayaka
Thero of the Malwatu Chapter of the Siyam Nikaya ;
(b) an Anunayaka Thero nominated by the Mahanayaka
Thero of the Asgiri Chapter of the Siyam Nikaya ;
(c) a Vice President Thero nominated by the
Mahanayaka Thero holding the office for the time
being as President of the Sri Lanka Amarapura Maha
Sanga Sabhawa ;
(d) an Anunayaka Thero nominated by the Mahanayaka
Thero of the Sri Lanka Ramanna Nikaya ;
(e) five other members appointed by the President, from
among persons who have had experience in
Buiddhist Affairs.
(2) The Theras referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and
(d) of subsection (1) shall elect a Thero from among
themselves to be the President of the Advisory Committee.
The Thero so elected shall hold the office as President for a
period of three years from the date of his election, and shall
be eligible for re-election.
(3) A member of the Advisory Committee appointed
under paragraph (e) of subsection (1) shall, unless he vacates
his office earlier by death, resignation or removal from office,
hold office for a period of two years from the date of his
appointment.
(4) The President may for reasons assigned, remove from
office, a member of the Advisory Committee appointed under
paragraph (e) of subsection (1).
Advisory
Committee.

<!-- page 5 -->

Dhamma School Fund Act, No. 52 of 20004
(5) A member of the Advisory Committee appointed
under paragraph (e) of subsection (1) may resign from office
by letter in that behalf addressed to the President, and the
resignation shall be effective from the date on which it is
accepted by the President in writing.
(6) A person appointed in place of a member of the
Advisory Committee appointed under paragraph (e) of
subsection (1) who dies, resigns or is removed from office,
shall hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office
of the member whom he succeeds.
6. The Advisory Committee shall assist and advise the
Board when any matter relating to the exercise of the powers
and the performance and discharge of the duties and functions
of the Board is referred by the Board to the Committee for its
advice and assistance.
7. The object of the Fund shall be  to accept money from
local or foreign sources, and to use such money in such
manner, and for  such purposes, as the Board considers best
suited for the preservation and fostering of Dhamma Schools
in Sri Lanka.
8. The Fund shall have the power :—
(a) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease, any movable
or immovable property received by the Fund as gift,
donation, devise or otherwise ;
(b) to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable property
belonging to the Fund ;
(c) to give grants, donations or awards for carrying out
the object of the Fund ;
(d) to enter into and perform, either directly or through
officers or agents authorized in writing in that behalf
by the Board, all such contracts and agreements as
may be necessary for carrying out the object of the
Fund ;
Object of the
Fund.
Powers of the
Fund.
Advisory
Committee to
advise and assist
the Board.

<!-- page 6 -->

Dhamma School Fund Act, No. 52 of 2000 5
Investment of the
money of the
Fund.
Officers and
servants of the
Fund.
Dhamma School
Fund Account.
Payment from the
Account.
(e) to assist institutions which are engaged in the
preservation and fostering of Dhamma Schools ;
(f) to make rules relating to all matters connected with
the administration of the Fund ;
(g) to borrow or obtain money, with the property of the
Fund as security or without security ; and
(h) to do all such other acts and things as are incidental
or conducive to, carrying out the object of the Fund.
9. The Board shall maintain an account referred to as
“Dhamma School Fund Account” in the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka and there shall be credited to such account—
(a) all sums of money received from local or foreign
sources as grants or donations to the Fund ; and
(b) income derived from the investments made by the
Fund.
10. There shall be paid out of the Dhamma School Fund
Account—
(a) all sums of money required for the purpose of
carrying out the object of the Fund and approved by
the Board ;
(b) all sums of money required for the payment of
salaries and other wages to the officers and servants
of the Fund and for payment of renumeration to the
Auditor-General.
11. Any money belonging to the Fund may be invested
in such manner as may be determined by the Board.
12. The Fund shall have the power —
(a) to appoint such officers and servants as may be
required for the administration and management of
the affairs of the Fund ; and
(b) to determine the remuneration to be paid to such
officers and servants.

<!-- page 7 -->

Dhamma School Fund Act, No. 52 of 20006
13. (1) The Board shall, cause proper accounts to be
kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities, and
all other transactions of the Fund.
(2) The Auditor-General shall audit the accounts of the
Fund every year. For the purpose of assisting him in the audit
of such accounts, the Auditor-General may employ the
services of a qualified auditor who shall act under his direction
and control.
(3) For the purpose of meeting the expenses incurred by
him in the audit of the accounts of the Fund, the Auditor-
General shall be paid out of the income of the Fund, such
remuneration as the Board may determine. Any remuneration
received from the Fund by the Auditor-General shall, after
the deduction therefrom of any sums paid by him to any
qualified auditor or auditors employed by him for the purpose
of conducting such audit, be credited to the Consolidated
Fund.
(4) The Auditor-General shall, as soon as practicable after
the thirty-first day of December of each year, prepare a report
on the administration of the affairs of the Fund during that
year, together with a statement of the income and expenditure
of the Fund and of the investment of the moneys belonging to
the Fund during that year.
(5) In this section, the expression “qualified auditor”
means—
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute ; or
(b) a firm of Charted Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 8 -->

Dhamma School Fund Act, No. 52 of 2000 7
Auditor-General’s
statement and
report to be placed
before Parliament.
Officers and
servants of the
Fund deemed to
be Public servants.
14. The Auditor-General shall transmit the report
prepared by him in pursuance of section 13 to the Minister in
charge of the subject of Buddha Sasana who shall cause such
report and statement to be placed before Parliament.
15. All officers and servants of the Fund shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning and for the purposes
of the Penal Code.
16. The Fund shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
17. A donation made in money or otherwise by any
person to the Fund shall be deemed, for the purposes of
paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 31 of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, to be a donation made in money
or otherwise to a Fund established by the Government.
18. No action or prosecution shall be brought against
the Fund, a member of the Board or any officer or servant of
the Fund for any act which in good faith is done, or purported
to be done, by the Fund or such member, officer or servant,
under this Act or on the direction of the Board.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
20. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
established by the Monetary Law Act ;
“Dhamma School” means a school maintained exclusively
for the propagation of the Buddha Dhamma to
laymen.
The Fund deemed
to be a scheduled
institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.
Exemption from
certain taxes.
Protection of
action.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 9 -->

Dhamma School Fund Act, No. 52 of 20008
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.