

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
151
151
wxl 1"537 _ 2008 fmnrjdß 15 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'02'15
No. 1,537 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 15, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 154
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 157
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd February 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 08th February, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
152
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
153
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
154
Posts - Vacant
SRI  LANKA   AIR   FORCE
Officer Vacancies
1. V ACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for
commissioned officers in the following branches :
(a)  Electronics Engineering Branch ;
(b) Air Field Construction Branc ;
(c) Administrative Veterinary Branch.
2. Applications are invited from male candidates who possess
the professional qualifications given below :
(a) Electronics Engineering Branch .– Electronics and
Telecommunication Engineering Officers (Flight Lieutenant/
Flying Officer/Pilot Officer)
BSc Degree in Electronics/Telecommunication Engineering
or NDT in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
or equivalent qualifications.
(b) Air Field Construction Branch.– Civil Engineering Officers
(Flight Lieutenant/Flying Officer/Pilot Officer) :
BSc/NDT/HNDE/NDES or equivalent qualifications in Civil
Engineering.
(c) Administrative V eterinary Branch. – Veterinary Officers
(Flight Lieutenant/Flying Officer/Pilot Officer) :
BVS from the University of Peradeniya or equivalent and be
fully registered with the Sri Lanka V eterinary Council.
3. Other Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Height : 5’ 5’’ and above
(c) Chest : Minimum 32
’’
(d) Vision Colour
Standard : CP2
(e) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6 (With or
without spectacles)
(f) Age :–
1. Electronics Engineering Branch. – Not more than 35
years as at 15th April, 2008.
2. Air Field Construction Branch.– Not more than 35
years as at 15th April, 2008.
3. Administrative Veterinary Branch.– Not more than 35
years as at 15th April, 2008.
4. Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the
service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be
considered, even though he may not have the requisite age or height,
provided he possesses the requisite academic and professional
qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Selected candidates will be granted a Regular Commission in
the Sri Lanka Air Force in the Pilot Officer, Flying Officer or Flight
Lieutenant rank as applicable in keeping with their qualifications and
experience.
8. Official Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at such
places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at any time
during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities as being
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his
control, he will be liable to have his commission withdrawn and/or be
subject to other disciplinary action in accordance with the Sri Lanka
Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time to
time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer shall
hold his appointment during the President’s pleasure”. However an
officer has no right to resign his commission unilaterally, but under
provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, may be allowed by the
President to do so. The Provisions of any Bond/Agreement envisaging
a period of obligatory service in respect of training and subsequent
courses will not supersede the provisions of Section 11 of the Air
Force Act, stated above. Retirement from the Air Force will be
applicable under conditions specified in the Air Force Pensions and
Gratuities Code.
11. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
12. A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He is
provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman service
will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and batman
allowance are paid to the Mess.
13. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15(b)(15).
14. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
15.(a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :
Pilot Officer - Rs. 211,800 p. a.
Flying Officer - Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380 p. a.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
155
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Wing Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 = Rs. 551,700
p. a.
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060 - 18 x 12,600 = Rs. 667,860
p. a.
(b) Service Allowances :-
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 2,125 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 2,400 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
(5) Special allowance Rs. 3,000 per month for those serving
in the Jaffna Peninsula. (Rs. 100 will be paid for each
working day at only Jaffna Peninsula).
(6) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(7) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(8) Ration allowance Rs. 7,233.23 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(9)  Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(10) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
(11) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(12) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(13) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
(14) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(15) Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
16. Pensions/Gratuities. – Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :–
(a) Application should be submitted in appilcants own hand
writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages of
the application should be completed neatly with as much
details as possible. Applications shold be addressed to
“Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala,
Kotugoda” so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon
on 26th February, 2008 under registered cover. The
envelope enclosing the application should be marked
“Application for Commission in the ……………
Branch” Applications received after the closing date and
not in accordance with the requirements of this
notification and not in registered post mail will not be
entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies
of :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
(2) Certificate of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
(3) Certificates of character from at least two responsible
persons who are personally acquainted with the
applicant.
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc.
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
* Note.– Originals of these certificates should be produced
only if and when the applicant is called for the
interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after
the selection.
19. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview of those
selected candidates, by a selection board appointed by
the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he is to produce his National Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
156
(d) candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate
will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
W. D. R. M. J. G
OONETILEKE,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR AIR FORCE IN THE ……………… BRANCH
01. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
02. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––––––––.
03. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
04. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
05. Postal address :–––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
Age as at 15th April, 2008 :
(Years :–––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.)
07. Height :–––––––––––.
08. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
09. District :–––––––––––.
10. Electorate :–––––––––––.
11. GS Division :–––––––––––.
12. Telephone number :–––––––––––.
13. Civil status :–––––––––––.
14. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Type of Year of Subjects passed
School/ examination examination (including
University grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Others
15. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University : (if
applicable)
Name and address Nature of Period of service
of employer employment From            To
16. Particulars of parents :–
Full Place of birth Occupation Present
Name address
Father
Mother
17. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
18. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
19. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside
organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :–––––––––.
20. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
21. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of
the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :–––––––––––.
22. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
23. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public
Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank, National
Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the
Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :–––.
24. Particulars of testimonials :–
Name Designation Postal Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :–
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are selected
for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of
the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
02–404

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
157
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
SHAREEA  EXAMINATION  FOR  ISLAMIC
DHARMACHARYA - 2008
Regulations and Instructions
THE above examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations annually on an island wide basis.
Examination for the year 2008 will be conducted in July. In future
the period of conducting this examination will be announced by the
Commissioner General of Examinations through annual gazette
notifications.
2. Examination centres will be set up in towns given in annex - 1
considering the number of candidates. Candidates will be attached
to the nearest examination centre if there are not enough candidates
to set up an examination centre, in a town.
3. Language medium.- This examination will be conducted in all
three languages namely Sinhala, Tamil and English. Candidates will
not be allowed to sit for the examination in more than one language.
4. Qualifications .- Candidates must possess any one of the
following qualifications.
4.1 Pass in Ahadiya School Final Certificate Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
4.2 Maulavi certificate awarded by an Arabic college registered
under the Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural
Affairs or pass in Al Alim certificate preliminary
examination conducted by the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
4.3 Three passes in G. C. E. A/L Examination conducted by
the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, with Islam or
Islamic civilization as a subject.
4.4 At least two years of teaching experience in an Ahadiya
School or an Arabic College AND pass in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination including a Credit for the subject Islam.
Note1 .- Qualifications of candidates indicated in section
4 must be certified by the Principal of the relevant
Ahadiya School or Principal of the relevant Arabic
college.
Note 2.- Applications must be sent through a Principal of
a registered Ahadiya school or a registered Arabic
college. Private applications will not be entertained.
5. Application forms and the instructions will be sent by post
to the registered Ahadiya schools and Arabic Colleges. Institutions
which did not receive the applications and instructions should
contact the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,
Sri Lanka, Pelawatte, Battaramulla.
5.1 Application forms must be prepared in duplicate and the
original must be sent to the Department of Examinations.
The copy should be filed in the institution.
5.2 Application forms must be filled clearly and correctly.
Incomplete applications and those received after the
closing of application will be rejected.
5.3 Closing date of application for the year 2008 will be
March 31st.
5.4 Completed application forms must be sent by registered
post ot the follwing address.
Commissioner General of Examinations Organization,
Foreign Examinations Branch,
National Evaluation and Testing Service,
Department of Examinations, Sri lanka,
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla.
6. Those who sit for the examination of the first time will be
allowed to sit free of charge. Other applicants must pay an
examination fee of Rs. 140. Referred Candidates who apply for
only one subject must pay Rs. 35 as examination fee.
6.1 Payment of examination fee.- relevant amount should be
paid at a post office and the receipt obtained should be
pasted on the application form. (It is advised to keep a
photocopy of the receipt with the Head of the institution
that forwards the application)
6.2 Examination fee will be revised as and when necessary.
7. Admission cards will be sent to the Principal of Ahadiya
schools or the Arabic colleges.
7.1 Applicants must hand over the admission cards to the
supervisor on the first instance of sitting the Examination
of examination. Failure to do so will result in the
cancellation of candidature.
7.2 Applicants’ signature on the admission card should be
attested by the Principal of Ahadiya School or the
Principal of the Arabic College.
8. Proof of Personal Identification.- Applicants should forward
any one of the following to prove their identity at the examination
centre.
(a) National Identity Card
(b) A valid passport
9. Release of results and determination of passes.–  Candidates
who obtain passes in all five subjects will be considered to have
passes the examination. They will be awarded the Shareea certificate
for Islamic Dharmacharya.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
158
Those who obtain passes in four subjects and not less than 25
marks in the fifth subject will be considered as referred; and if they
sit for the referred subject at the next examination diet and obtain a
pass, they will be entitled for the award of certificate. The referred
candidate should indicate the details of their results of the previous
examination. i. e. the year, index number, subjects and the results
obtained in their application form.
10. Examination.– This examination consists of five question
papers. Duration of each paper will be 3 hours. The question papers
are as follows:
1. Aqeeda and Masadirush-Shareea (Islamic principles and
legal sources)
2. Al Fiqhul Islami (Islamic law)
3. Asseera waththaareekul Islami (Seera and Islamic history)
4. Society and Ethics (Al Akhlaq was Sulook)
5. Islamic Literature and Arabic Language (Al lukathul
Arabiyya Wal Adhabul Islami)
Contents for each subject are given in annex - 2.
11. Structure of the question paper
* Each question paper will consist of Part I, II and III.
• The question in Part-1 is compulsory. There will be 10
short questions. Each question will carry 04 marks.
Eg: How would you convert your day-to-day activities
to Ibadha?
(4x10 = 40 marks)
• Part-II will consist of 5 structured questions, out of which
only 4 questions should be answered. Each question
carries 12 marks.
(12x4 = 48 marks)
• Part-III will consist of 2 essay type questions, out of
which only one question should be answered. It carries
12 marks.
(12x1=12 marks)
Criteria for determination of passes
* Each question paper will carry a total of 100 marks.
* Pass mark will be 40 marks.
(a) 00-24 marks F
(b) 25-39 marks W
(c) 40-54 marks S
(d) 55-64 marks C
(e) 65-74 marks B
(f) 75-100 marks A
Re-scrutiny of answer scripts.– Application for re-scrutiny of
answer scripts should be forwarded through the Principal of the
institution in the stipulated forms provided by the Department of
examination within 30 days from the release of results. How ever a
fee will be levied and it will be refunded only if the results get
changed.
Each candidates should abide by the conditions and instructions
given above. Decisions of the Commissioner General of Examination
will be final regarding any other matter not mentioned above.
A
NURA EDIRISINGHE,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examination, Sri Lanka
Pelewatte,
Battaramulla.
15th January, 2008.
Annexture-1
TOWNS WHERE EXAMINATION CENTRES
WILL BE SET-UP
District Number Town Number
01. Colombo District
Colombo Central 01
Bambalapitiya 02
02. Gampaha District
Thihariya 03
Mabola 04
Negombo 05
03. Kaluthara District
Kaluthara 06
Aluthgama 07
04. Galle District
Galle 08
05. Matara District
Matara 09
06. Hambantota District
Hambantota 10
07. Kegalle District
Warakapola 11
Mawanella 12
08. Kurunagala District
Kuliyapitiya 13
Kurunegala 14
Galgamuwa 15
09. Puttalam District
Chilaw 16
Puttalam 17
Kalpitiya 18
10. Anuradhapura District
Anuradhapura 19
Kekirawa 20
Galenbindunuwewa 21

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
159
11. Polonnaruwa District
Kaduruwela 22
12. Matale District
Matale 23
13. Kandy District
Kandy 24
Nawalapitiya 25
Akurana 26
14. Nuwara Eliya District
Nuwara Eliya 27
15. Ratnapura District
Balangoda 28
16. Badulla District
Badulla 29
Welimada 30
17. Monaragala District
Bibile 31
18. Ampara District
Sammanthurai 32
Kalmunai 33
Akkaraipattu 34
19. Batticaloa District
Kaththankudi 35
Eravur 36
V alaichenai 37
20. Trincomalee District
Trincomalee 38
Mutur 39
Kinniya 40
21. Vavuniya District
Vavuniya 41
22. Mannar District
Mannar 42
23. Mullaitivu District
Mullaitivu 43
24. Kilinochchi District
Kilinochchi 44
25. Jaffna District
Jaffna 45
Annexture-2
01. AQEEDHA AND MASADIRUSH-SHAREEA
1.1 Islamic Aqeedha
1.1.1 Islamic Aqeedha-Introduction and general description
1.1.2 Contents of Islamic Aqeedha
1.1.2.1 Thawheed
- Al uluhiyya
- Al rububiyya
- Understanding Allah’s characteristics
through Asmaul Husna
1.1.2.2 Ruhaniyyath
1.1.2.3 Nubuwwath
1.1.2.4 Sam-iyyath
1.1.2.5 Kala-Kadhr
1.1.3 Divisions of Aqeedha
1.2 Masadirush Shareea
1.2.1 Masadirun nakliyya-Introduction
1.2.2 Wahi
- Importance of Wahi
- Types of Wahi
1.2.3 Al-Quran
1.2.3.1 Revelation and complication
- Thartheeb nusul, thatheeb thilawath
1.2.3.2 Structure
- Makki-Madani
- Nasik-Mansoor
- Muhkam-Muthashabir
- Asbabun nusul
1.2.3.3 Ihjasul Quran
- Related to language
- Related to law
- Related to science
1.2.3.4 Art of Thafseer
- Origin and development
- Thafseers (Mankool, Mahkool, Modern
Thafseers)
1.2.3.5 Relations with Al-Quran
- Method of approaching Al-Quran
- Aims of Al-Quran
- Methods of learning Al-Quran
1.2.4 Assunna
1.2.4.1 Description - Literary and practical
1.2.4.2 Sunna as a source for making of law
1.2.4.3 Protection of Hadhees
- Nabi (sali)’ s era
- Sahaba’s era
- Thabieens’s era
- Thabauth thabieen’s era
- Modern era
1.2.4.4 Hadhees related arts and their effects
- Asmaur rijal
- Ilmul jarah wath thahtheel
- Usulau Hadhees
1.2.4.5 Understanding of Hadhees
- Hadhees as guidance for life
- Hadhees compilations
District Number Town Number

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
160
1.2.4.6 Approaching Hadhees
- Understanding of Hadhees related to several
fields (Protection of environment, health,
economics, science)
1.2.4 Supportive Sources
1.2.5.1 Ijthihad
- Description - Literary and practical
- Importance
- Divisions of thoughts (Madrasathul asar,
Madrasathul rauyu)
1.2.5.2 Mujthahids
- Qualifications and types
- Their contribution
- Origin and growth of Madhabs
1.2.5.3 Supportive Sources
- Mechanism and uses (Ijma, Kiyas, Maslaha,
Mursala, Urf, Sharau, Sabika, Isthishan,
Isthishab, Kawlussahaba, Sadhadhus Sarau)
02. AL FIKHUL ISLAM
2.1 Ibadhath
2.1.1 Thaharath : Najees-Description
- Conditions and regulations
2.1.2 Ibadhath
- Literal description and application
- Types of Ibadhaths and its principles
- Relations between Imaan and Ibadhath
2.2 Basic Ibadhath
2.2.1 Salath
- Importance
- Types
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.2 Zakath
- Importance, regulations
- Benefits
- Importance of institutionalizing of Zakath
- Zakathul Fithr
2.2.3 Saum
- Importance, types
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.4 Al Haj
- Importance
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.5 Other Ibadhath
- Sadhaka, Umrah
- Thilawathul Quran, Thowba-Isthihfar, Zikr-
Awradh, Dua
- Kawf, Rajaa, Rila, Thawakkul, Warau, Suhdh
- Siyarathul Kuboor, Kurbani
2.3 Muamalath
2.3.1 Islamic Economy
- Introduction
- Characteristics
2.3.2 Earning and spending
- Importance of earning
- Agriculture (Musara-a, Ihyaul Mamath)
- Industry
2.3.3 Business
- Importance
- Business methods approved by Islam (Samsara,
Baiuth-thakseedh, Mularaba, Musharaka,
Murabaha, Ijara, Rahn)
- Modern business methods (Compare with other
business methods : eg: Banking, Insurance)
2.3.4 Methods of earning prohibited by Islam
- Adulteration, cheating, hoarding
- Bribe, Gambling, Interest
- Selling things which are haram
2.4 Munakahath
2.4.1 Nikah
- Islamic view of Nikah
- Nikah-Regulations
- Polygamy
2.4.2 Family
- Importance of family life
- Husband-wife-relationship
- Duties and rights
- Bringing up of children-Teachings and guidance
- Parents and children-Duties and rights
- Warasath
2.4.3 Divorce
- Islamic view of divorce
- Types and regulations
- Iddhah-Description, conditions, maintenance
2.5 Jinayath
2.5.1 Jinayath-Introduction
2.5.2 Crimes
- Types
- Remedy
2.5.3 Punishment
- Islamic view of punishment
- Hudhoodh, Kisas, Thahseer
- Kaffara, Fidhya
3. SEERA AND ISLAMIC HISTORY
3.1 Islamic view of History
- Characteristics of Islamic History
3.2 Historical Periods
3.2.1 Nabi (sal)'s period
- Period before Nabi (sal)
- Nabi (sal) - Makka period
- Nabi (sal) - Madeena period
3.2.2 Period of Kulafaurrshidheen
- Kaleefa - Method of selection
- Expansion of kingdom
- Reasons and methods

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
161
- Challenges encountered
- Personality traits and exemplars of Kaleefa
3.2.3 Period of later Kaleefas
3.2.3.1 Umayya period
- Uprise of Umayya
- Major Kaleefas - Personality traits and
contributions (Muaviya, Abdhul Malik,
Waleedh, Umar Ibnu Abdhul Azeez)
- Expansion of kingdom and consequences
- Challenges encountered
3.2.3.2 Abbasid period
- Uprise of Abbasis
- Major Kaleefas and their contributions
(Mansoor, Haroon, Mamoon)
- Comparisons of rules of Kulafaurrshidheen
with the rule of later Kaleefas
3.2.3.3 Other rulers
- Umayyad rule in Spain
- Mogul rule in India
- Usmaniaya rule in Turkey
3.2.3.4 Modern Islamic world
3.3 Islamic Art
3.3.1 Sciences
- Islamic of view of sciences
- Development of following sciences and
  contributions : Medical, History, Mathematics,
  Astronomy, Geography
3.3.2 Aesthetic Art
- Islamic view of aesthetic art
- Origin and development of the following art :
  Quira-ath, Calligraphy, Arabesque,   Architecture,
Miniature art, Music
3.4 Contributions of Masjids in Islamic History
- Origin and services of masjids
- Origin and importance of the following masjids :
  Masjidhul Haram, Masjidhul Nabavi, Masjidhul
  Aqsa
3.5 History of Sri Lankan Muslims
3.5.1 Arrival of Arabs
3.5.2 Introduction of Islam in Sri Lanka
3.5.3 Sri Lankan Muslims
- Spreading of settlements
- Old and new settlements
3.5.4 Religious and Social Structure
- Masjidhs
- Muslim Personal law
- Laws related to Wakf and divorce
- Court of Quasi and appeal court of Quasi
- Department of Muslim religious and cultural
  affairs
3.6 Muslim Historical Leaders
3.6.1 Sahabas :
[Musab Ibnu Umair (Rali), Bilal (Rali), Saidh Ibnu
Sabith (Rali), Thulbijadhain (Rali), Ummu Amara
(Rali), Asma Binthi Abubakr (Rali), Fathima (Rali)]
3.6.2 Thabieens :
(Umar Ibnu Abdhul Azeez, Saeedh Ibnu Musaiyyab,
Atha Inbu Abee Rabah, Imam Zuhri)
3.6.3 Thinkers - Reformers :
(Abdhul Quadir Jeelani, Imam Gazzaly, Abul Hasan
Shathuli, Ibnu Kaiyyoom Al Jawsy, Muhammadh
Ibnu Abdhul Wahhab, Maulana Ilyas, Imam Hasanul
Banna, Maulana Moudhoodhi)
4. SOCIETY AND ETHICS
4.1 Society
4.1.1 Introduction
- Man, Islamic view of universe and life
4.1.2 Individual man
- Man's contribution in society
- Man's duties towards society
4.1.3 Family
- Individual man and family
- Family's role in Islamic social structure
- Family's role and duties in the formation of
  individual man
- Relationship in the family
- Relatives and neighbours
4.1.4 Society
- Characteristics of Islamic social structure
  (Equality, brotherhood, independence, justice)
- Man and society (Rights)
- Promoting good deeds and demoting bad deeds
- Characteristics and duties of Islamic trainer
- Relationships of Muslims in a multi-ethnic society
- Protecting the weak ones
- V ocational guidance
- Social ethics (Tolerance, compromise,   thawasun,
obeying for leadership, social   communication)
- Strengthening an weakening factors of social
  relationships
4.2 Ethics
4.2.1 Relationships with Allah
- Ihlas
- Thaqwa

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
162
- Thawakkul
- Acceptance of Allah's wills wholeheartedly
- Love towards Allah
- Be thankful
4.2.2 Social ethics related to human relationships
- Brotherhood
- Truthfulness
- Trustworthy
- Forgiving
- Cleanliness
- Kindness
- Shyness
- Patience
4.2.3 Ethics related to other living beings and things
- Showing love towards living beings and look   into
their welfare
- Protecting physical environment
- Doing good for the country
- Disaster management
5. ISLAMIC LITERATURE AND ARABIC LANGUAGE
5.1 Islamic Literature
- Theories and Principles of Islamic Literature
- Modern Islamic Literature - An introduction
5.2 Contribution of the following individuals towards Islmaic
Literature
In Tamil :
- M. C. Siththy lebbe
- Dr. M. M. Uvais
- A. M. A. Azeez
- Umar Hazrath
- U. M. Thasim
- Poet, Abdhul Kadar lebbe
In Sinhala :
- Dr. M. M. Uvais
- S. M. Mansoor
- A. M. Shahul Hameed
- M. H. M. Shums
- M. A. Mahamed Master (Dikwella)
- Matara, Cassim Poet
5.3 Arabic Tamil
5.3.1 Arabic Tamil - Introduction
- Arabic Tamil Origin and development
5.3.2 Knowledge related to the following creative works
- Fathuhudhdhayyan - Alimul Aroos
- Thafseer - Seiku Musthafa (Beruwala)
- Quthbas of Ibnu Nufadha
- Meesan Malai
- Thalai Fathiha
- Thakkashurudh
5.4 Arabic Language
5.4.1 Development of language skills
- Listening
- Speaking
- Reading
- Writing
5.4.2 W ords and phrases used in day-to-day life
- Short sentences
5.4.3 T ranslate into Arabic from English/Sinhala/Tamil
Translate into English/Sinhala/Tamil from Arabic
5.4.4 Answer questions related to a given paragraph
- Insertion of punctuation marks in the paragraph
5.4.5 Appreciation of literature - Al Quran and Sunna
- Mufradhathul Quran
- Description of a given situation
5.4.6 Ahkamuth Thajweedh - Laws of Thajweedh
5.4.7 Grammatical knowledge
5.4.7.1 Assarbu
- Verbs - Past, present and future
- Verbs - First person, second person, third
  person
- Difference of masculine, feminine, singular
  and plural
- Verb - Commands
- Passive verbs - In past and present tense
- Base verbs (Masther)
- Plural forms
5.4.7.2 Annahwu
- Al Mufthadha wal kafar
- Al fial wal fa-il
- Asmaul Ishara
- Assifath
- Huruful Jarru
- Al mulaf wal mulaf ilaihi
- Kaana wa akawathuha
- Inna wa akawathuha
- Al Haal
02-370
DEPARTMENT  OF  AYURVEDA
Recruitment for training of Pupil Nurses – 2007
THIS refers to the Gazette Notification published on 05.10.2007 on
the above subject and to the Gazette Notification again published on
09.11.2007 making certain amendments on items.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
163
Paragraph 4(B) of the gazette notification is hereby amended by
substituting the paragraph 4(B) under mentioned.
4(B) Applicants will be selected only by the marks obtained at
the competitive examination and no marks will be given for the
interviews, out of the approved cadre of Health Care staff 80%
from the external applicants, 10% from the internal applicants and
the remaining 10% from the children of the Ayurvedic practitioners
registered at the Medical Council will be recruited.
Selected applicants as Ayurvedic Pupil Nurses will be directed
to the National Institute of Traditional Medicine of the Department
of Ayurveda to follow a three year training course in Sinhala/Tamil
medium.
A
SOKA MALIMAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine.
02–518
DEPARTMENT  OF  RAILWAYS
Written Competitive Examination for recruitment from
external candidates to the posts of Permanent Way
Inspector, Inspector of Buildings, Inspector of Bridges and
Inspector of Signal & Telecommunications, Running Shed
Foreman and Mechanical Foreman in Class II Segment (B)
of the Railway Supervisory Management Service
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who are
not less than 21 years and not more than 30 years of age as at
15.03.2008 to fill vacancies in each of the following posts in the
Department of the Railways (the upper age limit is not applicable
to those who are already in Government Service) The closing date
of applications is 15.03.2008. The applications should be sent
under registered cover to reach the General Manager Railways,
Office of the “General Manager of Railways, P.O. Boc 355, Colombo
10” before the closing date of applications.
No application should be addressed personally to any officer of
the department or delivered by hand. Incomplete, informal, non-
qualified or late applications will be rejected without any notice.
The candidates who are in the Public or Provincial Public Service
should forward their applications through the Heads of their
respcective Departemtnes, Institutions before the stipulated date.
(01) Posts for which applications are called :
Inspector of Permanent Ways
Inspector of Buildings
Inspector of Bridges
Inspector of Signal and Telecommunications
Running Shed Foreman
Mechanical Foreman
(01) Nature of duties in each post :
1. Permanent way inspector :— To attend to the duties of
a works supervisor when new constructions are made
in the Railway line network, when repairs are done and
when maintaining the services for the operation.
2. Building Inspector:— To attend to the duties of a works
supervisor in the construction of new buildings, repairing
and maintenance of same.
3. Inspector of Bridges  :— To attend to the duties of a
works supervisor in the construction of all types of
new bridges in the railway line network, repairing and
maintenance of same.
4. Inspector of Signaling and Telecommunications.— To
attend to the duties of a work supervisor in the
construction of a new telecommunication system and
signal network to suit the operation of trains, repairing
and maintenance of same.
5. Running-shed Foremen:— To attend to the duties of a
works supervisor in rapairing and maintenance of
engines, vehicles and carriages after having identified
the technical defects.
6. Mechanical Foreman :— To attend to the duties of a
works supervisor in repairing machinery inclusive of
engines and wagons to suit the operation of the trains
and production of new additional spare parts as and
when required and their maintenance.
(03) Salary Scale .— (As per P. A. Circular No. 06/2006) Class
IIB : MN – 3-2006-III
(04) Educational qualificaitons . — Recruitment to class II
Segment(B) of the railway Supervisory Management Service
will be made from among those who have passed the
G .C.E.(O/L) examination in 06 subjects at not more than
two sittings with credit passes in Language/Literature,
Mathematics, Science and one more subject ; and
Who have passed the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination in 03
subjects at one sitting in the old syllabus including two
subjects out of Pure Mathematics, Applied Mathematics
and Chemistry or Physics ; or
Who have passed the G .C.E.(A/L) Examination in three
subjects in one sitting in the new syllabus including 02
subjects out of the three subjects (Combined Mathematics,
Chemistry and Physics) ; and
Should have a Diploma in the relevant field awarded from
the following institutions (in the case of candidates applying
for the post of Inspector of Permanent Ways/Inspector of
Buildings/Inspector of Bridges they should be Civil Diploma
holders and the candidates applying for the post of

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
164
Mechanical Foreman/Running Shed Foreman should be
either mechanical or electrical Diploma holders. Those who
are applying for post of inspector of Signaling and
Telecommunications should be electrical or electronic
diploma holders).
(i) National Technological Diploma offered by the
Moratuwa University or Hardy Institute of Ampara.
(ii) National Higher Engineering Diploma awarded by the
National Apprentices and Industrial Training
Authority.
(iii) Diploma in National Higher Engineering awarded by
the Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open
University.
05. Method of Recruitment.— Candidates who have satisfied the
eligibility criteria stipulated in (04) above will be recruited in order
of their merit at the open written competitive examination.
06. Scheme of Examination of Recruitment of Test :—
(i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
of Examinations under the supervision of the
Technological Service Board.
(ii) Examination Procedure
(a) Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and
English medium.
(b) Candidates should sit for all the papers in the medium
in which they are qualfied under (04) above.
(iii) Subjects of the Examination
(a) Intelligence
(b) Question paper on technology.
Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence :- Duration 01 hour
Total Marks 100
The question paper will be designed to assess the
candidate's competence in comprehension logical
reasoning, instantaneous decision making and ability to
make assessment by the guidance of mathematical and
statistical problems, language passages, graphs, pictures
and diagrams.
(b) Subject of Technology.-
Duration : 03 hours – Total marks 100
Questions will include to test the candidate's knowledge
in the operation of machinery and equipment used in the
fields of construction and maintenance expected from a
Diploma or equivalent certificate holder qualified for
recruitment. The candidates will have to appear for an
examination under the syllabus applicable to the post as
the syllabus relating to each post differs from one another.
Each syllabus is as follows:-
Candidates applying for Permanent Way Inspectors :
The test paper will consist of questions to assess the
candidate’s knowledge and inborn talent on practical
activities connected with the preparation of plans for
construction of railway lines, the ability to read and
understand them, the use of modern machinery and
equipment and construction of railway lines.
Candidates applying for Inspector of Bridges :
Test paper will consist of questions to assess the
candidate's inborn talent and knowledge in regard to
practical activities connected with preparation of plans
for construction of railway bridges, ability to read and
understand them, the use of modern machinery and
equipment and methods of construction of railway
birdges.
Candidates applying for the post of Inspector of
Buildings :
The questions will include to test the candidate's talent
and knowledge of practical activities connected with the
preparation of estimates for construction of buildings
and repairing, use of modern machinery and equipment
in the construction of buildings and ability in the field of
construction of the buildings.
Candidates applying the post of Inspector of Signal and
Telecommunications :
This test paper will consist of questions to test the
candidate's knowledge on practical activities connected
with mechanical signaling and electric signaling systems.
Candidates applying for post of Mechanical Foreman :
The test paper will consist of questions to test the
candidate's knowledge on practical activities connected
with the identification of defects in engines, wagons,
carriages and other machinery and attending to such
defects identified.
Candidates applying for the post of Running – shed
Forman :
The test paper will consist of questions to test the
candidate's knowledge on pratical activities connected
with the operation of engines and Motive Power sets
and indentification of their defects so as to ensure their
proper operation.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
165
Scheme of recruitment. – To qualify in each subject 40% of the
marks or more should be obtained. The candidates who pass in
both subjects of the examination by obtaining the highest marks
will be summoned for an interview to examine their qualifications.
No marks will be given at this interview. Recruitment to the post of
Class II (B) will be made from among those who have satisfied the
eligibility criteria as per existing numbers of vacancies and who
have scored the highest marks in both the subjects will be appointed
to the post in Class II Segment (B) depending on the availability of
vacancies.
(07) Instructions for preparation and completion of applications :-
(1) Applications should be prepared on A4 size (Half sheet) using
both sides of the paper.
Details given in –
(1) to (9) in part (A) of page 1
(1) to (3)(III) in Part (B) of page 2
3(IV) in part (B)(IV) to 01(C) in part (B) of page 3
Certificate of Head of Institution and attestation of signature in
page 04 should also be included in the application.
(II)each candidate could apply for only one post. For this
purpose, it would be more convenient for the candidates to read
and understand well (01), (02), (03), (04) and (06) of this notification.
(III) Under no circumstances, the post applied for will be allowed
to change subsequently.
(IV) Examination fees is Rs. 250. It  can be paid to the nearest
post Office. The original of the money order thus obtained should
be affixed on the space provided so that it could not be detached.
Annexing photostat copy of this receipt will be one of the reasons
for rejecting the application.
(V) Application should not accompany any certificate or original
or photostat copy of any certificate and the department will not be
responsible for any such document sent.
(VI) The signature of external candidate should be attested by a
Principal of a Government School or a Justice of the Peace or
Commissioner of oaths or Attorney-at-Law or a commissioned
officer of the three forces or a gazetted police officer or an officer
drawing an initial monthly salary of Rs. 19,755 or more with an
increment of Rs. 1,560 or more in terms of P. A. Circular  6/2006.
(VII) In the case of officers already in Public Service, their
signatures should be certified by the immediate Head of the
Institution. It is compulsory for them to send their applications
through the relevant Head Of Department.
(08) Service conditions
(I)Although the candidates are recruited to Class II Segment (B)
they are subject to a 03 year period of training. They should pass
the examination connected with the training held during the training
and at the end of the training period. If they passed the relevant
examination held at the end of the training period they will be
confirmed in their appointment. The Services of external candidates
will be terminated if they fail to pass the Examinaion. In the case of
Officers already in the public Service, they will be reverted to their
substantial posts.
(II) A candidate selected as class II segment (B) officer should
within a period of three months of the commencement of the training
should enter into a bond with the department that he will serve the
department for a term of 10 years after the training and if he should
fail to comply with he will pay back the cost of training together
with the salaries and allowances drawn by him. If he should fail to
do so, his selection will be cancelled.
Service condition of employment :
(i) The post is permanent and pentionable. If contributions
have already been made towards the W & OP they should
continue to do so.
(ii) Selected candidate will be subjected to the provision of
the Establishment Code and Financial Regulations and
Public Administration Circulars and Orders and
Regulations that may be issued by the Governemnt from
time to time and departmental orders.
L
ALITHASIRI GUNARUWAN,
General Manager Railways.
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Colombo 10.
(The applications are requested to read and understand well in
which inviting applications prior to completion of the application
on A-4 sheets).
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
For office use only
S
RI LANKA DEPARTMENT OF RAILWAYS
APPLICAITON FOR THE POST OF ----------------------- OF THE RAILW AY
SUPERVISORY MANAGEMENT SERVICE
Part A (1st Page of the application)
01. The Post applied for :–––––––––––.
02. Surname with initials :–––––––––––.
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––––.
03. Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––––.
04. Permanent Address:
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
166
05. Sex (Indicate ‘3’ in the relevant cage) :
Male Female
06. Residence :
(i) Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretary's Division :–––––––––––.
(iii) District :–––––––––––.
07. Ethnic Group (Indicate ‘3’ in the relevant cage) :
Sinhala Indian Tamil
Sri Lanka Tamil Burger
Muslim Malay
Others
08. Medium applied for (Indicate ‘3’ in the relevant cage) :
Sinhala     T amil English
09. Citizenship (Indicate ‘3’ in the relevant cage)
By descent By registration
(2
nd page for application)
Part (B)
(01)(i) Date of Birth :–––––––––.
Age as on 15.03.2008 :
Years :––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :––––––.
(02) National Identity Card No.:–––––––––––.
(03) Educational Qualifications :
(i) G.C.E.(O/L) – First Sitting :
Index No. :–––––––––––. Year :–––––––––––.
Serial No. Subject Grade
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
(viii)
(ii) G.C.E.(O/L) – Second sitting :
Index No. :–––––––––––.     Year :–––––––––––.
Serial No. Subject Grade
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
(viii)
G. C. E. (Advanced Level) :
Index No. :–––––––––.   Year :–––––––––.
Serial No. Subject Grade
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(3
rd page of applcation)
(IV) T echnological Qualifications :–––––––––.
Name of Course/Certificate :–––––––––.
Institution :–––––––––.
Year obtained :–––––––––.
Subjects Passed :–––––––––.
(04) Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court
of Law?
If so, give the details.
Yes N o
Part (C)
(01) Certificate of the applicant:
(a) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me
in this application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge. I am fully aware that my candidature will
be cancelled for non completion of a particular part
herein and/or incorrect and/or false completion. I
personally bear the consequences thereto.
(b) I declare that I am liable to dismissal if the particulars
furnished in (A) above are found to be false after the
appointment. I also personally bear the consequences
thereto.
(c) Money order bearing No:----------------- obtained after
making a payment of Rs. 250 is attached hereto.
Affix the Money Order here
(d) I do hereby agree to abide by the conditions of this
examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applcant.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
167
(page 04 of the application)
(02) Attestation
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr/Mrs/Miss
………………… is personally known by me and he/she placed
his/her signature before me.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :–––––––––,
Full Name of Attestor :–––––––––,
Designation :–––––––––,
Address :–––––––––,
(Official Seal should be placed)
(03) Certificate of the Head of Department/Institution
(Only for those who are already in Govt./Provincial Public
Service)
Mr./Mrs/Miss …………………… who has forwarded the
above application is serving in the Department of………… from
………… to ……………… No disciplinary action is pending against
him. His/Her work attendance and conduct have been satisfactory/
unsatisfactory. He/She can/cannot be released from this Department/
Institution if he is selected for the post.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Date:–––––––––,
Name :–––––––––,
Designation :–––––––––,
Address :–––––––––,
(Official seal should be placed)
02-388
DEPARTMENTAL  EXAMINATION  FOR
PRELIMINARY  GRADE
MEDICAL  OFFICERS  &  DENTAL  SURGEONS
MARCH - 2008
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination for
Preliminary Grade Medical Officers & Dental Surgeons which
should be passed by Preliminary Grade Medical Officers before
promotion to grade II and which should be passed by Dental
Surgeons before confirmation in the service in terms of Section 07
of the Minute of Medical Officers in the Health Services, published
in the Gazette (Extra Ordinary)  No. 662/11 of 17.05.1991 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, will be held on
30.03.2008 in Sinhala, Tamil & English media. The venue and the
time of the examination will be notified along with the Admission
Card.
02. Qualifications.– Preliminary Grade Medical Officers & Dental
Surgeons who have not completed the relevant examination can
apply for this examination.
03. Applications.– Applications prepared by the candidates as
per specimen appended to this letter should be sent under Registered
cover to reach the Director (Examinations) "Suwasiripaya", No.
385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10,
on or before 29.02.2008 through their Heads of Institutions. The
Head of Division should certify the accuracy of contents in each
application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9"x4" inches,
affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 30.00 should be sent along
with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private
address) Applications which are received late, incomplete or
inaccurate will be rejected.
04. Examination fees :
I. Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However in every subsequent
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per
subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application
and cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
II. The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any
other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination:
I. Candidates whose applications have been accepted will
be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly
complete and submit same to the Supervisor at the
Examination Centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed
to sit the examination.
II. Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor
at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the
follwing documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) Departmental Identity Card ;
(c) Driving License ;
(d) Passport.
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consist of
three written question papers & a Sinhala/Tamil Viva Voce test.
Each part will receive 100 Marks. Candidates should score a
minimum of 50 marks for a pass in each part. The Examination can
be completed at one sitting or at several sittings.
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
7.1 Written Examination :
7.1.1 Establishments Code :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out
of eight (08) questions. Total marks 100.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
168
Syllabus :
(i) Establishments Code :
(a) Part I - Chapters II, III, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX,
XI, XII, XIII, XV , XXIV , XXV , XXVII,
XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII
(b) Part II - Chapters XLVII & XL VIII
(ii) General Regulations of the Department of Health
Services
(iii) Orders of the Public Service Commission
7.1.2 Administration of Hospitals & Dispensaries :
Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should
answers four (04) questions out of seven (07)
questions.
Syllabus :
Health Mannual :
Part I - Medical Services
Part II - Laboratory Services
7.1.3 Accounts :
Duration 02 hours. Should answers 04 questions
out of 7 questions. Total Marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Financial Regulations - Part i
Chapter I - All Sections
II - All Sections
III - All Sections
IV  - All Sections
V - Sections 1, 2, 3 4 and 6
VI - All Sections
VII - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 & 6
(ii) Regulations of Stores Accounts of the
Department of Health Services
(iii) Sections of Finance in the manual of the
Department of Health Services
(iv) Financial Regulations relating to the daily
routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health.
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil.– The Staff Officers in the
Department of Health Service will conduct this
Examination in Colombo to examine the proficiency in
Sinhala/Tamil Language. Total Marks 100. Skills of
Officers to discuss on matters pertaining to their daily
routine duties will be examined.
8. The information is also available in the Web Site -
www.health.gov.lk
9. Please consider that the results of the examination September
2007 will be issued immediately in the due course of time.
Dr. U. A. A
JITH MENDIS,
Director General of Health Services
for Secretary of Health.
Ministry of Health, Nutrition & Welfare,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mw.,
Colombo 10,
30th January, 2008.
Specimen Form of Application
For Office Use Only
DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINATION FOR PRELIMINARY GRADE
MEDICAL OFFICERS & DENTAL SURGEONS - MARCH - 2008
01. (a) (i) Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials at the end) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials at the end) :
(iii) Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
(b) (i)  Designation (Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Date of Internship appointment :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to the preliminary Grade :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2008
169
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘ 3’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark "X" against the subjects not
offered) :
Administration of Hospitals & Dispensaries Ac counts
Establishments Code Sinhala Viva V oce
Tamil Viva V oce
03. ( a) Present Station :–––––––––––.
(b) District of the Present Station :
(c) Examination center preferred (If sufficient number of candidates are not available in this examination center action will be taken
to refer them to the examination Center - Colombo. Mark " 3" in the relevant cage.
Colombo Kandana Mu llieriyawa
Kaluthara Galle Badulla
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
(d) Whether a self-addressed envelop in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 30.00 has been attached to the
application to post the Admission Card? :
(e) (i)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in English Capitals) :––––––––––––.
04. Medium you sit for the examination (Sinhala/English/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
(b) If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
06. Certificate of the candidate :
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I nee d
not affix stamps since I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs. ………… since I repeat
the Examination* and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and not used.
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Department of Health for the conduct of this Examination and
if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination I agree with whatever decision taken for the
cancellation of my candidature.
–––––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––. Signature of the candidate.
07. Certification of Head of Institution :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………is well known to me and he/she* sits the Examination for the first time/repeats the Examination* he/
she* need not affix stamps/has affixed stamps to the value of Rs.……… to the Application and he/she* placed his/her* signature i n my
presence.
–––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––. Signature of Head of Institution/Frank/Rubber Stamp.
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/specialised Campaign :
*Mr/Mrs/Miss …………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the particulars
furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* personal file and  he/she* is
eligible to sit for the Examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
Date :––––––––––––. Specialised Campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
02–390
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.