

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2417$16 - 2024 foieïn¾ ui 31 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2024'12'31
No. 2417/16  -  tuesDAY, December  31, 2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A- PG 6975 - 05 (01/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.D.B 3/2013 (ii)
MERChANT  ShIPPING  ACT,  No.  52  Of  1971
reGuLAtIONs made by the minister of Ports, shipping and Aviation under section 321 of the merchant shipping Act,  
No. 52 of 1971 read with section 139 of the said Act.
 
 
Bimal NiroshaN rathNayake,
 minister of transport, Highways, Ports and civil Aviation.
colombo,
30th December, 2024.
Regulations
	 1.	(1)	 These	regulations	may	be	cited	as	the	Merchant	Shipping	(Vessel	Classification	and	Certification)	Regulations,	
No. 3 of 2024.
  (2) these regulations shall apply to all vessels registered in sri Lanka.
 2. All vessels registered in sri Lanka shall be categorised as groups on the basis of cargo that vessels carry, the operations 
the vessels carry out, the intended use and the type of vessel. the categorisations of vessels are as follows:-
 (a) Group 1 – Passenger Vessels
 (b) Group 2 – cargo Vessels

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
2A
 (c) Group 3 – Vessels in commercial use for sport or pleasure
 (d) Group 4 – Vessels in private use for sport or pleasure (not for hire)
 (e) Group 5 – Work boats 
 (f) Group 6 – Pilot boats
  
 3. All non-convention vessels registered in sri Lanka shall be assigned to an area of operation, in accordance with the 
merchant shipping (categorisation of Waters) regulations, No.  2  of 2024 published in the Gazette No. 2417/15 of 
December 31, 2024. the area of operation shall be assigned on review of the design and in conjunction with the design 
categories	as	specified	in	the	applicable	technical	codes	as	listed	below	:-
 (a) Internal Waters craft code;
 (b) small craft code (up to length 24m);
 (c) Large Non-convention craft code (over length 24m); and
 (d) Large Yacht code (over length 24m).
 4. (1) the inspection and survey of non-convention vessels to which these regulations apply shall be carried out by the 
Director-General of merchant shipping (in these regulations referred to as the “Director- General”).
       
	 	(2)	 The	certificates	referred	to	in	these	regulations	shall	be	issued	by	the	Director-General.
  (3) the Director-General may for the purpose of sub regulations (1) and (2) delegate his powers to recognised 
organisations or to certifying bodies.
 
  (4) Non-convention vessels registered in foreign countries that are calling at sri Lankan ports shall have equivalent 
certificates	that	are	acceptable	to	the	Director-General.
	 5.	(1)	 All	non-convention	vessels	registered	in	Sri	Lanka	and	operating	solely	in	Sri	Lanka	waters	shall	have	a	certification	
specific	to	the	vessel	group	and	the	intended	area	of	operation	as	specified	in	the	Schedule	hereto.
	 	(2)	 All	non-convention	vessels	registered	in	Sri	Lanka	and	operating	on	international	voyages	shall	have	a	certification	
as per sub-regulation (1) and the following in addition:-
 (a)  as per the applicable international conventions or parts of the conventions in accordance with the gross tonnage 
of the vessel; or
	 (b)	 an	appropriate	exemption	or	single	voyage	certification.
 6. the non-convention vessels intended for multi role use shall comply with the applicable regulations and are required 
to	have	the	appropriate	certification	as	specified	in	the	schedule	hereto.
	 7.	 All	vessels	other	than	the	non-convention	vessels	shall	meet	the	certification	requirements	of	the	applicable	international	
conventions.
 8. (1) the Director-General may exempt any non-convention vessel from the requirements in these regulations, if he 
is	satisfied	that	compliance	with	such	provisions	is	either	impracticable	or	unreasonable.	The	particulars	of	same	
and	the	reasons	therefor	shall	be	specified	in	the	exemption	certificate.
  (2) the Director-General may subject to giving reasonable notice alter or cancel any such exemption.
 9. In these regulations –
“boat ”
 means a vessel of less than 24 m in length, or a vessel of less than 150 Gt . A boat can be a boat, air cushion 
vehicle,	sailing	craft,	inflatable	craft;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
3A
“cargo” means all items which are transported by the boat except fuel for the boat, ballast (either solid or liquid) 
consumables	to	be	used	on	board,	permanent	outfit	and	equipment	of	the	boat,	stores	and	spare	
gear for the boat, crew and their personal baggage and passengers and their personal baggage, and 
activity related equipment;
“cargo vessel” means any vessel which is not a passenger ship;
“certifying body” means a company or a professional organisation that has been recognised and licensed by the 
Director-General	for	the	purpose	of	survey,	inspection	and	certification	of	non-convention	vessels;
“craft” shall have the same meaning as for ship;
“domestic voyage” means a voyage from a port or place in sri Lanka to the same or another port or place in sri Lanka;
“ferry” means a vessel used to carry passengers, automobiles and cargo on a commercial basis between terminals, 
across a river or other comparatively small body of water;
“gross tonnage (Gt)” shall have the same meaning as given by the International convention on tonnage measurement 
of	Ships	1969	and	as	stated	on	the	tonnage	certificate;
“length” means either 96 per cent of the total length on a waterline at 85 per cent of the least moulded depth measured 
from the top of the keel, or the length from the foreside of the stem to the axis of the rudder stock 
on that waterline, whichever is the greater. In a boat designed with a rake of keel, the waterline on 
which this length is measured should be parallel to the design waterline;
“nautical mile” means 1852 m.
“non-convention vessel” means a vessel for which international conventions do not apply and vessels operating 
solely on domestic voyages for which the Director-General has granted exemptions from the applicable 
International conventions that apply due to the vessels Gt .  Where due to the Gt  of the vessel or area 
of operation parts of international conventions are applicable, they would apply unless exemption 
has been granted by the Director-General;
“passenger vessel” means a ship which carries more than twelve passengers; 
“pilot boat” means a boat employed or intended to be employed in pilotage services, and ‘dedicated pilot boat’ 
means a pilot boat of whatever size which is primarily employed in pilotage services and other 
occasional services undertaken such as the carriage of personnel, mail and small quantities of stores 
to or from boats in the pilotage district;
“recognised organisation” means any organisation that has been recognized by the Director-General in accordance 
with the provisions of the code for recognised Organisations adopted by the International maritime 
Organisation;
“registration” means the process of registering a vessel with the merchant shipping secretariat of the sri Lanka 
ministry of Ports and shipping;
“ship” means a waterborne vessel of more than 24m in length, or a vessel of more than 150 Gt ;
“vessel”	means	a	ship	or	boat	as	defined	in	these	regulations;
“vessel	groups”	means	the	categorisation	of	a	boat	or	ship	in	accordance	to	its	intended	use	as	defined	by	these	
regulations;
“work boat” means a non-convention vessel in commercial use for purposes other than sport or pleasure, excluding 
a dedicated pilot boat.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
4A
scHeDuLe
(regulation 5(1))
Non-convention	vessels	operating	solely	in	Sri	Lanka	waters	would	require	the	appropriate	certification	from	the	following	
as	specified	in	the	relevant	codes	and	as	required	due	to	size	of	the	vessel:
	 1.	 Group	1	–	Passenger	vessel	certification	-
	 (a)	 Internal	Waters	Craft	Code	Certificate	–	Passenger	or
	 (b)	 Small	Craft	Code	Certificate	(up	to	length	24m)	–	Passenger	or
	 (c)	 Large	Non-Convention	Craft	Code	Certificate	(over	length	24m)	–	Passenger		
	 (d)	 	Tonnage	Certificate	(if	vessel	is	over	24m)	
	 (e)	 	Load	line	Certificate	-	required	for	new	vessels	over	24m	and	existing	vessels	(built	before	January	
1972) of more than 150Gt  
	 (f)	 	Safety	Radio	Certificate	–	Vessels	over	300	GT.
	 2.	 Group	2	–	Cargo	vessel	certification	-
 (a)	 Internal	Waters	Craft	Code	Certificate	–	Non-passenger
   or 
	 (b)	 Small	Craft	Code	Certificate	(up	to	length	24m)		–	Non-passenger	
  or
	 (c)	 Large	Non-Convention	Craft	Code	Certificate	(over	length	24m)	–	Non-passenger
	 (d)	 Tonnage	Certificate	(if	vessel	is	over	24m)	
	 (e)	 Load	line	Certificate	-	required	for	new	vessels	over	24m	and	existing	vessels	(built	before	Jan	1972)	
of more than 150gt
	 (f)	 Safety	Radio	Certificate	–	Vessels	over	300	GT
	 (g)	 Certificate	of	fitness	(chemical	or	gas)		–	for	chemical	tankers	or	gas	carriers
 (h) Document of compliance with the special requirements for ships carrying dangerous goods (ImDG 
code) .
 3. Group	3	–	 Vessels	in	commercial	use	for	sport	or	pleasure	certification	–
	 (a)	 Internal	Waters	Craft	Code	Certificate	
  or
	 (b)	 Small	Craft	Code	Certificate	(up	to	length	24m)	 	
  or
	 (c)	 Large	Non-Convention	Craft	Code	Certificate	(over	length	24m)	
	 (d)	 Tonnage	Certificate	(if	vessel	is	over	24m)	
	 (e)	 Load	line	Certificate	-	required	for	new	vessels	over	24m	and	existing	vessels	(built	before	Jan	1972)		
of more than 150 Gt  
	 (f)	 Safety	Radio	Certificate	–	Vessels	over	300	GT.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'31
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2024
5A
	 4.	 Group	4	–	Vessels	in	private	use	for	sport	or	pleasure	(not	for	hire)		Certification	–
 (a)	 Internal	Waters	Craft	Code	Certificate
  or
	 (b)	 Small	Craft	Code	Certificate	(up	to	length	24m)	
  or 
	 (c)	 Large	Yacht	Code	Certificate	(over	length	24m)	
	 (d)	 Tonnage	Certificate	(if	vessel	is	over	24m)
 
Non-convention vessels in private use for sport or pleasure, when not voluntarily registered in sri Lanka would require a 
valid record of compliance against one of the following technical codes:
 (a) Internal Waters craft code record of compliance
 (b) small craft code record of compliance
 (c) Large Yacht code record of compliance.
	 5.	 Group	5	–	Work	Boats	certification	–
 
 (a)	 Internal	Waters	Craft	Code	Certificate	
  or
	 (b)	 Small	Craft	Code	Certificate	(up	to	length	24m)	 	
  or
	 (c)	 Large	Non-Convention	Craft	Code	Certificate	(over	length	24m)		
	 (d)	 Tonnage	Certificate	(if	vessel	is	over	24m)	
	 (e)	 Load	line	certificate	-	required	for	new	vessels	over	24m	and	existing	vessels	(built	before	Jan	1972)		
of more than 150gt
 (f) Safety	Radio	Certificate	–	Vessels	over	300	GT.	
	 6.	 Group	6	–	Pilot	Boats	certification	-
 (a)	 Internal	Waters	Craft	Code	Certificate	
  or
	 (b)	 Small	Craft	Code	Certificate	(up	to	length	24m)	 .
eOG 01 - 0011
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.