

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2010
w;s úfYI
wxl 1646$2 - 2010 ud¾;= 22 jeks i÷od - 2010'03'22
No. 1646/2  -  MONDAY ,   MARCH   22,  2010
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
NORTH  CENTRAL  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Local  Authorities  (Standard  By-Laws)  Act,  No.  6  of  1952
DRAFT By-Laws made under Section 2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952 (Chapter 262)
by Bertie Premalal Dissanayaka, Provincial Minister  in-charge of Local Government of the North Central Provincial
Council, by virtue of the powers vested in me by the aforesaid Act, read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils.
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989.
For the purposes of Sub-section (2) of Section 2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952
(Chapter 262) it is declared that a Pradeshiya Shaba is authorized to make and adopt these By-Laws under Section 122
read with Section 126 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
B
ERTIE PREMALAL DISSANAYAKA,
Provincial Minister  in-charge of Local Government of the
 North Central Provincial Council,
Anuradhapura,
01st January, 2010.
By-Laws
01. These By-Laws may be cited as “Rural Water Supply Schemes Managed by Community Based Organizations
By-Laws”.
02. (1) It shall be the responsibility of any Pradeshiya Sabha to extend necessary assistance to a Community
Based Organization (hereinafter referred to as CBO) who carries on the business of water supply and works
with  in such Pradeshiya Sabha Area.
(2) The CBO shall prior to carrying on the business of water supply and water works within a Pradeshiya
Sabha area obtain the approval of such Pradeshiya Sabha.
(3) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall upon the receipt of an application for such approval, grant or reject approval
for same within 14 days of receipt of such application and in the event of rejection of approval,
shall give reasons for such rejection.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'22
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2010
2A
03. It shall be the duty of a CBO to manage a water supply and water works scheme in conformity with the
conditions specified in Schedule I to these By-Laws.
04. (1) A person who wishes to have a private water service connection may apply to the CBO of the area in the
manner specified by such CBO.
(2) The CBO may either grant the water service connection to the applicant or reject the application for
reasons to be recorded.
(3) A CBO may, among other reasons reject an application for a private water service connection under these
By-Laws, if the CBO is of the view that providing such water connection would hamper the uninterrupted
and regular supply of water to the area.
(4) ( a) When a CBO rejects any application, such CBO shall notify the relevant applicant thereof with
reasons therefore within fourteen days from the receipt of such application.
(b) Where a CBO rejects any application, the party aggrieved by such rejection may make an appeal
therefrom to the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha.
(c) The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall, upon the receipt of an appeal, conduct an appropriate
inquiry and issue appropriate orders within fourteen days from the receipt of such appeal.
(5) Where the CBO decides to grant the water connection, the CBO shall enter into an agreement subject to the
terms and conditions referred to in these BY-Laws, with the applicant before the water connection is given.
(6) The applicant shall pay the expenses for the water connection to the CBO as may be estimated by the CBO.
(7) ( a) The CBO may on exceptional humanitarian grounds exempt an applicant from paying expenses for a new
water connection, or for an alternation of the existing connection as the case may be, where such
applicant is unable to pay such expenses.
(b) The decision for an exemption referred to in paragraph (a) shall be taken at  a general meeting.
05.  (1)  The Chairman of a Pradeshiya Sabha shall register a panel of Water Works Technicians for the purposes of
these By-Laws from among persons :-
(a) Who are members of a CBO and who have received adequate training and acquired adequate skills to
perform the relevant tasks ;
(b) who hold a permit issued by a Local Authority as a water works technicians ;
(c) who hold a Certificate in a relevant skill category issued by a recognized technical college or technical
institution ;
(d) Who hold a Certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board to the effect that he is
competent in water supply and water works.
(2) The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha may register a private corporation as a Water Works Technician Where
such private corporation has in his employment a qualified engineer in water works management or persons
holding qualifications and experience referred to in paragraph (1).

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2010
(3) (a) A register of Water Works Technicians registered under this By-laws, shall be maintained by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(b) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall send a copy of the register or any subsequent alterations or amendments
made to such register to the relevant CBO’s immediately.
06. (1) (a) The CBO shall  obtain a feasibility report from a Water Works Technicians, before effecting an extension
or any alteration to an existing  water supply scheme and shall obtain through the Chairman of the
Pradeshiya Sabha the approval of the Technical Services Committee of such Pradeshiya Sabha for the
said feasibility report.
(b) If the Technical Service Committee of the Pradeshiya Sabha reject to grant approval for same, it shall give
reasons for such rejection.
(c) It shall be the duty of such water Works Technicians to provide such report within 14 days of such
request.
(2) The CBO shall employ a person with sufficient experience in water works when providing a private water
service connection and require a Water Works Technicians to inspect the laying of pipe lines and other
works connected therewith periodically.
07. (1) No person shall use water from a private connection for any purpose other than a purpose indicated in the
agreement, between the CBO and the applicant.
(2) No person shall obtain a water connection or use water from a water supply scheme managed by a CBO
in any manner contrary to these By-laws.
(3) Where a CBO decides that the provisions of paragraphs (1) or (2) are violated by an owner or occupier,
then CBO may disconnect such water connection and shall notify the Pradeshiya Sabaha thereof with
reasons for such disconnection.
08. When laying service pipe lines for a water supply scheme :-
(1) No pipe line shall be laid so as to pass into or through any sewer, drain or cesspool or any manhole
connected therewith or into or through any ash pit manure pit, waste water drain or latrine pit and except
where unavoidable, shall not be laid through or allowed to remain in contact with any contaminated soil or
other material likely to cause undue deterioration of such pipe.
(2) If the criteria referred to in subparagraph (1) could not be met, due to unavoidable circumstances, the pipe
shall be effectively protected from contact with any such substance either by being carried through an
exterior corrosion resisting tube or by some other suitable means.
09. The pipes and fittings used in a water supply scheme shall conform to the standards set out in Schedule 2.
10. The CBO may determine or revise the water tariff rates at a general meeting as may be necessary, and shall get
the general body of the Pradeshiya Sabha to resolve such determinations and revisions.
11 (1)  Where a meter is used for measuring the supply of water from a water supply scheme to any premises,
all  such meters shall be supplied and installed by the CBO.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'22
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2010
4A
(2) Any repair to the meter shall be carried out by the CBO, but the cost of such  repair shall be borne by the
particular owner of occupier of the premises to which water is supplied.
(3) Where a meter is not used for measuring water is provided in paragraph (1), scheme to tariff shall be fixed by
a resolution of the relevant CBO.
12. The consumption of water for any month shall be calculated by taking the difference between the first and
last readings of the meter taken at the commencement and the termination respectively of that month, in the manner
stated below :-
(1) The first reading shall, in the case of a newly fixed meter, be the reading taken when such meter is fixed and in
any subsequent case, the last reading taken for the month immediately preceding. For the purposes of this
By-laws the “Newly fixed meter” shall also mean a meter, which has  been fixed after repairs, or a meter fixed
temporarily during such a period ;
(2) The last reading for any month shall be that taken on any day, not more than ten days after the termination of
that month. However, if a meter is removed for repairs and it is not possible to take the last reading during the
aforesaid period, the last reading shall be the reading that is taken before such meter is removed. for the
purposes of this By-laws the term “last reading “includes the reading at the time of removing of a temporarily
fixed meter ;
(3) If two or more meters have been in use any premises during any month the consumptions for that month shall
be the total sum of  the quantities indicated by the respective meters, as calculated in accordance with
paragraphs (1) and (2) of this By-law ;
(4) Where the CBO is unable to provide a temporary meter when a meter is removed for repairs, or when the
meter has been non-functioning for a long time, then the monthly water consumption shall be assessed on the
basis of consumption of the previous months.
13. (1) It shall be lawful for the CBO to prepare a bill, at the end of each month, in accordance with the provisions
of these By-laws and serve on the owner of occupier of the premise and it shall be the duty of the owner or
occupier to settle such bill within the period stipulated by the CBO.
(2) The consumer may if he feels that the calculation made in the bill referred to in paragraph (1) of this By-laws
is erroneous, he may in writing request for an amendment of the bill. The CBO shall investigate into such
request as soon as possible and inform the decision to the consumer in writing.
14. (1) Where any owner or occupier doubts the accuracy of the meter in his premises, the CBO shall on request
made by such owner or occupier and on prepayment of a testing fee as required by the CBO, cause the
meter to be tested by a Water Works Technician referred to in By-laws 5 in the presence of the owner or
occupier or any other person authorized by such owner or occupier on that behalf. The result of said test
shall be binding on the CBO and on the owner or occupier and the meter shall be corrected according
to the result of the test.
(2) Where the quantity recorded by the meter is correct or differs from the actual quantity of water supplied
by not more than two per centum of the actual quantity supplied then the testing fee prepaid under
paragraph (1) shall be retained by the CBO.
(3) Where the quantity recorded by the meter differs from the actual quantity of water supplied by more than
two per centum of the actual quantity supplied, the testing fee prepaid under paragraph (1) shall be refunded
to the owner or occupier.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2010
(4) Where a default of a meter detected as referred to in paragraph (3) the CBO shall adjust the bills of the
affected owner or occupier in an appropriate manner and account the relevant amounts in the bills for the
following months as appropriate.
15.  A CBO may obtain financial investments from local investors, if additional financial investments is required
for further development of a water supply scheme.
16.  After the date on which these By-laws comes into force—
(1) No water tank or bath exceeding a capacity decided by the CBO shall be installed or constructed on any
premises for holding any part of the water supplied to such premises ;
(2) No water tank or bath shall be installed or constructed in any premises for holding the water supplied
to such premises by a CBO, unless the size, design and the number of such water tanks or baths that are
to be installed or constructed have received the prior approval of the CBO.
17. Whenever water is found running waste from any tap, pipe, meter or any other fittings forming part of the
private water service connection in any premises, the CBO may forthwith direct the relevant owner or occupier to take
remedial action. If action is not taken within three days of such notification, then the CBO may disconnect the service and
such service shall not be reconnected until the owner or occupier of the premises eliminates the cause of the waste.
18. Where a complaint is received by the Chairman of any Pradeshiya Sabha to the effect that water is found
running to waste from any tap, pipe, meter or any other fitting which forms a part of any water supply scheme managed
by a  CBO, the Chairman or any officer authorized by him shall investigate into such complaint and issue appropriate
directions  to the relevant CBO and to other parties connected therewith.
19. A CBO shall at all stages of construction, maintenance and providing extensions to the water supply schemes,
follows the principles of justice and fair play and supply minimum water requirements in respect of every community, and
every individuals who are being served by the scheme.
20. (1) Any person authorized by the CBO on that behalf may, at any time between 7.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. after
giving formal notice to the owner or occupier of any building or premises supplied with water under these
By-laws may enter such building or premises and examine the condition of the pipes, works and fittings and
ascertain whether there is any waste or misuse of water. If such person it at any time without reasonable
cause, refused admittance into such premises or is prevented without reasonable cause from making such
examination the CBO may make a complaint to the Chairman of the Pradehiya  Sabha.
(2) The Chairman shall on receipt of any complaint under paragraph (1), hold an inquiry and if he finds, that an
authorized officer of the CBO has been unduly refused admittance, he may authorize the CBO to discontinue
the supply of water to such building or premises.
(3) A person dissatisfied with the decision taken under paragraph (2) may forward the matter to the appropriate
Magistrate Court.
21. (1) A Pradeshiya Sabha may, by a notice published in the Gazette declare a specified geographical area
as a “Water Catchment Area” with effect from a specified date, provided that it does not contradict any
written law.
(2) No person shall after the specified date, engage in felling  trees, clearing the land, tying animals or polluting
the area in any manner or enter the area without prior approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha or deal with any
development activity which may cause adverse effect to the water source within the water catchment area.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'22
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2010
6A
(3) No person shall cause any damage in any way to the water intake, storage tank, the main pipe line, distribution
pipe line, any building, any constructed component or any equipment belonging to the water supply system.
(4) No person shall on no legal grounds, obstruct the commencement or maintenance of any water supply and
water work business.
22. The Pradeshiya Sabha, the Community Based Organization Forum and the respective CBO’s shall ensure the
proper quality of drinking water from a water supply scheme and for the purpose, shall secure cleanliness, proper
maintenance and safety of water catchment areas and reservoirs used by CBO’s for the water supply schemes and shall
take any other relevant measures in accordance with the instructions and standards issued by the National Water Supply
and Drainage Board, or any other relevant authority.
23. (1) ( a) Any dispute arising in connection with the implementation of these by-laws shall initially be referred
for settlement by mediation ;
(b) Every dispute shall immediately be referred for settlement by mediation within the following 30 days
after in arises.
(2) For the purpose of paragraph (1), a dispute means a dispute between CBO and the Pradeshiya Sabha with
which the CBO is registered or dispute between a CBO and any other adjacent  Pradeshiya Sabha or a
dispute between any of the two Pradeshiya  Sabha  or a dispute between any two CBO’s or a dispute
between the CBO and a consumer.
(3) It shall be the duty of any of the parties to notify the dispute referred to in paragraph (1) and (2) for settlement
by mediation to the Regional Assistant Commissioner of Local Government of the area, who shall be the
mediator.
(4) The Regional Assistant Commissioner of Local Government may nominate any other officer as the mediator
depending on the nature of the dispute.
(5) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the mediator may within a period of thirty days immediately
following such decision, make an appeal against such decision to the Commissioner of Local Government
of the Province.
24. A person who contravenes any of the provisions of these by-laws commits an offence and shall on conviction by,
the Magistrate Court be punished with a fine not exceeding  Seven Hundred  and Fifty Rupees. In the case of continuing
the same offence such person shall be punished with an additional fine of Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty for each day during
which the offence is continued, after conviction by the Court of Law, or after service of a written notice from the Chairman of
a Pradeshiya Sabha or any officer authorized by him directing attention to such contravention.
25. For the purposes of these By-laws—
“Catchment Area” means a geographical area which is identified by a person or a body of person competent
for the purpose and has been declared by the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha  as the geographical area
which is required to develop the flow of water into the water source or which could be determined as
that which feeds the water source or which could be considered as adversely affecting the flow of
water into the source if any change takes place in the area ;
“Community Based Organization” means an organization representing the user community which is a body
corporate and a duly registered under the applicable law formed for the purpose of providing of water
supply and water work services and for the sustainable management of the same ;

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2010
“Community Based Organization Forum” means an organization established collectively by the Community
Based Organization within the Pradeshiya Sabha Area, with representatives from each such Community
Based Organization ;
“National Water Supply and Drainage Board” means the National Water Supply and Drainage Board established
under Law No. 2 of 1974 ;
“Owner or occuper” or “Consumer” means a person who has the legal ownership or who occupies or who makes
use of a premises to which a water supply connection is obtained from the water supply scheme operated
and managed in conformity with these By-laws ;
“Private Water Service” or “private water connection” indicated in these By-laws shall not include a supply of
water for horses or cattle or for washing vehicles where such horses, cattle or vehicles are kept for sale or
hire, or a supply for any trade , manufacture of business, or for fountains or swimming pools or for any
ornamental or mechanical purpose, or for purpose of irrigation or for any purpose other than for drinking
and domestic purpose ;
“Water Supply and Water Works” shall have the same explanation given in paragraph (xiii) of Section 126 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
Schedule - 1 (By-law 3)
ARRANGEMENTS  FOR  MANAGING  A  WATER  SUPPLY  SCHEME
(i)  Every CBO shall issue a receipt for moneys recovered by it and for this purpose is should conform
to the provisions of the Stamp Act.
(ii)  All payments above Rs. 100 shall be made by a voucher.
(iii)  Every CBO shall maintain relevant records including a general ledger, cash book with record of receipts
and payments, a petty cash book and an inventory book.
(iv) ( a) All accounts of CBO shall be audited annually by an independent Auditor or by an Audit Firm and
such reports shall be presented to the Community Based Organization Forum, the Pradeshiya Sabha
and at executive committee meeting of the CBO.
(b) Where the Chairman of the relevant Pradehiya Sabha is of the opinion that it is expedient to do so, he or
any other officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by him may examine all accounts and administrative
affairs relating to the rural water supply scheme of the CBO and issue appropriate directives to the CBO.
(v) CBO shall maintain a Current Bank Account and monthly reconciliation of such Account shall be
prepared before the Fifteenth day of the following month.
(vi) A Register of water consumers shall be maintained.
(vii) W ater service connection shall be given according to the order of the fulfillment of the requirements
of providing such services stipulated by the CBO.
(viii) The CBO, which manages the water supply scheme, shall prepare monthly progress reports and also
shall forward to the Chairman of the relevant Pradeshiya Sabaha a quarterly report on all  accounts and administration
affairs relating to the rural water supply scheme of the CBO.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'03'22
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2010
8A
(ix)  The testing fee provided in by-law 14(1) shall be the real expenditure for such inspection and be a reasonable
amount affordable even for person in a low income group.
(x)  The CBO shall maintain and update for all the items purchased by the CBO, or donated or given on loan by the
Pradeshiya Sabha or any other organization ;
(a) a fixed asset register for all the fixed assets ; and
(b) An inventory for all capital goods,
and prepare a verification report after inspection annually before the audit mentioned in clause (iv) of this Schedule.
Schedule - 2 (By-Law 9)
PIPES  AND  FITTING  USED  IN  A  WATER  SUPPLY  SCHEME
(i)  All polyvinyl chloride pipes (PVC) shall confirm to the SLS standards No. 147 : 1993 or any subsequent
revision. Pipes produced in Sri Lanka shall bear the SLS marking. Joints and fitting for use with PVC pipes shall comply
with SLS 659 ; 1993 or BS 4346 Parts I & II : 1970 and any subsequent revisions.
(ii)  All polyethylene pipes used in the construction of any private water service connections shall conform to
British Standard 6572 : 1985 and any subsequent revisions thereto, or any other national standards, Pipes for above
ground use shall comply with BS 6730 ; 1986 and any other national Standards.
(iii)  All Galvanized Wrought Iron Pipes (G1 pipes) used in the construction of any private water service
connection conform to British Standards 1387 of 1985 and any subsequent revision thereto.
04–196
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.