

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
693
693
wxl 1"755 - 2012 wfm%a,a 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'04'20
No. 1,755 – FRIDAY , APRIL  20, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 696
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 698
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th April, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th  April,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts I-III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,754 of 11.04.2012 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
694
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
695
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
696
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st day  of May,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th March, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Negombo Post of Additional Medical Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Negombo (Out of the Hospital) General, District Secretariat,
Division Gampaha
Gampaha Ja-Ela Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Ragama area in Aluthkuru Koralay General, District Secretariat,
South Division Gampaha
04–507
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KEGALLE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
697
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st day  of May,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
30th March, 2012.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kegalle Mawanella Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kirigandeniya area in Galboda General, District Secretariat,
Kinigoda Koralaya Division Kegalle
Kegalle Ruwanwella Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kannaththota area in Koralathuna and General, District Secretariat,
Pathabulathgama Division Kegalle
04–508
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
KILINOCHCHI   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
698
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st of May, 2012.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
27th March, 2012.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Assistant Government Division and Post for which Address to which
Agent's Division Application is called Applications should be sent
Kilinochchi (Pallai) Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of The District Secretary/The Government
Pachchilaipalli Mullippattu Division and Marriages Agent/The Additional Registrar
(General) of Pachchilaipalli Division General, Dist rict Secretariat,
Kilinochchi.
04–427
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
SRI  LANKA  GERMAN  RAILWAY  TECHNICAL
TRAINING  CENTRE  -  RATHMALANA
Admission of Apprentices – 2012
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens (male/female)
possessing minimum qualifications stipulated in pragraph 02 herein
for admission of apprentices to the Sri Lanka - German Railway
Technical Training Centre for 2012.
02. Minimum Qualifications :–
(a) Should be between 16-25 years as at 31.05.2012 ;
(b) Educational Qualifications .– Passing 06 subjects at the
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination including Sinhala/
Tamil Langauge, Mathematics and Science in not more
than two sittings. It is necessary to posses educational
qualifications completely before 31.12.2011 and passing
of five (05) subjects in first sitting.
03. Training Courses .– The apprentices selected for training
will be given the opportunity to follow the professional course
subject to the period relevant to the profession. Medium of
examination will be only in Sinhala. 25 persons for each of the
following course will be selected.
(i) Diesel Engine Mechanic 2 1/2 years
(ii) Welder 03 years
(iii) Electrician (Power) 03 1/2 years
(iv) Mechanic setter (General) 03 1/2 years.
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS III OF SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE – 2011(2012)
SECTION 3 of the notice regarding the "Open Competitive
Examination for Recruitment to Class III of Sri Lanka Administrative
Secrvice – 2011(2012)" published in Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,751 dated 23rd of March,
2012 is revised as follows on the orders of the Public Service
Commission.
Section 3 :
"Number of Appointments .– Action shall be taken to fill the
existing 114 vacancies in Class III of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service by recruitment on open stream.
Effective Date of the Appointments .– It is decided on the
orders of the Public Service Commission".
The closing date of application mentioned in this Gazette
notification shall be 23.04.2012 and the other provisions of the
Gazette notification shall remain unchanged.
On the order of the Public Service Commission.
P. B. ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
05th of April, 2012.
04–601

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
699
04. Applications.– Applicants should indicate their particulars
correctly in the application forms prepared in a typing sheet (A4
size). Incomplete applications will be rejected.
05. Selection for the Courses :
(1) Only the applicants with the required minimum
qualifications and who have paid examination fees
mentioned in para. 07 will be called for the written test.
There will be a practical test as well.
(2) The written test will be based on Mathematics, Basic
Technical Knowledge and General Knowledge. The
candidates who have scored the highest marks at the
written test will be summoned for the practical/interview
test under each course.
(3) Selection for each course will be made on the results of
the highest aggregate marks obtained both at the written
and practical test.
06. Medium of Examination .– Medium of examination will be
Sinhala/Tamil and English.
07. Examination Fees.– Non refundable Rs. 500 will be charged
for the examination. This amount can be paid by money order
written in favour of the General Manager of Railways indicating
the paying office as Maradana Post Office and the receipt of the
money order should be attached to the application. The applications
without money order will be rejected. Please note that inability to
appear for the examination or under any circumstances the
examination fees will not be refunded.
08. Examination Centres. – In respect of applicants who have
satisfied all the requirements, a written test will be held in Colombo
centre only.
09. Signing of Agreement.– All applicants selected for training
in the institution should enter into an agreement with the national
apprentices and Technical Training Institute and the Department
of Railways that follow the training course successfully during the
period relevant to the course.
10. The apprentices will be paid a monthly allowance during the
period of training by the apprentices and Technical Training
Authority.
11. The Department is not bound to give employment to the
apprentices after training.
12. The application forms prepared according to the specimen
form given below should be sent to the Director Sri Lanka - German
Railway Technical Training Centre, Kaldemulla Road, Rathmalana
by registered post, 'SLGRTT/2012' should be indicated on the top
left hand corner of the envelope.
13. Closing Date of Applications.– Applicants will be entertained
up to 30.06.2012. The applications received late will be rejected.
S. M. G. N. D
HARMASEKARA ,
Additional General Manager of
Railways (Administrative).
For General Manager of Railways.
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Sri Lanka Railways,
Colombo 10,
24th January, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT OF APPRENTICES TO SRI LANKA – GERMAN RAILWAY
TECHNICAL TRAINING CENTRE – 2012
For office use only
01. Full name (with surname) (In Sinhala and English) :–––––––.
02. Address (Sinhala) :–––––––.
(English) :–––––––.
03. District :–––––––.
04. Date of birth :–––––––.
05. Sex : Male/Female :–––––––.
06. Educational qualifications :  G . C. E. (O/L)
First sitting :–––––––. Index No. :–––––––.
Subjects Grade
1. ............................... ..............................
2. ............................... ..............................
3. ............................... ..............................
4. ............................... ..............................
5. ............................... ..............................
6. ............................... ..............................
7. ............................... ..............................
8. ............................... ..............................
9. ............................... ..............................
10. ............................... ..............................
Second sitting :–––––––. Index No. :–––––––.
Subjects Grade
1. ............................... ..............................
2. ............................... ..............................
3. ............................... ..............................
4. ............................... ..............................
5. ............................... ..............................
6. ............................... ..............................
7. ............................... ..............................
8. ............................... ..............................
9. ............................... ..............................
10. ............................... ..............................

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
700
07. Medium preferred by the candidate to appear for the exam :
––––––––––.
08. Indicate in order two courses you wish to follow in terms of
the notification :
1. .......................
2. .......................
09. Money order No. ..................... obtained after making a
payment of Rs. 500 to the post office is attached.
10. I certify that the fore giving particulars contained in this
application are true and accurate. Further I am aware that if
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or
incorrect, I am liable to disqualification if any discrepancy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if defected
after the appointment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––.
04–426
–––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS  –  SRI  LANKA
Final Certificate Examination for Ahadhiya/Al-Quran
Schools on Islamic Studies – 2011
(Equivalent to Daham Pasal Final Certificate Examination)
RULES and Regulations.– The above examination will be conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations during July, 2012.
Subjects and the syllabus for the examination are given in
Annexure I.
2. Centres for Examination.– Examination Centres will be set up
in towns indicated in Annexure II of this notification. Centres in
any town will be cancelled if sufficient number of candidates has
not requested that town. In case of such cancellation of any town
the candidates will be transferred to centres set up in the nearest
town.
3. Language Medium. – This examination will be conducted in
Tamil, Sinhala and English languages. However, a candidate should
appear for all the subjects in one and the same language.
4. Eligibility.– Every applicant should have fulfilled at least one
of the following requirements :–
4.1 Should be a student in Grade 10 or Grade 11 in an
Ahadhiya School registered with the Department of
Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs ; or
4.2 Should be a student who has completed the Senior Grade
Al-Quaran Madrasa Syllabus approved by the
Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs ;
or
4.3 Should be a student who has passed the subjects of
Islam and Arabic in the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
Note :
(i) Applications for this examination should be certified
by the Principal of the Ahadhiya School or by the
Principal of the Al-Qur'an Madrasa or by the Principal
of School to the effect that the candidate has fulfilled
the requirements mentioned under paragraph 4 above.
(ii) An applicant can submit application for this
examination only through the Principal of an Ahadhiya
School or the Principal of a Senior Al-Qur'an Madrasa
or School.
5. In the event of any registered Ahadhiya School, Senior Qur'an
Madrasa or a School does not receive the application forms and
instructions by post on time the Principal concerned should contact
the –
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla,
on or before 14th of May, 2012.
5.1 All applications should be prepared in duplicate. The
original should be forwarded to the Department of
Examinations while the duplicate should be kept filed
in the relevant Institution.
5.2 The closing date of applications will be 18th of May,
2012.
5.3 Applications should be clearly and legibly filled in.
Inaccurately or Illegibly filled applications and those
that are received after the closing date will be rejected.
5.4 Duly perfected applications should be sent under
registered cover to the -
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
(Applications will not be acknowledged.).
5.5 The name of the Examination "Ahadiya/Al Quran
Madrasa Final Certificate Exam – 2011" and the chosen
town for the exam should be clearly written on the top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
701
5.6 No document should be annexed to the application.
The Principals of the Institutions should certify to the
effect that the applicant holds the stipulated
qualifications.
5.7 The Examination fee for all four subjects is Rs. 150 and
the fee for one repeat subject is Rs. 50. No Examination
fee will be charged from those who sit for this
examination for the first time.
6.Mode of Payment. – Examination fees should be paid at any
post office and the receipt obtained be firmly attached on to the
application.
7. Admission Cards. – Commissioner General of Examinations
shall issue the Admission Cards through the relevant Heads of the
Institutions.
7.1 In the event a candidate fails to produce his/her
Admission Card to the supervisor on the first instance
of sitting the examination or attempting to sit the
Examination at a Centre other than the one allocated to
him/her by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
his/her candidature can be cancelled.
7.2 The specimen signature of the candidate should be
attested by the Head of the relevant institution or by
an officer in permanent Government service drawing a
salary not less than Rs. 240,360 p. a., or by an Islamic
Priest of Mosque.
7.3 If Admission Card is not received by at least 7 days
before the date of commencement of the examination
the Head of the institution concerned should notify
the Commissioner General of Examinations accordingly.
In all such instances, information should be provided
as indicated below :
(a) Name of Examination,
(b) Name of Ahadhiya School/Madrasa/School and the
computer number provided to the school,
(c) Name of candidate in full and Address,
(d) Examination Centre applied for,
(e) Post Office from which the application was posted,
(f) Registration number and date.
8. Personnel Identification. – Every applicant should prove his/
her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor on all instances he/
she appears for the examination by producing acceptable identity
documents.
9. Issue of the Examination Results and Confirmation of the
Result :
9.1 This examination consists of four papers. A candidate
who passes in all four papers in one and the same
sitting will be considered to have passed the
Examination.
9.2 However, if a candidate gets passed in 3 subjects and
fails to get through in the fourth subject in one and the
same sitting he/she will be allowed referral.
Such a candidate should get through the referred subject
within the subsequent two examinations in order to be
considered to have passed in this certificate examination.
(This will be effective from 2011 Examination).
Referred candidates should apply and sit only for the
referred subject.
9.3 Each of the four question papers carries 100 marks and
grades will be awarded as shown below :–
Range of marks Grade Symbol
0 – 34 Fail F
35- 54 Ordinary pass S
55 – 69 Credit pass C
70 – 100 Distinction pass D
Release of the Results.– Details of examination results
will be posted to the relevant Heads of Institutions.
10. Certificates.– Action will be taken to issue a certificate to
every candidate passing the examination.
11. Re-scrutiny of Answer - scripts .– Opportunity will be
provided for the re-scrutiny of answer-scripts if requested within
30 days from the date of issue of examination resutls. Such request
should be made through the respective Heads of Institutions, using
the specimen form issued by this Department for this purpose. A
specified fee must be paid.
Such fee will be refunded only in instances where any alteration
is made to the examination results. Applicants or their
representatives will not be granted permission to examine the answer
scripts for any reason what-so-ever.
12. All applicants are bound to act in accordance with the above
conditions. Decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations
on any matter that is not dealt with in this notification will be the
final.
W. M. N. J. P
USHPAKUMARA,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
29th of March, 2012.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
702
ANNEXURE 1
Subjects and the prescribed Syllabus for the Examination :
There will be four question papers, of three hour duration each.
Structure of the question papers and marks allocation for the
questions will be according to the gazette notification published on
Gazette No. 1,358 of 10th September, 2004.
F
IRST PAPER
1.Aqeedha, Sharee'ah (Principles and Fundamentals in Islam) and
Arabic Language.
1.1 Aqeedha - General understandings (Al IIahiyath,
Annubuwath, Arroohaniyyath and Assam'iyyath)
1.2 Sections of Aqeedha
* Aqeeda of Ahlussunnah Wal Jama'ath
* Few other Aqeeda sections such as : Jabariya, Kadariyya,
Murjiya, Mu'tazila and Shee'ah
1.3 Tawheedh and Shirk
* Iman and Kufr
* Riddath, Nifak
* History of relevation and compilation of the Qur'an
* Use of Al-Qur'an as a source of Law
* Sunna and history of its collection
* Utilization of Sunna as source of Law
* History of Hadees and the contribution of Muhaddis
* Details relating to Ijthihad
* Ijma as a secondary source
* Kiyas as a secondary source
* History of Fikhu and its Imams.
1.4 Arabic Language :
* Writing with proper shapes of Alphabets
* Writing of small Sentences
* Writing of Arabic words having relation to the subject of
Islam
* Writing of specific Qur'an suras, verses and Hathees.
S
ECOND  PAPER
2. Al-Fiqhul Islami (Islamic Law)
2.1 Details Relating to Ibadath
* Kinds of Ibathath
* Thaharath
2.2 Najees and its categories :
* Methods of cleaning Najees
* Water and its categories
* Wulu, Thayammam and - Procedures existing relating to
bathing
2.3 Zakath :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations
* Collection and distribution
* Minimizing poverty through Zakath and distribution of
 Wealth
2.4 Assawm (Fasting) :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations and Usefulness
2.5 Hajj :
x Significance
x Rules and Regulations
x Usefulness
2.6 x Hajj - Method of Performance
x Farlu, Wajibu, Sunnath
x Hajj performed in addition to Farlu Hajj
2.7 Attention and procedures in Islam relating to food Dressing
and Dwellings.
2.8 Understanding of Jihadh.
2.9 Kurbani and methods of slaughter
2.10 Oaths and V ows.
2.11 Details relating to Muamalath :
x Dignity of earning
x Main transaction (Trading)
x Other transactions ( Eg. Borrowing, Rent)
x  Wakfu, Wasiyiyath, Warasath (Public Property,
  Testamentary Property, Inhertited Property)
2.12 Position of man and woman in Islam :
x Marriage Laws in Islam and their uses
x Family life in Islam
x Husband and wife
x Rights and duties of parents and Children
x Talaq and Idhdha
2.13 Jinayath :
x Hudood, Kisas and Ta'zeer
T
HIRD  PAPER
3. Seera and Tarigh
3.1 Socio-Religious position in Arabian Society in the period
before Islam.
3.1.1 Prophet Mohamed (Sal) :
x Life before the Nubuwwath
* Family Lineage
* Youthhood
* Noble characteristies
* Marriage
x Life between Nubuwwath and Hijrath
* Nubuwwath
* Propaganda of Islam and its outcomes
* Hijrath

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
703
x Madina Life
* Socio-Political activities
* Defensive wars and Peace Agreements
* Completion of Islam
x Position of Sahabas and their contribution towards
Islam
x History and Political contribution of Kulafa
Urrashidoon
x Period of rule by Umaiya and Abbasiya
x History of Baitul Mukaddas
x History and contributions of Sri Lankan Muslims
x Contribution of Muslims to Scientific Knowledge
x History relating to the following personalities :–
* Imam Buhari (Rah)
* Imam Shafi (Rah)
* Imam Gassali (Rah)
* Imam Abdul Cader Jeelani (Rah)
* Imam Saduli (Rah)
FOURTH PAPER
4. Aklaq (Islamic Values)
4.1 View point of Islam on Aklaq
* Understanding Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Iman and Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Aqhlaq and Ibadath
* Purity of mind (Ikhlas)
4.2 Taqwa
* Wara'u and Suhud
* Murakaba, Muhasafa
* Shawq
4.3 Charity
* Dedication
* Gratitude
* Patience, Tolerance, accomodating, pardoning
* Politeness
* Appreciation of time
* Safeguarding organs in the body : mouth, eye, ear and sex
organs
* Respecting others
* Justice and honesty
* Important moral values visible among youth
* Harmonious living with people of other faiths
4.4 Islamic Jurisprudence
ANNEXURE II
Name of towns and their town Numbers where Examination
Centres will be Established :
Town Town District
No. No.
Colombo District 01
Colombo (Central) 01
Bambalapitiya 02
Gampaha District 02
Thihariya 03
Mabola 04
Malwana 05
Negombo 06
Kal-Eliya 07
Kalutara District 03
Panadura 08
Kalutara 09
Aluthgama 10
Galle District 04
Galle 11
Matara District 05
Weligama 12
Matara 13
Tangalle District 06
Hambantota 14
Kegalle District 07
Mawanella 15
Warakapola 16
Kannattota 17
Kurunegala District 08
Kuliyapitiya 18
Kurunegala 19
Melsiripura 20
Polgahawela 21
Kekunagolla 22
Puttalam District 09
Nuraichcholai 23
Puttalam 24
Chilaw 25
Anuradhapura District 10
Anuradhapura 26
Kekirawa 27
Galenbindunuwewa 28
Polonnaruwa District 11
Kaduruwela 29
Matale District 12
Matale 30

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
704
Kandy District 13
Kandy 31
Nawalapitiya 32
Deltota 33
Gelioya 34
Nuwara Eliya District 14
Nuwara Eliya 35
Ratnapura District 15
Eheliyagoda 36
Balangoda 37
Badulla District 16
Badulla 38
Welimada 39
Monaragala District 17
Bibila 40
Ampara District 18
Akkaraipattu 41
Pottuvil 42
Kalmunai 43
Sammanthurai 44
Irakkamam 45
Nintavur 46
Oluvil 47
Batticaloa District 19
Kattankudy 48
Eravur 49
V alachchenai 50
Trincomalee District 20
Mutur 51
Kinniya 52
Trincomalee 53
Vavuniya District 21
Vavuniya 54
Mannar District 22
Mannar 55
Mullaitivue District 23
Mullaitivu 56
Kilinochchi District 24
Kilinochchi 57
Jaffna District 25
Jaffna 58
04-546
Town Town District
No. No.
FIRST  AND  SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR
EXAMINATIONS  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  III  OF
THE  SRI  LANKA  PLANNING  SERVICE  - 2012
FIRST and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations for officers in Class
III of the Sri Lanka Planning Service will be held in  June 2012  in
Colombo  by the Commissioner General of Examinations. The
closing date of applications for the Examination will be 18.05.2012.
The Examination will be conducted in Sinhalese, Tamil and English
media and no candidate will be permitted to change the medium
applied for later.
02. A specimen application form to be used in applying for the
this examination is appended at the end of this notification. All
applicants are advised to prepare their applications as per specimen
given. Application should be prepared only in A4 size paper and
item 01 to 04 (ii) should be on page 1 and the rest on page 2. The
form should be completed by the applicant in his / her own hand
writing. Further, Name of the Examination given at the top should
be written in English in addition to Sinhala, in Sinhala applications
and in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications. Applications which
do not comply with the specimen application form and those
received after the closing date of applications and incomplete
applications will be rejected without prior notice. Those who wish
to sit for both First and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations should
send two separate applications specifying the examinations.
Particulars given in the top of the specimen application form and
item 7 (i) or (ii) as the case may be should be mentioned accurately.
Further, Two receipts obtained by making payments for two (02)
examinations should be affixed to both application forms separately.
03. All applications should be sent through the Head of the
Respective Department (Ex:- through Divisional Secretary in case
of a Divisional Secretariat) by registered post to reach the
"Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch, Department of Examinations, Palawatta,
Battarramulla", to reach him on or before 18.05.2012. The name of
the examination should be written on the top left corner of the
envelop containing the application. It is advisable to keep a photo
copy of the receipt with the applicant. Examination will be
conducted in Sinhalese, Tamil and English media and no candidate
will be permitted to change the language medium applied for. Newly
recruited officers for the purpose of official Language policy may
prepare their applications in the official language or in Tamil or
English in accordance with the language medium they were recruited.
04. An Admission card together with a copy of the time table of
the examination will be issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations to all applicants whose applications have been
accepted. Immediately after admission cards are dispatched to the
respective candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published
by the Department of  Examinations, Sri Lanka. If any candidate
does not receive his / her Admission Card and time table 2 or 3 days
before the examination, he/ she should notify this in writing
immediately to the Department of Examinations as indicated below.
It would be useful if you could send a certified photo copy of the
application retained by you together with the receipt for the
payment of cash, registration receipt and your letter of request

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
705
with the fax number, if outside Colombo, in order to send your
Admission Card.
(i) Name of Examination :
(ii) Full name of the applicant :
(iii) Complete Address :
(iv) Post office at which the application  was posted,
Registered No. and Date :
05.   Identity.– Candidates should prove their identity to the
supervisor of the examination every time they appear for a subject
in the Examination Hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents only will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
for Registration of Persons,
(ii) A V alid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves
the right to cancel or reject the candidature of the
candidate who fails to produce any of the documents
mentioned above.
06. Examination Fees.– Candidates who sit this examination
will be required to pay examination fees on the basis set out below.
      Examination Fees.
(a) First sitting- No fee will be charged
(b) Thereafter for the whole examination for each  Rs.400 0
subsequent sitting
(c) Per subject  Rs.150 0
The relevant examination fee could be paid to the credit of
Revenue Head of the Commissioner General of Examinations No.
2003-02-13 at any Divisional Secretariat and the receipt obtained
should be securely affixed to the application form at the allotted
place so that it may not get detached. Retaining a copy of the
receipt would be useful. Those who apply for both examinations
should affix two receipts obtained by making payments for both
examinations separately.
07.This examinations is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and all candidates will be required to abide by the
rules and regulations laid down by him in connection with this
examination. Rules and regulations published in Part 1 (IIA) of this
Gazette for applicants for examinations are applicable to this
examination. On the first day of the examination, admission card
with the applicants authenticated signature should be handed over
to the supervisor of the examination.
08. Duty leave should be granted by the Head of Department to
applicants who are eligible to sit for the Examination and to whom
admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations to enable them to sit for the examination. Admission
cards will be issued to all the applicants who have submitted
applications and issuing an admission card to an applicant should
not be considered by him/her as a qualification to sit for the
examination.
09. Any matters not covered by these regulations will be dealt
with the discretion of the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages the notice
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
11. Syllabuses related to the first and second efficiency bar
examinations are given below.
Syllabus of the first efficiency bar examination for
officers in grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning
Service
1. The first efficiency bar examination will consist of the
following subjects.
(a) Planning concepts and
Methodology, planning Institutions
- 100 marks (Sub. No. 01)
(b) Economic Analysis and statistics
- 100 marks (Sub. No. 02)
(c) Project planning ,implementation,
review and evaluation - 100 marks (Sub. No. 03)
(d) Establishment and Government
Financial Regulations - 100 marks (Sub. No. 04)
(e) English Language - 100 m arks (Sub. No. 05)
2. An officer can sit all papers in one attempt or separately in
several attempts.
3. Each paper will be of 03 hours duration.
4. All the Questions of a  paper should be answered.
5. An applicant should obtain 40% or more marks for a pass in
each paper.
SCHEME OF EXAMINATION
Question paper 01.–  Planning concepts and the methodology,
planning institutions, finance and administration.
(i) National Goals and Priorities, and  policy framework and
programmes for their achievement.
(ii) Methodology for national planning, major problem areas
in planning, participation of the public, mobilizations of
resources etc.
(iii) Nature and source of data for national planning and
collection of data, presentation and analyses of
interpretation, field supervision and investigations,
demographic concepts, economic perspective and policy
analysis.
Question paper 02.- Economic analysis and statistics
(i) Principles of economics with special emphasis on theories
of production and distribution.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
706
(ii) Finance, banking systems, international monetary systems
and trade.
(iii) Analysis of  fiscal, monetary, trade and tariff policies.
(iv) Economic structure of Sri Lanka.
(v) Review of the economy.
(vi) Assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower
and other resources including foreign aid and their
utilization.
(vii) Economics, scientific and social incidents.
(viii) Economic analysis and basic statistical concepts and
methods used in planning.
(ix) Principles of benefit / cost analysis.
Question paper 03  . –  Project planning, implementation,
monitoring and follow up action
(i) Planning, identification and defining projects and
formulation of projects, selection of policies, theories and
location estimation of technology, costs and benefits,
technical, financial and economic analysis.
(ii) Implementation and supervision of projects, proper and
timely implementation of  project programmes, preparation
of detailed operational plans and  implementation
schedules, monitoring and coordination of progress, control
follow up action.
(iii) Evaluation of projects, assessment of effectiveness of
projects and programmes analysis of benefits in relation
to costs.
Question paper 04.-  Establishment regulations and government
financial systems
(i) Government Financial Regulations V olume 1
(Excluding Chapter X )
(ii) Establishments  Code.– Chapters vii, ix, xi, xii, xv, xxiii,
xxv, xxvi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii, xlvii,
xlviii.
Chapters I to VII in V olume I of Procedural Rules of the Public
Service Commission.
(iii) Financial Control of Sri Lanka .– Salutatory provisions
related to public management, control of the Parliament
over public finance, The consolidated fund and its function,
objective of appropriation and appropriation methods.
Public revenue, powers and functions of the Minister of
Finance, powers and functions of the treasury, warrants
and impress authority, Auditor General and his powers
and functions, public accounts committee (Public
expenditure committee), public enterprises committe.
(iv) Accounting officers, chief accounting officers and
appointing accounting officers of public revenue, their
powers and functions.
(v) Planning and management of public expenditure,
identification of objectives and functions of organizations,
preparation of annual estimates and expenditure and taking
final decisions, effecting changes in the approved estimates
of expenditure, implementation of virement procedure,
management of cadres in the public sector, supplementary
estimates.
(vi) Government procurement procedure. – Procurement of
goods, services and work, composition, appointment,
powers and functions of procurement committee and
technical evaluation committee, bids evaluation procedure,
management of projects implemented on foreign aids.
Question paper 05.– English Language
A written test on English Language will be held in order to
measure the English language skills of the applicants related
to planning, development, organizing and management
subjects.
Syllabus of the second efficiency bar examination for
Grade III officers of the Sri Lanka Planning Service
1. The second efficiency bar examination will consist of the subjects
mentioned below.
(a) Techniques of development planning
- Marks 100  (Subject No. 06)
(b) Basic macro economics  - Marks 100  (Subject No. 07)
(c) Current international economic and political crises and their
impact on the Sri Lankan Economy
- Marks 100  (Subject No. 06)
2. Officers are allowed to sit for all the subjects in one attempt or
in several separate attempts.
3. Duration for each question paper is 03 hours.
4. Answering all the questions of a question paper is a must.
5. Applicants should obtain 40%  of marks for each paper to
obtain a pass grade.
S
CHEME OF EXAMINATION
(i)  Techniques of development planning
(a) SWOT analysis
(b) Problem tree
(c) Logical frame analysis
(d) Cost – benefit analysis
(e) Payback methodology
(f) Net current value
(g) Internal rate of return
(h) Usage of shadow prices
(ii)  Fundamentals of Macro Economics
(a) National Accounts
(b) Rate of Economic Growth
(c) Equilibrium level of National Income
(d) Multiplier
(e) Inflation
(f) Interest Rate

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
707
(g) An Introduction to the public financial policies
(h) An Introduction to fiscal policies
(i) Trade Circles
(iii)  Current international economic and political crisis and
their impact on the Sri Lankan economy. (Applicants
will have to answer questions based on topics in the
context of the contemporary world economic conditions
as the case may be)
P. B. J
AYASUNDERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo  01,
20
th April  2012.
FORM OF APPLICATION
First and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers
in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning Service – 2012
(For office use)
Medium of Examination  :
(write the number in this cage)
Sinhalese - 2 (Medium applied
Tamil - 3 be allowed to
English - 4 subsequently)
* The Efficiency Bar Examination Applied :
      First - 1         (write the number in the cage given)
      Second - 2
(Refer the Para 2 of the Gazette. Applications should be separately
submitted for both examinations.)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with Initials  at the  End  :––––––––––.
(In English Block letters e.g. SILV A . B . A.)
1.2    Full Name :––––––––––.
(Sinhala / Tamil)
 1.3 National Identity Card No. :
02. Official Address :––––––––––.
(In English Block letters)
2.1    Official Address :––––––––––.
(Sinhala / Tamil)
  2.2    Address to which the Admission Cards should be sent
:––––––––––.
(In English Block letters)
03. Female -: 1 Male  -: 0   (Specify in the cage given)
3.1 Sex  :  Female :                        Male :
3.2     Date of Birth -:
Year :                          Month :                Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of applications -:
Years :                       Months :              Days :
04. Subjects offered under the Para 10 of the Gazette (only  4 (I) or
4 (II) relevant to the Efficiency Bar Examination Applied should
be completed in one application form)
4(I) First Efficiency Bar  4(II)  Second Efficiency Bar
Subject Subject No. Subject Subject No.
……………….... ………………....
……………….... ………………....
……………….... ………………....
……………….... ………………....
05. Date of Appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning
Service  :––––––––––.
(Indicate the date of assumption of duties)
6. Are you an Old Entrant / New Entrant for the purposes of
Official Language Policy  :––––––––––.
7. Name of the Department   :––––––––––.
08. Whether you are sitting for the examination for the first time  :–
–––––––––.
09.   If not examination fees paid:
(Paste the receipt securely; keeping a copy of the receipt
would be useful)
10. I declare that the foregoing particulars are true and correct and
that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language
medium indicated above. I agree to abide by the decisions
taken by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding
the examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– The applicant must sign before his/her Head of the
Department, or the officer authorized to sign on his / her behalf or
his / her Provincial Head.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
708
Attestation of Signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………………………
.who is an officer working in my office and is known to me
personally placed his/her signature before me on …………………
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
 I certify that –
(i) The foregoing particulars were checked by me and found
correct and;
(ii) The applicant is eligible to sit for this examination
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official frank should be placed)
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
04–420
–––––––––––––––––
CENSUS  AND  STATISTICS  DEPARTMENT – 2012
The Open Competitive Examination for Recruiting
Grade – II of the Statistical Officer
APPLICATIONS are called for the examination for the examination
for recruitment of Statistics Officer Grade – II to the Department
of Census and Statistics. The applications prepared in accordance
with the specimen application appearing at the end of this
notification shall be sent under the registered post to reach on or
before the following date to “Commissioner General of Examination”
Organizational and overseas, Examination unit, Sri Lanka
Examinations Department, Pelawatta, Battaramulla”. The
examination name, “Open competitive examination for the
recruitment of Statistical Officer Grade – II” should be written on
the top left hand corner of the envelope. The name of the examination
shall be written both in Sinhala and English in Sinhala applications
and in Tamil and English in Tamil applications.
1. The deadline for submission of applications is 18.05.2012.
The examination is scheduled to be held in month of July, 2012.
Note.– Complaints regarding the misplacing of applications
or attached documents through post shall not be
considered. The disadvantages caused by the delaying of
sending the applications until the closing date shall be
borne by the candidates themselves.
2. Service conditions. – The post is permanent and pensionable
and contribution to the W & OP fund.
3. Age limit.– Between 21-35 years.
4. Salary scale.– Rs. 16,720 - 10 x 320 - 11 x 365 - 15 x 450 - Rs.
30,685. Grade II (MN5-2006-A).
5. Educational qualifications .– A degree from a University
accepted by the University Grant Commission containing at least
one of the following subjects such as statistics, mathematics,
Economics, Computer Science, Information Technology,
Community Science, Geography, Social Science.
6. Physical qualification :
(i) Every candidate shall be physically fit in all aspects for
serving in any part of the country.
(ii) Shall have an adequate Physical eligibility for discharging
the duties assigned to the post.
7. Other requirements  :-
(i) Shall be a Sri Lanka Citizen.
(ii) The applicants shall bear an excellent morale character.
8. The method of recruiting. – Applications shall be called by
publishing in the Government Gazette or advertising in public news
papers and a written test shall be held for those qualified. Based on
the sequence of the merits of the marks and the number of vacancies
recruitment shall be made to the Grade II Statistics Officer on the
recommendations of an interview board. Marks shall not be allocated
for the interview.
(The syllabus of the Open Competitive Examination for the
recruitment for the statistics officer Grade II is appearing under
No. 09.1)
9. Written competitive examination.– Those who secure highest
marks for the following written question papers will be called for a
structured interview, To get qualified from the written examination,
at least forty percent of marks should be scored per subject.
Appointments shall be made on the basis of written examination
and the interview.
Subject of the examination :–
(i) Intelligence Test
(ii) General knowledge.
9.1 The syllabus of the Open Competitive Examination for
recruitment for Grade II statistics officer :–
(i) This examination is conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examination,
(ii) Examination system :-
* The examination is being conducted in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages,

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
709
* A candidate appearing for the examination shall
answer all question papers in one and the same
language.
Syllabus :-
(i) Intelligence test.– Time 1 hour, 100 marks
A paper aimed at judging the logical strength of the
applicants. All the questions shall be answered.
(ii) General knowledge .– Time 1 hour, 100 marks
A paper aimed for evaluating the knowledge of current
affairs locally and internationally important. This
paper consists of multiple choice and short answers.
9.2 General Conditions :–
(i) This competitive examination is conducted only in
Sinhala, Tamil and English languages. Both question
papers shall be answered in one language. It is not
allowed to change the applied medium of language later.
The applicants are subject to the rules and regulations
of the Commissioner General of Examination with
regarding conducting of the examination. The
candidates are liable for punishment in case of any
breach of these rules and regulations being imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examination.
(ii) The examination fee is Rs. 500. The examination fee
shall be paid to any of the post offices in the country
to the Revenue Head number 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt
being issued in the applicants name shall be pasted on
the particular place in the application form firmly. It is
useful to keep a Photo copy of same in possession.
(iii) The examination fees shall not be refunded in any case.
(iv) The examination shall be held only in Colombo. The
date of the examination shall be notified later.
(v) Admissions shall be issued to all applicants on the
presumption that all those applied  have necessary
qualifications as per the Gazette notice.
Note .- Candidates are not allowed to enter the
examination hall without the admission paper.
Candidates should submit a Attested admission to
the invigilator on the date of examination.
The Issue of an admission to a candidate does not
mean that particular candidate has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit for the examination.
(vi) The application shall be prepared on A4 paper of 22-
29 cm. The heading 1 - 6 shall be within page No. one,
7 - 12 shall be within page 02 one other heading shall
continue in 3rd and 4th pages in the application form.
The relevant particulars are to be entered of the
applicants own handwriting. The applications not in
the conformity with the specimen application or with
the incomplete information shall be rejected without
any notice and it will be useful to keep a copy of the
relevant application in  possession.
The applicants are expected to compare the completed
application with the specimen application appearing
in the examination notification, as if not so the
application may be rejected. Please prepare the
application according to the specimen application form
attached here with.
(vii) The receipt of the application shall not be
acknowledged and as soon as the admissions are issued
it shall be advertised in the newspapers.
(viii) Incomplete applications shall be rejected without any
notification.
(ix)The authority for the postponement or the cancellation
of the examination is in the hands of the Head of the
Department.
(x) The issuing of admissions shall be advertised in news
papers immediately afterwards by the Department of
Examinations of Sri Lanka. If admissions have not
received after even 2 to 3 days since the advertised
date, the candidates shall inform that to the Department
of Examinations of Sri Lanka as instructed in the
notification. It is more fruitful to inform the
Examination Department with the copies of your
application and attested copy of the receipt issued for
the payment of examination fee, registrations receipt,
your request letter containing a fax number if the address
outstation of the Colombo district.
10.  Service condition .– Those officers who have joined the
service through a language medium. Which has  not considered as a
state language shall secure the official language.proficiency during
the probation period. With regard to the other state language, the
proficiency shall secure for  the first segment, according to the
circular No. 7/2007 of 28.05.2007.
11.  The identity of the candidate.– Every candidate shall prove
his/her identity to the satisfaction of the invigilator in the
examination hall. Either of following documents will be accepted.
(i) National Identity card issued by the department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) Valid passport.
12.  The applicants being selected at the written test shall have
following documents ready for submission at the interview :-
(i) Birth certificate
(ii) Educational certificates including degree.
(iii) Two character certificates (one shall be from a lecturer
or a professor of a university)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
710
(iv) Certificates of professional qualifications (If
any).
(v) Certificates of highest examinations passed in Sinhala1
Tamil or English medium.
Important :
(a) No document or a copy shall be attached to the
application.
(b) The applications of candidate these who shall not be
able to submit the necessary documents when asked
will not be considered.
13. The officers attached to government service/Provincial State
Service/ Corporations shall forward application through their head
of Departments/Institutes. It's Compulsory for every candidate to
have their signatures certified before sitting for the examination A
candidate appearing for the examination from an institute shall get
his signature certified by the head of the institute. Other candidates
shall get their signatures certified by a head of a government school/
retired head, Grama Niladhari in the division, Justice of Peace,
Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-law authorized officer of the
three forces, a government or local government permanent staff
grade officer receiving annual combined salary of Rs. 240,360 or
more, or chief incumbent of a Buddhist temple or a Nayaka Thera
or a other religious dignitary in charge of a religious place holding a
significant title.
14. Applications and other attached documents shall not be sent
to any other institute department or to the name of any other
officer except to the Commissioner General of the department of
Examinations.
15. Your attention is invited to the general conditions concerning
the appointments to the state service vacancies appearing at the
beginning of the Para (II) of the part 01 of this Gazette notification.
(except the contents in Para 09 in the General Conditions)
Mrs. D. B. P. S
URANJANA VIDY ARATNA,
Director General,
Department of Census and Statistics.
Dated on 27th March, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
THE OPEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE
POST OF STATISTICAL OFFICER – GRADE II OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
CENSUS AND STA TISTICS
Index No. :
(For office use only)
The medium expected in appear for the examination
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
Write the relevant number in the cage
01. 1.1 The name with the initials at the end :––––––––.
(In English capital letters) Eg.– SUNIL A. B.
1.2 Full name :––––––––.
(In Egnlish capital letters)
1.3 Full name :––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Permanent address :––––––––.
2.1 :––––––––. (In English capital letters)
2.2 Address to which the admission to be sent :––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.3 Telephone No. :
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male    - 0
(Write down the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year :                         Month :                Date :
04. National Identity No. :
05. Nationality (Put 3 in the relevant cage) :
Sinhalese Indian Tamil
Sri Lankan Tamil Malay
Muslim Other
06. Residential District :––––––––.
Divisional Secretarial Division :––––––––.
07. Fee paid (At if is advisable if a copy of the receipt is kept with
the applicant) :
Date of payment :––––––––.
Amount :––––––––.
Post office :––––––––.
Receipt No. :––––––––.
(The receipt is to be pasted here from an edge firmly)
08. The highest pass gained for each language subject (Please
mention the name of the Examination) :
Sinhala :––––––––.
Tamil :––––––––.
English :––––––––.
09. Educational qualification :
Details of the degree :
Degree Institute Pass Subjects V alidity
date

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
711
Other educational qualifications :
Course Institute Details of subjects
10. Other qualifications :––––––––.
11. Present occupation and the previous occupations :
Institute Designation From-to Salary
(Monthly)
12. Are you a suspect of a criminal case ? If so give the details :
––––––––.
I do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any of these
particulars have been found false or incorrect prior to the selection,
renders me a disqualified and if found subsequently to the
appointment I will be dismissed without any compensation. Also I
declare hereby that I am subjected to the rules and regulations being
formulated by the Commissioner General of Examinations in the
holding of the acumination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :––––––––.
Attestation of the signature of the applicant
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................ who is forwarding
this application is personally known to me and that the receipt has
been pasted and put his/her signature before me.
–––––––––––––,
The signature of the
Officer attesting the Signature.
Name :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Address :––––––––.
Date :––––––––.
When the applicant is an employee of a Government
Department/institute, the application shall be forwarded through
the head of the department or the institute along with the above
certificate.
The certificate of the head of the Department
Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................works in this department as a
permanent/temporary/casual employee. I hereby certify that he/
she has not been subject to any disciplinary punishment (except
for a warning) and the information furnished in this application are
correct. Also I certified that his/her work and behavior are
satisfactory and has fulfilled the qualifications as per the Gazette
notification to sit for this examination and the relevant examination
fee has been paid and the receipt is attached.
If selected he/she can be/can't be released from the service.
––––––––––––,
The signature of the
Head of the Department/Institution.
Name :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Address :––––––––.
Date :––––––––.
04–423
–––––––––––––––
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
PROMOTION  OF  MINOR  EMPLOYEES  OF  THE
PUBLIC  SERVICE  TO  CLASS  III  OF  THE  PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE - 2012
IT is hereby notified that a limited competitive examination for
promotion of minor employees of the Public Service to class III of
the Public Management Assistants' Service will be held by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations in the month of -August
2012.
2.0 This examination will be held in the following towns for the
minor employees attached to the central government service. The
list of towns and the respective town numbers are furnished below.
The Commissioner - General of Examinations may, at his discretion,
cancel any of the examination centers owing to the insufficient
number of candidates or another reason and decide an alternative
center, taking the candidates' second preference into consideration.
Town  Town Town  Town
No. No.
Colombo
01 Trincomalee 14
Gampaha 02 Batticaloa 15
Kalutara 03 Ampara 16
Matale 04 Puttalam 17
Kandy 05 Kurunegala 18
Nuwara Eliya 06 Anuradhapura 19
Galle 07 Polonnaruwa 20
Matara 08 Badulla 21
Hambanthota 09 Monaragala 22
Jaffna 10 Kegalle 23
Mannar 11 Ratnapura 24
Mulativu 12 Kilinochchi 25
Vavuniya 13

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
712
3.0 (i) This examination will be held by the Commissioner -
General of Examinations and the candidates shall be
bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by him
for the conduct of the examination.
(ii) Rules and regulations for candidates are provided
separately in the Gazette notification. Candidates are
liable to any punishment imposed by him for breech of
these rules.
4.0 Medium in which candidates should sit the examination. –
This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil & English languages.
Candidates may sit this examination in only one language medium
of their preference. Candidates will not be allowed to change the
language medium once it is selected.
5.0 Salary.– As per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/
2006(iv) dated 24.08.2007, the monthly salary scale applicable to
Classes III, II and I of the Public Management Assistants' Service is
Rs. 13,990 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170, 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 - Rs. 23,230. To
obtain above Rs. 15,440 promoting to Class II is required and
promotion to Class I is necessary to obtain above Rs. 17,310.
Note.– They will be granted incremental credit subject to the
incremental credit rules prevailing at the time of receiving
appointment.
6.0 Conditions of Service :–
(i) Candidates who are successful in this examination will
be appointed on an acting basis for one year from the
date of the appointment. Their posts will be permanent
and pensionable. Confirmation in the service will be
done after the requirements prescribed in the service
minute of the Public Management Assistants' Service
are fulfilled.
(ii) Candidates who receive appointments on the results of
the examination will be liable to transfer and may be
posted to any station in Sri Lanka.
(iii) Proficiency of the second official language should be
achieved within 05 years from the date of appointment
in terms of the provisions of Public Administration
Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
7.0 Selections for Appointments.– Only the minor employees in
Central Government Service will be admitted for the competitive
examination to compete for vacancies in the Central Government.
After selecting candidates who secure 40% or more marks for each
paper of the examination, final selections will be made on merit
basis depending on the aggregate of their marks.
8.0 Eligibility.– To be eligible to compete in this examination,
every applicant should :
(i) be a minor employee in the Central Government Service
holding a permanent post with a salary scale that comes
under salary codes PL-1-2006A, PL-2-2006A and
PL-3-2006A in terms of Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006 (iv) dated 24-08-2007 and should have
been confirmed in the appointments (should be a public
servant falling under a definition in Chapter I of the
Establishment Code).
(ii) have completed a continuous, active and a satisfactory
service period of 05 years immediately prior to
2012.05.21 and the Head of Department should have
certified that.
(iii) Candidates who have being confirmed in the service
after 26-11-2001 should have passed the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination
in six subjects (06) including Language/ Literature and
Arithmetic / Pure Mathematics / Elementary
Mathematics / Commercial Arithmetic.
Note:-
(1) Period of service served prior to receiving a permanent
appointment or any period of service or training that
are prescribed as a condition to be fulfilled prior to
granting permanency in the post, will not be taken into
account when calculating the qualifying 05 years period
mentioned in (ii) above. Periods of temporary/casual
service prior to receiving permanency, too, will not be
taken into account when calculating the qualifying 05
year period mentioned in (ii) above.
(2) All drivers of motor vehicles in Public Service, will be
allowed to sit for this examination not withstanding
their salary scale provided that they possess other
prescribed qualifications.
(3) The five-year satisfactory service period referred to in
section (ii) above will be determined on the following
basis. Candidates who have fulfilled the following
requirements will be considered as having a satisfactory
service for the purpose of this examination.
(a) he/she should have earned all the increments during
the five years immediately prior to 2012.05.21
(b) he/she should not have suffered any disciplinary
punishment during the five year period prior to
2012.05.21
(4) The Head of Department should be prepared to release
the officer if he/she is selected for an appointment.
(5) Employees who are engaged in semi-technical work,
who have been trained on a certain task or who have
been given special training by the government will not
be eligible to sit this examination. For example,
employees in engineering and industrial grades and
Public Health Officers in the Department of Health
will not be eligible to sit for this examination. In case
there are any doubts as to whether a particular

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
713
employee is eligible or not, the applicant should consult
his department, which, in turn, will consult the
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
When consulting the Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs regarding the eligibility of any
employee to sit this examination, the Department
concerned should submit a comprehensive description
of the job held by the employee with the salary scale
and state whether the applicant had been given any
training to equip himself to hold the job and the nature
and duration of such training, if any.
(6) Temporary and casual employees in public service,
employees of Boards, Corporations and similar bodies
are not eligible to compete in this examination.
(7) Any other employee in Postal Department, except the
minor employees in the Combined Services are not
eligible to appear for this examination.
(8) The candidates, before forwarding their applications,
should satisfy themselves that they have fulfilled all
the requirements prescribed herein. Candidates who
present themselves for the examination without
fulfilling the prescribed requirements will be
disqualified, even if they attain a required standard of
marks in the examination.
9.0 Applications :-
(i) A specimen form of application for admission to this
examination is appended to this notification. Application
forms should be prepared by the candidates using both
sides of papers in such a manner that Nos. 1.0 to 4.0
appear
 on the first page and remaining numbers on 2 nd
page. The applications sjould be filled in correctly and
legibly by candidate's own handwriting. Applications
which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance
with the specimen form will be rejected without any
notice. Applications of those who haven't paid
examination fee on or before due date will also be rejected.
It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
completed application form. It is the responsibility of
the candidate to make sure that the application form
perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen
given in the examination notice as otherwise the
application may be rejected.
(ii) Examination Fees. - The fee for this examination is
Rs. 400. This is payable at any District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat under revenue head 
2003-02-13 of
the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt
obtained thus should be affixed firmly in the relevant
cage on the application form (a photo copy of the receipt
should be kept with the applicant for future use). The
fee will not be refunded under any circumstance while
money orders and stamps will not be accepted in respect
of the fee.
(iii) The application form must be completed correctly and
legibly in the candidates own handwriting and sent by
registered post to reach the Commissioner General of
Examinations Organization and Foreign Examination
Branch, Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 21.05.2012
through the Heads of Departments in which the
candidates are serving.
(iv) The application should be prepared only as per the
specimen appended to this and a candidate should not
send more than one application form. It is further
informed that photocopies or advanced copies should
not be sent. The title of the examination should be
indicated in the specimen in English language as well, on
both Sinha1a and Tamil application forms.
10.0  Heads of Departments are required to furnish a certificate
as indicated at the end of the application form. Any application
received after the due date will be rejected. The name of the
examination should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the form. If any candidate fails to comply
with this procedure, his/her application is liable to be rejected.
Candidates are requested to forward their applications to the Heads
of their Departments well in advance enabling them to forward the
applications to the Commissioner General of Examinations on or
before 21.05.2012.
11.0  The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue a
copy of the examination time table along with the admission card to
all candidates whose applications have been received. Concurrent
to this, an advertisement will be published in ‘Dinamina’,
‘Thinakaran’, and ‘Daily News’ papers notifying the issuance of
admission cards. Candidates appearing for the examination should
get the admission card attested in advance and produce it to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Without such admission card,
no candidate will be allowed to sit for the examination. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations: i.e. certified photocopies of the
application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt
of registration and, in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of
request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should
be sent.
12.0  Admission to the examination does not constitute
acceptance of eligibility. Such admission will be subjected to
scrutinization at a later stage. The candidature of any applicant,
who is subsequently found to have been ineligible to compete at the
examination, is liable to cancelled at any stage prior to, during or
after the examination.
13.0  The results will be released to the Director-General of
Combined Services by the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
14.0 Identity of Candidates.- Candidates will be required-to prove
their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
714
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, any of the
following documents will be accepted :–
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons,
(b) a valid passport.
15.0 Heads of Departments should approve duty leave to
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations enabling them· to appear
for the exam. Travelling expenses are not payable.
16.0  Penalty for Furnishing False Information .- Candidates
should take care to furnish correct information when filling the
application form. As per the rules and regulations of the examination,
the candidature of any applicant may be cancelled prior to, during
or after the examination, if his/her ineligibility to sit for the
examination is disclosed. If any of the particulars furnished by a
candidate is found to be false at any stage he/she will be liable to
dismissal from the Public Service.
17.0  Scheme of Examination.– The subjects of the examination
and the marks assigned to each subject are given below:
Subject Marks Duration
(1) General Knowledge 100 2 hours
(2) Aptitude Test
100 1 hour
Total 200
General Knowledge (duration 2 hours)  :
(i) Knowledge of the candidate on social, cultural, political
and scientific matters.
(ii) Knowledge on current local and foreign events.
(iii) General knowledge and understanding of the candidates
on simple office systems applied in a public office, call
up diary, subject file, vouchers, moving sheets, attendance
register, date stamp, stamp, frank and mail bag and their
usage.
(iv) Understanding and attitudes of candidates on the matters
such as sound communication systems maintained in
public institutions, proper maintenance of the environment
in and out of the office, maintenance of sound public
relations.
This question paper consists of two parts :–
Part I - 40 questions which require short answers (40 minutes -
40 marks)
Part II - 10 questions which require short answers based on a
case, statement or paragraph and three structured
questions. (80 minutes - 60 marks)
The questions should be answered in the paper itself
and it is compulsory to answer all the questions.
Aptitude Test (Duration 1 hour) :
(i) Solving simple numerical and mathematical questions
and drawing graphs/tables based on the data provided.
(ii) Questions to test the knowledge on general intelligence
and critical reasoning.
(iii) Questions to test the Ability of candidates to express
ideas and understanding, ability to summarize few
sentences into one, Spelling & Grammar and knowledge
on words.
(iv) Questions to test the Knowledge on Drafting a simple
letter based on information provided, writing a minute
or short report, preparing an invitation and an agenda.
This question paper consists of two parts which will be given
as a single question paper.
Part I - 20 questions of multiple choices type (20 marks - 15
minutes) the questions should be answered in the paper
itself.
Part II - 03 Essay type questions (80 marks - 45 minutes),
consists of compulsory questions. The questions should
be answered in the paper itself.
Note:-
(i) These question papers are designed to test the
candidate's aptitude and ability to undertake duties
of the service.
(ii) In all written answer papers, marks will be deducted
for spelling mistakes and illegible handwriting.
18.0  The decision of the Director General of Combined Service
will be final regarding any matter not provided for in this notice of
examination.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARA THNE,
Director General of Combined Services
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
05th of April, 2012.
Specimen Application Form
(For office use only)
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
PROMOTION OF MINOR EMPLOYEES OF THE PUBLIC
SERVICE TO CLASS III OF THE PUBLIC MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS' SERVICE - 2012
Town Town No.
1.
2.
Language medium of Examination (T own in which you intend
Sinhala - 2 to sit the examination as per
Tamil - 3 the Gazette notification.
English - 4 It will not be allowed to
(indicate the relevant number in change this subsequently)
the cage) (it will not be allowed
to change this subsequently)

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
715
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
eg.– SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Place of Work and Address :
2.1 Name and address of office/Department/Institution (in
English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
2.2 Name and address of Office/Department/Institution (in
Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent (in
English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1,         Male - 0
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year :                           Month :              Date :
3.3 National Identity Card No. :
3.4 Telephone No. :
4.0 Service particulars :
4.1 Name of the work place which you are serving at present :
––––––––.
4.2 Name of the Department or Ministry which it belongs :
––––––––––.
4.3 Designation of present post :––––––––––. .
4.4 Date of appointment to the present post :––––––––––.
4.5 Whether the present post is permanent or temporary :
––––––––––.
4.6 Whether confirmed in the present post :––––––––––.
4.7 If confirmed, the date on which you qualified for
confirmation :––––––––––. .
4.8 Reference No. and date of letter issued confirming you in
the present post :––––––––––. .
4.9 Present annual salary (consolidated) :––––––––––.
4.10 Whether the present appointment is pensionable :–––––.
5.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the examination
fee:
(i) Office to which the fee was paid :––––––––––.
(ii) The date and number of the receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :––––––––––.
Affix the  relevant receipt firmly here.
I hereby certify that the information furnished here by me are
correct. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false or incorrect before appointment, I am liable to be
disqualified and if found after appointment, I am liable to be
dismissed. Further, I state that I am bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for the conduct of examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
(in the presence of the Head of Department).
Date :–––––––––.
Note.– The applicant should place his/her signature in the
presence of his/her Head of Department or an officer authorized to
sign on behalf of him.
Attestation of  Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... , employed at my
place of work and who is personally known to me, placed his/her
signature in my presence on ................................. .
––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp
of the person attesting.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department
I hereby certify,
(01) that this candidate (Mr./Mrs./Miss.) .................. is an
employee in this Department ;
(02) that he/she is holding a permanent post ;
(03) that he/she has been confirmed in a permanent post as at
21.05.2012 ;
(04) that he/she has been issued a letter confirming him/her in a
permanent post ;
(05) that he/she has completed at least 5 years of continuous
service on or before 21.05.2012 ;
(06) that he/she is drawing a salary / or is on a scale of salary
which is within the limits prescribed in para 8.0 of the
Gazette Notification ;
(07) that his/her work and conduct during the 5 years
immediately prior to 21.05.2012 have been satisfactory ;
(08) that he/she could be released from his/her present post, if
selected for an appointment on the results of this
examination ;
(09) that the application bears a receipt to the value of Rs. 400 ;

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
716
(10) that the particulars given in his/her application have been
checked with records available in this departments and
that he/she is eligible to sit this examination according to
the regulations prescribed in the Gazette Notification
relating to this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
Head of Department.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Note :
(l) This certificate should be signed only by the Head of
Department or by a Staff Officer duly authorized to sign
on his behalf. The officer issuing the certificate should
satisfy himself that the contents of the certificate are
correct in all aspects.
(2) The application of any candidate who does not satisfy all
the requirements of eligibility should not be forwarded to
the Commissioner General of Examinations.
04–602
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND
HEALTH  SERVICE – 2011(2012)
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in the above mentioned Service will be held in Perad eniya in
September, 2012. Applications are called from the officers who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service as at  31st
December, 2011.
02. The time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the same time.
03. The syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and II are stated in the service minute.
Accordingly Syllabus for the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service is given in Appendix  "A"
and syllabus for the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examinations is given in Appendix "B".
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
04. The prescribed subjects for the Efficiency Bar Examinations are given below :
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service
1st Efficiency Bar 2nd Efficiency Bar
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subjects Duration
No. (hours) No. (hours)
01 Financial Systems 3 01 Part 01 3
02 Administration 3 02 Part 02 3
03 Dept. Regulations Paper I 2 03 Part 03 - Paper I 3
04 Dept. Regulations Paper II 3 04 Part 03 - Paper II 3
05 Special Paper* 3 05 Part 03 - Paper III 3
06 Part 03 - Paper IV 3
07 Part 03 - Paper V 3
08 Part 03 - Paper VI 3
09 Part 03 - Paper VII 3
10 Part 03 - Paper VIII 3
11 Part 03 - Paper IX 3
12 Part 03 - Paper X 3
13 Part 03 - Paper XI 3
*Only for the Veterinary Research Officers.
Note.– The candidates who sit for 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination should select either Part 01 or  02 and two question
papers from the above XI papers in Part 03. Candidate should obtain at least 40 marks for each paper.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
717
05. The attention of the candidates who sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to Paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04th September, 1966 which is reproduced below :–
“The medium for departmental examinations (including Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the
language in which the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official Language.
But the officers who entered the service without a competitive examination should select either the Language in which the
officer qualified for entry to the Public Service or the Official Language”.
06. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of Examinations enabling the candidates to answer the following
papers in Sinhala, Tamil, English. Permission will not be given to change the medium applied by the candidate later :–
07. If found later that the candidate has sat for the examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature will be
cancelled.
08. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 size paper
using both sides of it. If the candidate wishes to sit for Efficiency Bar Examination I and II the application should be submitted
separately for each of them. It should be noted that the Cages 01 to 08 should appear on page I of the paper and the balance on the other
side of the paper. The application should be filled by the candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per the specim en form
and the incomplete applications forms will be rejected without informing the candidate. The candidate is advised to keep a Phot ostat
Copy of the application for his use. Further the candidate should check the applications prepared by himself with the specimen
application appeared in the notice. The name of the examination should be written in English too in the applications prepared i n Sinhala
or Tamil medium.
09. The examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by the
rules and regulations enacted by him. The relevant rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this notice. If a candidate violates any
of the rules is liable to punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Applications should be forwarded through the Head of Department/Institute by Registered Post to reach the Director
General of Animal Production and Health to the address given below on or before 29.06.2012. The applications received after the closing
date will be rejected :–
Director General of Animal Production and Health,
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Getambe,
Peradeniya.
11. A paper notice will be published by the Department of Examinations as soon as the Admission Cards are issued to the
candidates. If the Admission Card is not received 2-3 days after the publication of the notice, it should be informed to the Department of
Animal Production and Health as stated in the notice. It is useful to keep certified photostat copies of the application and re ceipt for the
payment and receipt for the registration with your request and those who reside outside Colombo should contact giving the Fax N umber
and contact the Department of Animal Production and Health.
12. The claims submitted later by the candidates who have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above Paragraph 11
will not be considered.
13. The attention of all the candidates is invited to Circular No. 274 dated 29.06.1971 issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding the use of identity cards. It is the responsibility of candidates to prove their identity at the examination hall. Only
the National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons or the valid passport will be accepted for the examinations
conducted by the Department of Examinations in order to prove the identity of the candidate at the examination hall.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the examination, on the following basis :–
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this examination for the first time,
(b) For each subsequent sitting :
For whole examination Rs. 1,000 0
Single subject Rs. 500 0
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are required to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. The above
examination fees should be paid to any District or Divisional Secretariat situated in the Island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 2003-
02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in t he
application. Further it may be useful to keep a photostat copy of it.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
718
15. Issuing of an Admission Card to a candidate will not be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the
examination.
K. M. T. KENDARAGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
No. 45, St. Michel Road,
Colombo 03,
March, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
D
EPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS – SRI LANKA
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR THE OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE - 2011(2012)
(The name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.)
(Three applications should be sent for Efficiency Bar Examinations I, II and III if the candidate wishes to sit for them at the  same time).
Language Medium of Examination  : Si nhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Give the relevant number in the box)
Examination applied by the candidate :
1st Efficiency Bar Examination - 1
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination - 2 (Give the relevant number in the box)
01. ( a) Last name with initials  :––––––––––.
(Ex. : Nimalsiri K. A.)
(b) Names denoted by initials  :––––––––––.
02. Date of Birth :  Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
03. Designation :––––––––––.
Name of Department :––––––––––.
04. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) :––––––––––.
05. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service :––––––––––.
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the paragraph 04 of the notification (should be written clearly) :
(i) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
(ii) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
(iii) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
(iv) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
(v) Subject No. : Subject :––––––––––.
07. State whether you have sit for the whole/part of examination previously  :–––––––.
If so give the subjects, year and the month :–––––––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. Further I am prepared to abide the conditions enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the con duct
of the examination.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
719
09. Examination fee Rs. :––––––––––.
To affix the receipt (keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health
Forwarded :-
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications
to sit for the examination in the medium stated in the application.
I also certify that the receipt paying the prescribed examination fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(*May be deleted, fee not be paid)
ANNEXURE A
(a) The First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the following
subjects :
1. Financial systems ;
2. Administration ;
3. Departmental Regulation – I
4. Departmental Regulation - II
1. Financial Systems :
The examination in Financial Systems will be based on the followings :
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka Part I (Except Chapter X) ;
Note.- A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
2. Administration.– The examination in Administration will be based on the followings :
(a) Office Systems, Office Management and knowledge on office organization ;
(b) The Establishments Code Chapters I, II, III, V, VI amended by the Service Procedure of Public Service Commission and
Establishment Code Chapters VII, VIII, IX, XII, XIII, XIV , XV , XVI, XVII, XVIII, XIX,  XX, XIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII,
XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII AND XLVIII) ;
Note.– A candidate of should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
3. Departmental Regulations - 1
The examination in Departmental Regulations will be based on the followings :
A two hour paper on the following subjects :
Animal Act, the Animal Disease Act and related regulations, Departmental Orders and circulars relevant to Veterinary Surgeon's
Services
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
4. Departmental Regulations - II
A three hour paper on the following subjects :–
(a) Dissemination of specimens, laboratory identification including post - mortem examination. Pregnancies diagnosis, vaccines for
contagious and infectious disease, sera logical test.
(b) Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations, principles relevant to breeding and rearing of calves, hatching and rearing of
chicks by incubation, animal nutrition food rationing usage. pasture fodder cultivation, preparation of silages and Livestock
Management.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
720
(c) Milk production, bottling and transportation of pasteurized milk, bacteria and fat in milk, separation of cream and processing
of butter, ghee and curd.
(d) Analysis of meat, including slaughtering of animal in abattoirs, identification of meat.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the marks for a pass.
APPENDIX  ‘B’
The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the followi ng
subjects :–
Part I - Sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2, 8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2, 9:4, 9:6 and 9:7 of the syllabus. The
syllabus can be obtained from The Director General of Department of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya
and the entire Provincial Directors' offices of Department of Animal Production and Health.
Part II - Sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1, 10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3, 10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8 and 10:4:1 of
the syllabus. The syllabus can be obtained from the Director General of Department of AP&H, Peradeniya and all
Provincial Directors' office of Department of Animal Production and Health.
Part III - Paper I - Epidemiology
Paper II - Livestock Economics
Paper III - Veterinary Public Health
Paper IV - Agriculture Extension
Paper V - Genetics and Breeding
Paper VI - Animal Physiology and reproduction
Paper VII - Housing for Animals and Management
Paper VIII - Animal Nutrition
Paper IX - Pasture and Fodder
Paper X - Applied Vet. Microbiology and Immunology
Paper XI - Applied Medicine, Pathology and Parasitology
Details can be obtained from the Director General of Department of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya and all
Provincial Directors' Office of Department of Animal Production and Health.
04–480
––––––––––––––––––––
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2012
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Posts in Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service.
2.0 Candidates who satisfy the prescribed qualifications will be selected on merit, on the results of a written examination to be
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and, on the basis of district population ratio, to the posts in the Publi c
Management Assistants' Service.
3.0 Number of persons to be appointed and effective date of appointments will be determined by the Appointing Authority.
Further, the Appointing Authority reserves the right to refrain from filling some or all of the vacancies.
4.0 Salary.– As per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv), dated 24.08.2007, monthly salary scale entitled to
Class III, II and I of Public Management Assistants' Service is Rs. 13,990 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 - Rs. 23,230. Promotion
to Class II should be obtained to go beyond Rs. 15,440 whilst promotion to Class I will be required to go beyond Rs. 17,310.
5.0 This post is permanent and pensionable.
6.0 Qualifications.– Following qualifications are applicable for the recruitment to posts in Class III of Public Management
Assistants' Service :–
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications ;

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
721
(c) Should be of good character ;
(d) Should have fulfilled the following Educational qualifications :–
(1) Should have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in Six (06) subjects with four
(04) Credit passes including Sinhala/Tamil/English Language and Mathematics at one sitting ; and
(2) Should have passed in all subjects other than the Common General Paper and General English at the General
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination at one sitting.
(However, passing in three (03) subjects under the old syllabus at one sitting would be sufficient for this purpose).
It is compulsory to have satisfied all qualifications prescribed for the post by candidates on or before 21st of May, 2012.
7.0 Selection on District population basis :
(a) Recruitment to the service will strictly be on a representative basis. A fixed number of vacancies will be set apart for each
district in propotion to its population and in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 15/90. Only the applicants
from a particular district will be entitled to compete for the number of vacancies to be filled in that district.
(i) If the posts so allocated to a particular district are not absorbed by the district, that number of vacancies will be
re-distributed among the adjoining districts within the province.
(ii) If the total number of posts to be filled is few and the district population basis cannot be applied, selection will be
made on the order of merit.
(iii) Where the number of candidates who secure the minimum marks required is less than the number of vacancies
available in a district, the district population basis shall not be applied for the selection.
(b) Eligibility for inclusion in a district.– At least one of the following requirements should have been fulfilled by a candidate
to compete for the vacancies in any district :–
(i) The candidate should have been born in the district ;  or
(ii) He should have been a permanent resident of the district at least for three (03) continuous years within the five (05)
years immediately preceding the last date to fulfill the eligibility qualifications for the examination ; or
(iii) He should have received his secondary school education within the district for five (05) continuous years.
(c) In order to confirm the residence of the candidate under b (ii) above, candidate is bound to forward extracts from electoral
registers for a period of three (03) years immediately preceding the closing date of applications and the certificate of
residence issued by Grama Niladhari duly counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.
Note.– 1. If the father/mother of any candidate has been employed in a transferable service of the Government or of a
Provincial Public Service or of a State corporation, such candidate will be allowed to choose his own, or his
father's/mother's place of birth as his district. (Candidates are required to forward birth certificates of parents
for this purpose).
2. No candidate will be allowed to compete for vacancies in more than one district. Once a candidate declares a
district of his choice as the most preferred, it should remain irrevocable.
8.0 Three percent (3%) of the existing number of vacancies will be reserved for persons with disabilities. Only 3% of the
persons with disabilities who secure highest marks in the examination and qualify will be selected for appointments.
The minimum level of marks candidates should score to be selected for appointment is 50%. A candidate selected for an
appointment will be referred to a Special Medical Board and by a report obtained from a medical specialist, he/she should estab lish the
disablement and the fact that, it does not hinder performance of duties of the respective post.
9.0 Scheme of the examination.– The examination will consist of two papers. This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English media. Candidates will not be allowed to change language medium applied initially.
Marks Durations
(i) Language proficiency 100 1 1/2 hours
(ii) Aptitude 100 1 hour

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
722
Language Proficiency.– This paper will consist of questions designed to test the candidates' ability of expression, comprehension,
spelling and knowledge in the application of the simple rules of grammar. All questions should be answered.
Aptitude.– This paper will consist of questions designed to test the candidates' skill at figures, power of critical reasoning and
general intelligence. This consists of 50 questions of Multiple Choice and Short Answer model. All questions should be answered .
(These papers will be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties).
Despite this being a competitive examination, candidates are expected to secure at least 40% of the marks allocated for each
subject and an aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks of the examination. Appointments will strictly be made in the order of the marks
scored, depending on the number of vacancies set apart to be filled on the results of the competitive examination.
10.0 Penalty for furnishing false information. – The candidate should be very careful to include the correct particulars in the
application. If it is found that any candidate is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature
can be cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination. Further, if it is found that any information furnished by  a candidate
is false, he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public service.
11.0 Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500. This fee can be paid to any Divisional or District Secretariat to be credited
to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained should be affixed in the relevant cage of
the application so as not to be detached. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of this receipt with the candidate). Under no ci rcumstance
the examination fee will be refunded. Money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
12.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in the following manner using a paper of size A4 (21x29cm) (normal
halfsheets).
(a) Paragraphs from 1 to 3 should appear on the first side of the page.
(b) Paragraphs No. 4 onwards should appear on the other pages.
(c) The title of the examination appearing in the specimen should be indicated in English Language as well, on both Sinhala
and Tamil application forms.
Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form, will be rejected without any notice.
Applications of those who have not paid examination fees on or before due date will also be rejected. Candidates should be resp onsible
for any loss incurred by them due to incompleteness of applications. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure tha t the
application form perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen given in the examination notice and further, it would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
Note.– Candidates are not allowed to change the town in which they apply to sit the examination. At the instances where the
number of candidates apply for a certain town, is not sufficient to hold an examination centre, they will be directed to the
town which they have indicated as second preference. However, if there is not sufficient number of candidates even at the
second centre, the candidates will be directed to an adjoining city.
12.1 All applicants who have paid prescribed examination fees and forwarded their applications on or before the prescribed
date will be allowed to sit the competitive examination, by the Commissioner General of Examinations, on the
presumption that only those who possess qualifications indicated in the Gazette Notification have forwarded their
applications. Issuing of an admission card to a candidate to sit the competitive examination does not mean that the
candidates' eligibility for the post has been accepted. If it is found at the interview that the applicant does not possess
the required qualifications prescribed in the Gazette Notification, his or her candidature will be cancelled.
12.2 The words "Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to Class III of Public Management Assistants' Service -
2012" and the district for which the candidate is competing should be written on the top left-hand corner of the
envelope in which the application is enclosed.
12.3 Candidate's signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an officer holding
a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service whose annual Salary
is Rs. 240,360 or above.
12.4 Applications duly perfected should be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or before 21st of May,
2012.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Overseas Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
723
13.0 Sitting the Examination .– A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify  the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. it would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time
of calling the Department of Examinations. i. e. certified photocopies of the application form and the cash receipt kept at your possession,
receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admis sion card
should be sent.
14.0 Candidates should furnish one of the following documents to the Supervisor of Examination in support of their identity :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department for Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
15.0 The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the required qualifications to sit
the examination. Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for  the
purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed by Commissioner General o f
Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
16.0 Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Director General of Combined Services. All candidates are bound to
comply with the general examination rules published in this Gazette.
B. P. P. S. ABEYGUNARATHNA,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
05th of April, 2012.
Specimen Application Form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF
PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE – 2012
(Indicate the correct code/number clearly in the relevant cages)
(for office use only)    
Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the correct number in the cage)
* Indicate the town and the town number in which the candidate intends
to sit the examination as per the Gazette Notification. (See the Schedule II
for the towns where the examination centres are located and for the
respective numbers)
* The district in which you select to compete for vacancies as per District District No.
para 7.0 of the Gazette Notification. (See the Schedule I for the numbers
of districts. Indicate the number and the district in the relevant cage.)
* Are you sitting this examination under the conditions laid down in para 8.0 of the gazette Yes - 1
notification which are relevant to disability ? (Candidates may refer para 8.0 of the No - 2
Gazette Notification before filling this section.) (indicate the number in the cage)
Town Number of
the Town
1.
2.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
724
1.0 Name :–––––––––.
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals) eg. PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in Full :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in Full :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Number of the N.I.C. :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :–––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex : Female - 1 Male - 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year :   Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at 21.05.2012 :
Years : Months : Days :
Telephone No. :
4.0 4.1 Since when you have been residing in the district ? :–––––––––.
4.2 Divisional Secretary's/Assistant Government Agent's Division :–––––––––.
4.3 Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––.
5.0 Educational qualifications :
5.1 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of Candidate :–––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
5.2 Particulars of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of Candidate :–––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.3 If possessing a degree from a recognized University :
(i) Name of the University :–––––––––.
(ii) Degree :–––––––––.
(iii) Y ear of Examination :–––––––––.
6.0 Other Qualifications :–––––––––.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
725
7.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court of Law ? Y es No
(Indicate 3in the relevant cage) (Indicate particulars, if the answer is yes)
8.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment was made :–––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––.
(iii) Amount :–––––––––.
Affix the receipt firmly here
9.0 Candidate's Certificate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I agree
to suffer any loss that may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections and/or provision of erroneous information. I also
state that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification before appointment a nd
to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the purpose of holding
this examination.
(d) I shall not change any information mentioned herein subsequently.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
10.0 A ttestation of Applicant's Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who submits this application is known to me personally and t hat he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on .................... and further the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted
the receipt on the applications.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
Date :–––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
S
CHEDULE - I
THE LIST OF THE NAMES OF DISTRICTS
District District Number
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mulativu 12
Vavuniya 13
District District Number
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Monaragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Kilinochchi 25

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
726
SCHEDULE - II
TOWNS WHERE EXAMINATION CENTERS WILL BE LOCA TED
District Town No. of the Town
(01) Colombo Kotahena 01
Maradana 02
Borella 03
Kurunduwatta 04
Bambalapitiya 05
Havelock Town 06
Nugegoda 07
Moratuwa 08
Piliyandala 09
Homagama 10
Maharagama 11
Hanwella 12
Avissawella 13
(02) Gampaha Negombo 14
Minuwangoda 15
Divulapitiya 16
Veyangoda 17
Gampaha 18
Ja-Ela 19
Wattala 20
Kelaniya 21
Dompe 22
(03) Kalutara Horana 23
Panadura 24
Kalutara 25
Matugama 26
Aluthgama 27
(04) Matale Matale 28
Galewela 29
Naula 30
Laggala Pallegama 31
(05) Kandy Kandy 32
Katugastota 33
Teldeniya 34
Wattegama 35
Nugawela 36
Galagedara 37
Gampola 38
(06) Nuwara Eliya Hedunuwewa 39
Nuwara Eliya 40
Watumulla 41
Hatton 42
Ginigathhena 43
(07) Galle Ambalangoda 44
Galle 45
Baddegama 46
(08) Matara W eligama 47
Matara 48
Kamburupitiya 49
Hakmana 50
Deiyandara 51
Dikwella 52
Akuressa 53
Kotapola 54
(09) Hambantota Beliatta 55
Walasmulla 56
Weeraketiya 57
Tangalle 58
Ambalantota 59
Hambantota 60
Tissamaharama 61
(10) Jaffna Chavakachcheri 62
Jaffna 63
Thellipallai 64
Point Pedro 65
(11) Mannar Mannar 66
Murukkan 67
(12) Mullativu Mullativu 68
(13) Vavuniya Vavuniya 69
(14) Trincomalee Kantalai 70
Trincomalee 71
Muttur 72
Padavi Parakramapura 73
Kinniya 74
(15) Batticaloa Batticaloa 75
Eravur 76
Kathankudi 77
(16) Ampara Ampara 78
Serankada 79
Kalmunai 80
Akkaraeipattu 81
Sammanthurai 82
(17) Puttalam W ennappuwa 83
Madampe 84
Chilaw 85
Puttalam 86
(18) Kurunegala Kuliyapitiya 87
Bingiriya 88
Narammala 89
Polgahawela 90
Kurunegala 91
Ibbagamuwa 92
District Town No. of the Town

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
727
Dodangaslanda 93
Morathiha 94
Nikaweratiya 95
Maho 96
(19) Anuradhapura Medawachchiya 97
Kekirawa 98
Anuradhapura 99
Galenbindunuwewa 100
Kahatagasdigiliya 101
(20) Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa 102
Hingurakgoda 103
(21) Badulla Bandarawela 104
Welimada 105
Badulla 106
Passara 107
Mahiyanganaya 108
Girandurukotte 109
Hasalaka 110
(22) Monaragala Bibile 111
Monaragala 112
Wellawaya 113
(23) Kegalle Kegalle 114
Rambukkana 115
Mawanella 116
Ruwanwella 117
(24) Ratnapura Eheliyagoda 118
Ratnapura 119
Pelmadulla 120
Balangoda 121
Kalawana 122
Embilipitiya 123
(25) Kilinochchi Kilinochchi 124
Pallai 125
04-603
––––––––––––––––
District Town No. of the Town
SPECIAL OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
FILLING GRADE  III  VACANCIES OF THE  SRI  LANKA
ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE IN THE NORTHERN AND
EASTERN PROVINCES - 2012
APPLICA TIONS are invited from the eligible citizens of Sri Lanka
for the Special Open Competitive Examination to fill the vacancies
of Grade III of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service in the Northern and
Eastern Provinces.
IN this notice "Service" means the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service
(S.L. Ac. S.)
1. Date of Examination. – Examination will be held in  2012
August in Colombo and in Jaffna by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to
postpone/cancel  the Examination. The Commissioner General of
Examinations reserves the right to hold the examination and issue
results, and his decision shall  be deemed final.
2.  Number of  persons to be appointed and effective date of the
appointment :- To be determined by  the orders of the Public Service
Commission.
3.  Conditions of  Service.– A selected candidate will be appointed
to the Grade III of Sri Lanka   Accountants’ Service subject to
general conditions of governing appointment of the  Public Service,
conditions prescribed in the minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants’
Service  published in the  Extraordinary Gazette  of  the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  No. 1670/33 dated 10th of September
2010 and the amendments made thereto or  to be made hereafter.
  3.1 The number of vacancies to be filled through this
examination in the Northern and Eastern provinces is 63.
    3.2 Those who are selected should serve at least 10 years in
the Northern and Eastern provinces from the date of
appointment. Failure to do so would result in termination
of their service.
     3.3 Applications of the candidates are liable to be revoked if
the candidates fail to assume duties of the post on the
prescribed date and/or refuse or avoid to assume duties
in the post or in an area stipulated.
3.4 The officers who are appointed by the Special
Examination should pass Sinhala Language Test within
05 years in addition to the first efficiency bar examination
for the officers of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service. (As
per the provisions of Public Administration Circular No.
07/2007)
4.  Structure and Monthly Salary Scales.– Monthly Salary Scale
as per Salary Code SL 1-2006 of the Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006.
Monthly Salary Scale.– SL 1-2006-Rs; 22,935 -10X645- 8X790
– 17X1,050 – Rs. 53,555.
5.  Qualifications :-    (a)  Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should possess a Degree in Commerce, Management,
Accountancy or Economics from a University recognized
by the University Grants Commission
                                          or
(ii) Should be a holder of a Higher Diploma in Accountancy
or Commerce from the Sri Lanka Technical College or Sri
Lanka Institute of Higher Technical Education;
or
(iii) Should have passed the Intermediate or Licentiate or
Higher Examination of the  Institute of Chartered

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
728
Accountants of Sri Lanka or an Institute of Chartered
Accountants in any other commonwealth country;
or
(iv) Sho uld have passed the Parts I and II of costs and
management Examination or intermediate or  Higher
Examination conducted by the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants of the United Kingdom or in
any other Commonwealth Country;
or
(v) Should have passed the First Professional Level or Higher
Level Examination of the Institute of Certified Accountants
of the United Kingdom or any other Commonwealth
Country;
or
(vi) Should have passed parts I and II Examination or higher
Level Examination of Association of chartered Certified
Accountants of United Kingdom or in any other
Commonwealth Country;
or
(vii) Final Examination of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries
and Managers of the United Kingdom.
and
(viii) Should be able to speak Tamil language fluently to perform
duties in the   Northern and Eastern Provinces and should
have passed Tamil language as a main subject at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination.
(b)   All candidates should be physically   fit in all aspects
to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
(c)  Other qualifications -  the applicant,
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(ii) Should be of excellent  moral character
(iii) No candidate will be permitted to sit for the Open
Competitive Examination more than two occasions.
(iv) A person holding priesthood in any of the religious
sects will be ineligible to sit this examination
(v) A person will be deemed as qualified to sit the
Competitive Examination for  appointment to the
service, if  the candidate has fulfilled necessary
qualification in para 5 (a) in all respect as at 20.04.2012
(on the date of publication of Gazette notification)
and  copies of certificates in support of qualifications
should be attached to the application.
(d)  Age.– Candidate should not be less than 22 years and not
more than 30 years as at 20.04.2012 (on the date of
publication of the Gazette notification)
6.  Examination Fee.– The fee for the Examination is Rs. 300.
This fee should be paid before closing date of applications at a
Divisional Secretariat or District Secretariat  in order  to be credited
to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13. The  receipt issued from the
Divisional Secretariat should be pasted in  the relevant box provided
in the application form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
receipt with the applicants. The fee is not refundable.
7.  Method of Application:-
(a) The applications should be prepared strictly in
accordance with the specimen form annexed to this
notification, using both sides of a paper size A4 and
should be filled by the candidate himself.
(b) Item No.  01 to 04 of the application should be on the
first page. The application should be in the language in
which the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
However, the heading should be written in English (Block
Capitals) when preparing the application. (See Para. 12)
(c) The applications for the Open Competitive Examination
must be sent by Registered Post to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before
18.05.2012.  It should clearly written "Special Open
Competitive Examination for filling Grade III Vacancies
of the Sri Lanka Accountants Service in the Northern
and Eastern Provinces – 2012 " on the top left hand
corner of the envelope containing the application. No
application received after that date will be accepted.
The receipt of  applications will not be acknowledged. A
notice will be published in the newspapers as soon as
the Admission Cards are issued to the applicant. A
candidate who does not receive his/her Admission Card
at least seven days before the date of the examination
should immediately communicate with the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla. (Telegraphic
Address "Exams" Pelawatta)  with following particulars:
1.  Name of the Examination:
2. Full Name of the candidate:
3. Address:
4. Posting date of the Application, Registered Number
and Post Office:
(d) The post and the working place of the candidate at the
time of applying for the examination are  related to all
the matters pertaining to the examination and any change
in that respect will not be considered after sending
applications.
8.  Admission to the Examination:-
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to every person who has sent a
perfected application after paying the examination fees
before the due date. A candidate presenting himself for
the examination must produce his  Admission Card with
signature certified, to the Supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate, who fails to produce his Admission
Card, will not be permitted to sit the Examination.
(b) The candidate must sit the Examination at the
Examination Hall assigned to him. Every candidate

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
729
should hand over his/her Admission Card of the  relevant
examination  hall to the Supervisor of the Examination
Centre on the first day presenting himself for the
examination at the hall. A set of rules to be observed by
all candidates are published in the Gazette.
(c) The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
(d) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down
in respect of holding the Examination and the decisions
taken in respect of issuing results by the  Commissioner-
General of Examinations.  A candidate who violates any
of those rules is liable to punishment  at the discretion of
the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
09.  Identification of  a Candidate.– A Candidate will be required
to prove his identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of
the Supervisor of the Examination Centre for each subject he offers.
For this purpose one   of the following documents will be accepted.
(a)  A National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons;
(b) A valid passport issued by the Department of
Immigration and Emigration.
10.  Furnishing False Information.– If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior
to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished
by candidate is found incorrect and has done so within the knowledge
of him or if he has willfully suppressed a material fact, he will be
liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
11.  Any matter not provided in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
12.  Scheme of Examination :
 (i)  Language of Examination:
(a) The Examination will be held only in Tamil medium.
13.  Method of Testing :-
(a) An written examination consisting of  the following
subjects :
(i)  Financial Accounting Paper I - 3 hours – 100 marks
(ii)  Financial Accounting Paper II - 3 hours – 100 marks
(iii)  Cost and Management Accounting
- 3 hours – 100 marks
(iv)  Public Financial Management - 3 hours – 100 marks
(v)  Auditing and Investigations - 3 hours – 100 marks
(vi)  General Intelligence and Comprehension
 - 3 hours – 100 marks
Syllabus is given at the end of this notice.
(b) Interview.– Only candidates who secure a minimum of
40% marks in each subject at the written examination will
be  summoned for  the interview. The number of candidates
to be called for the interview will be determined by the
Public Service Commission  in order of merit of the marks
obtained by the candidates  at the written examination and
according to the number of existing  vacancies as the case
may be.
14.  Method of Selection for  Appointment. – Those who have
scored highest marks in order of the merit  at   the written
examination and duly filled the basic qualifications will be selected.
In the event of candidate having tied for a place, the final decision of
selection for such a place will be made by the Public Service
Commission.
             By order of the Public Service Commission,
P . A. A
BEYSEKERA,
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
On this 20th day of April, 2012.
Special Open/Competitive Examination for filling Grade III
Vacancies of the Sri Lanka Accountants' Service in the
Northern and Eastern Provinces  – 2012
Index No :
(for official use only)
Town in which the applicant sits Town No.
for the examination
Indicate the Town Number in which the applicant sit for the
examination and the number of the same.  (Colombo 1, Jaffna 2)
Medium of the Examination:
Tamil 3
(Please write relevant number in the cage)
1.0 Name :
1.1. Last Name with Initials: Mr./Mrs./Miss. :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
Eg :  Mr./Mrs./Miss
. SILV A, A.B.
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––.
(Tamil)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
2.0 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(Tamil)
2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
2.2 Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :
––––––––––.
(In capital letters)

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
730
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1,     Male - 0
(Please write the relevant number)
3.2 Marital Status :
Married - 1 Single - 2
(Please write relevant number)
3.3 National Identity Card No. :
3.4 Date of Birth :
Year :   Month :                Date :
3.4 Age as at the closing date of application  :
Years :              Months :                   Days:
4.0 The qualification obtained to be eligible to sit this Examination
under Para 5 of the  Notification :––––––––––.
5.0 The  years in which your have sat the Limited Competitive
Examination for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Accountants’
Service.
Years:
1. .......................
2. .......................
3. .......................
6.0 The cash receipt should be pasted to the application firmly :
(To affix the receipt)
Keep a photocopy of the receipt with candidate
(i) Number :–––––––––.
(ii) Date  :–––––––––.
 (iii) Place of amount  paid :–––––––––.
 (iv) Amount paid : Rs.  :–––––––––.
7.0 Certificate by Candidate :
7.1 I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given in this form is true and that I have affixed
receipt No….. dated …………….. having paid  the
Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules
governing the  examination and any decision that may be
taken to cancel my candidature prior to during or after the
examination if it is found that I am ineligible according to
the regulations of the examination. Further, I agree to abide
by the rules laid down in respect of holding the Examination
and the decisions taken in respect of issuing results by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
8.0 Attestation  :
I do  hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............ (Full name)
who forwards this application  is known to me personally and
placed his/her signature in  my  presence on this …….. day of
……………2012.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date  :––––––––––.
Attester’s Full Name  :––––––––––.
Post  :––––––––––.
Address : (Should be supported by a Rubber Stamp)  :––––––––.
Date : :––––––––––.
Note.– Attester should be a Justice of the Peace, Commissioner
of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public or Government
Servant drawing an annual consolidated salary not less than
Rs. 240,360.
APPENDIX I
Particulars of the syllabus regarding Special Competitive
Examinations for filling Grade III vacancies of the Sri Lanka
Accountants’ Service in the Northern and Eastern Province.
The examination will consist of the following examination papers.
No. Subjects Maximum Pass Time
Marks Marks
1 Financial Accountancy -I 100 40 03 hours
2 Financial Accountancy -II 100 40 03 hours
3 Cost and Management 100 40 03 hours
Accountancy
4 Public Financial 100 40 03 hours
Management
5 Auditing and Investigation 100 40 03 hours
6 General Intelligence and 100 40 03 hours
Comprehension
Syllabus:
Subject No. 01 and 02  - Financial Accountancy I and II
Purpose of Financial Accountancy  and users of accounts and
information required by them.
Accounting Principles:
Accounting Equation, Double Entry Book keeping and
Accounting Systems, Prime Entry Books and Ledgers. Trial balance,
Accumulated pre-payments and Adjustments, Capital Expenditure
and income, Depreciations, Suspense Accounts, Correction of
Errors, Control Accounts, Reconciliation Statements, Incomplete
records.

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
731
Final Accounts :
Manufacturing Accounts, Trading Profit and Loss Accounts,
Balance Sheet, Fund Flow  Statement and Appropriation Account.
Accounting for Partnerships:
Partnership Agreements, Book keeping for partnerships, Fixed
Capital Accounts, Current Accounts, Accounting for debts, Drawing
Accounts, Preparation of Final Accounts for Partnerships, Changes
in the composition of a Partnership, Treatment of goodwill and
action on other assets and liabilities in admission of partners and
dissolution of partnerships, Joint ventures.
Accounting for Limited liability Companies:
Nature of Limited liability Companies, Public listed Companies
and Share market/share and loan capital, Distributable profits, Final
Accounts for internal and external use, Defining Statements of
Accounts, Interpretation of financial statements, Accounting ratios.
Accounting for Specialized Transactions:
Societies and associations, consignments, Branches, hire
purchase and credit sale, Leasing, investments, bill  of exchange,
long-term contracts, royalties, container accounts, foreign currency
transactions.
Application of Computers for accounting:
Types of Computer/Hardware and software, Computer
Operating  Software, Electronic Spreadsheets, Computer based
Accounting.
Subject No. 03 – Cost and Management Accounting
Cost Accounting, Financial Accounting and Management
Accounting, Purpose of Cost accounting. Accounting as a
management aid.
Material Cost:
Purchasing procedures, Store Routines, Methods of valuing
material issues, Incentive allowances, and  bonuses.
Labour Cost:
Time keeping, time allocations, methods of remuneration,
payment of incentive allowances and bonuses, Accounting for salaries
and wages.
Overhead Costs :
Allocation and apportionment of costs, Absorption methods,
Overhead administration and distribution, Selling  and  Distributions.
Integrated and non-integrated Accounts.
Cost control account, reconciliation of costs and financial
accounts, integral accounts.
Methods of Costing:
Contract Costing, Job Costing, Departmental Costing, Batch
Costing, Process Costing, Unit Costing, Services Costing, unrealized
profits under different methods of costing.
Marginal Costing:
Contributions/Sales, break-even charts, application of marginal
costing, accounting entries in marginal costing.
Standard Costing:
Standard Costs, actual Costs, basic variances, accounting
procedures.
Budgetary Control:
Functional budgets, master budgets, flexible budgetary control,
continuous budgeting, Operation of budgetary control.
Subject No. 4 - Public Financial Management
Legal framework of Public Finance
The Consolidated Fund, Special Law Expenditure, Contingencies
Fund, Public Debt. Foreign  aid, Fiscal Measures.
The Role of the Parliament, The Minister of Finance, The
Treasury, The Auditor General, Public Accounts Committee,
Committee on Public Enterprises, The Chief Accounting Officer,
Department of National Planning Monetary Board.
The Annual Appropriation Bill.
Budgetary System and Procedures, Annual estimates of Revenue
and Expenditure.
Budget Implementation
Organizational Structure for the implementation of the budget,
Revenue collection procedures, Imprest for making payments,
Supervision of financial operations, Delegation of functions,
Virement procedure, supplementary estimates, Budgetary control,
Procurement Procedure.
Government Accounting Systems and Procedures
Custody, security and control of Government properties,
Accounting for revenue and other receipts, Accounting for foreign
aid, Accounting for losses, waivers and write-offs.
Review :
Flash reports summary of monthly accounts, Review of financial
and physical performance, the annual appropriation account, The
Auditor General’s  report on the island’s accounts, the report of the
Public Accounts Committee, The report of the Committee on Public
Enterprises.

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'20
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.04.2012
732
Subject No. 5. Auditing and Investigation
The nature and objectives of auditing  -  The role of the Auditor
Internal audit, external audit, statutory – in relation to the
Government Departments, Ministries and Corporations Under the
Constitution of Sri Lanka and Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 relating
to Non-statutory-under companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 – Auditing
Standards, Auditing Opinions, Auditing concepts, Independence
and other  personal qualities of Auditor, Evidence, Truthfulness
and Fairness, Materialism, Audit Risk, Auditors Responsibilities,
Responsibilities of person subjected to Auditing.
Scope and Limitations
Determining  the Scope, Assumptions and limitations, Role of
Auditing standards and Guidelines.
The role of engagement letters, Management letters and
representation   letters, Basic auditing  methods and Evaluation of
internal control procedures.
Quantity Charts, Questionnaires
Audit Planning and Control
Audit Planning, timing, interim and final audits, assignment of
responsibilities for functions, Audit Control, Recording the work
done including the use of internal control, prepared questionnaires
and forms for evaluation of internal control.
Values, Concepts and Characteristics for financial auditing.
Its relevance to the Public Sector, Analytical auditing.
Auditing   of Computerized Accounting Systems – Auditing
Limited Companies
Statutory books, powers and duties of Directors, Divisional
profits, Appointment of auditors, wages and removals. Action to
be taken before accepting new Auditors,  Powers  and duties of
Auditors.
Nature  and  extent of inspections.
Compliance  inspections, independent inspections, Sample
techniques, Balance sheet verifications, Verification of income and
expenditure accounts.
Professional responsibilities of Auditors and Accountants
Professional conduct and ethics legal  rights  and responsibilities,
Legal responsibility of Accountant and Auditor and Law relating to
the subject of knowledge on incidents.
Investigations:
Planning the scope of investigations, Techniques and procedures
to be used, Examples of intention for conducting investigations,
Feasibility studies Evaluation of business institutions for the
purchase, Sale, Credit rating etc., Accountant’s and Auditor’s reports
for prospectus, Reporting activities, fraud investigations, Project
evaluations.
Reporting Functions
Reporting to the management about the weaknesses in the
internal control systems, special reporting functions relating to
Government and corporation audits, Reports for the prospectus,
Reports on investigations.
Subject No. 6 – General Intelligence and Comprehension
P
ART  ‘A’
COMPREHENSION
Questions will be asked from candidates based on a passage
given  in the comprehension question paper. Another passage is
given and the candidates have to summarize it to one third of  the
original number of words giving its prime meaning.
P
ART ‘B’
GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
Measuring the candidate’s comprehension and intelligence is
hereby expected through examining  the candidate’s and responses
related to the issues presented in a textual, numeral and pictorial
context. (This is composed of multiple choice and short answer
questions)
Note:-
(i) Term “a qualifying examination” in (b) and (c) above
refers to any of the examination referred to in para 5.
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of examination in one
and the same language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the medium
of the examination given in his application.
04–605
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.