

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2366$31 - 2024 ckjdß ui 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'01'12
No. 2366/31 -  friday,   JaNuary  12 ,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a - PG 6617 - 31 (01/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SERvICE   MINuTE    Of   ThE   SRI   LANkA   STATE   AuDIT  SERvICE
 
GiveN  below  is the Service Minute applicable to the Sri Lanka State audit Service established in terms of Section 30 (1) of 
the National audit act, No.19 of 2018 of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka, which replaces the Service Minute 
of the Sri Lanka audit Service published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 289/23 dated 20 March 1984 and the subsequent 
amendments made thereto and the Service Minute of the audit examiners Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary 
No.380/61 dated 20 december 1985 and the subsequent amendments made thereto.  as per the directive of the audit Service 
Commission,  
 Secretary,
 audit Service Commission.
12th January 2024
 
 1.  Effective Date
	 	 This	service	minute	shall	come	into	force	with	effect	from	2024.01.16
 2.  Details of the Appointing Authority
  2.1. appointing authority : audit Service Commission

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
2a
 3. Details of the Service Categories
  3.1 Service Categories and Grades 
 Service Category  Class / Grade
 Senior executive Special Grade
 executive
  Class i
  Class ii Grade i  
  Class ii Grade ii  
	 Field	/Office	Based	 Supra	Grade
  Class iii Grade i 
  Class iii Grade ii 
 3.2 Common Definition of the Functions Assigned
  in terms of functions incorporated in the overall duties to be performed by the auditor General in pursuance of 
the statutory powers vested in him by the Constitution of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka, the 
National audit act No.19 of 2018 and the other written laws incidental to the function of audit, determination 
of the scope of audit of all the institutions as stipulated by article 154(1) of  the Constitution of the democratic 
Socialist republic of Sri Lanka and Sections 3(1)(a), 41(2), 55 of the National audit act No.19 of 2018, 
compilation of audit policies, planning, implementing, monitoring audit and reporting, making decisions and 
assisting the Parliamentary Committee on Public accounts and the Committee on Public enterprises, assisting 
the Committee on Public accounts in provincial councils, all other functions directly Cumming under the  duties 
of the profession of audit and all the responsibilities entrusted by article 154(3) of the Constitution of the 
democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka
 4. Nature of the Posts   : 
These posts are permanent and pensionable and will be subject to the policy 
decisions that may be taken by the Government on the pension scheme in 
due course.
 5. Salary
 Class / Grade Salary Code  Salary Scale
  No/Basic  Rs.
  Salary Step
 
Special Grade in the Sri Lanka State audit Service aS-04-a
  93,400-12x2,700-125,800
Class i  in the Sri Lanka State audit Service   aS-03-a
 (Step 20)  
  50,285-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170-113,565
Class ii Grade i  in the Sri Lanka State audit Service aS-03-a
 (Step 12) 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
3a
 Class / Grade Salary Code  Salary Scale
  No/Basic  Rs.
  Salary Step
Class ii Grade ii  in the Sri Lanka State audit Service aS-03-a
 (Step 01) 
Class iii Supra Grade  in the Sri Lanka State audit  aS-02-a 45,355-11x755-18x1,030-72,200
 Service
 
Class iii Grade i  in the Sri Lanka State audit Service aS-01-a
 (Step 12)  37,905-10x660-11x755-15x930-66,760
Class iii Grade ii  in the Sri Lanka State audit Service aS-01-a
 (Step 01) 
 6. Posts belong to service categories
           6.1.  Approved Designations, Approved Number of Posts, Grades and the Number of Combined Posts. 
 Designation Class/ Grade belongs  Number of Posts Number of
  to the Post  Combined Posts
Senior deputy auditor General Special Grade 03
 
deputy auditor General Special Grade 15
 
Senior assistant auditor General Class i 72
 
assistant auditor General Class ii Grade i  455
Superintendent of audit Class ii Grade ii
  
assistant Superintendent of audit Supra Grade 360
 
Audit	Officer	 Class	III	Grade		I	 	 1090
 Class iii Grade  ii   
 6.2 Number of Combined Posts
 6.2.1. The number of combined posts for Class iii Grade ii and Class iii  Grade i is 1090. 
 6.2.2. The number of combined posts for Class ii Grade ii and Class ii Grade i is 455.
 6.2.3. The Class iii Grade ii and the Class iii Grade i are deemed to come under the number of combined posts for the 
purpose of grade promotions.
 6.2.4.  The all the Grades, Class ii Grade ii, Class ii Grade i and Class i are deemed to come under the number of 
combined posts only for the purpose of grade promotions.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
4a
 7.  Method of Recruitment
  7.1 Percentage of Recruitment 
 Class / Grade Stream  Percentage
					Class	III	Grade	II	–	Audit	Officer	 Open	 100%
		 	 Class	II	Grade	II	–	Superintendent	of	 Audit		 Seniority			 50%
	 	 	 Limited	 40%
	 	 	 Direct	 10%
	 		 Class	I	-	Senior	Assistant	Auditor	General	 Direct	 10%
 Special Grade-  deputy auditor General  direct Only two posts from the approved 
    number of posts.
  
  Note 01
	 	 Subject	to	a	maximum	of	10	percent	of	the	vacancies	of	the	post	of	the	Audit	Officer,	selection	will	be	made	either	
from the candidates who possess a degree with the subjects related to Taxation, information Technology/ Computer 
Science or the candidates who possess a degree with a main subject that may be determined by the audit Service 
Commission taking into account the timely need. The number of recruitments to be made from each of the above 
categories will be decided, as appropriate, by the audit Service Commission in the exigencies of the service. in case 
of	failure	to	fulfill	the	required	qualifications	by	a	sufficient	number	of	candidates	in	relation	to	these	10	percent	
vacancies,	these	vacancies	will	also	be	filled	by	the	other	candidates	who	satisfy	the	required	qualifications.	
  in the event of calling for applications, applicants are required to indicate their applicable stream in consecutive order, 
and under no circumstance shall permission be given to change the sequence. 
  Note  02
  The number of vacancies as at the date of publication of the recruitments shall be deemed to consider as the number 
of vacancies relating to the purpose of recruitment.
  Note 03
	 	 All	the	officers	in	the	Audit	Examiners	Service	and	the	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	who	express	their	interest	in	joining	
the	service	of	the	National	Audit	Office	as	of	the	date	of	enforcement	of	this	service	minute	shall	be	deemed	officers	in	
the Sri Lanka State audit Service and their previous period of service shall be included in the period of service of the 
Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	in	relation	to	all	matters	specified	in	this	service	minute.	In	the	promotion	to	a	certain	
grade,	the	active	and	satisfactory	period	of	service	completed	by	the	officer	concerned	prior	to	the	date	on	which	this	
service	minute	came	into	effect	shall	be	considered	as	incorporated	in	his	previous	period	of	service.	

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
5a
7.2 Recruitment
7.2.1. The Grade to which recruitment is made: Class III Grade II of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service (Open stream)
7.2.1.1   Qualifications
7.2.1.1.1. Educational Qualifications
7.2.1.1.1. (a)
Shall have obtained a following degree inclusive of accountancy or auditing as a main subject from a university or an 
institute for awarding degrees recognized by the university Grants Commission.
A	degree	related	to	Accountancy,	Commerce,	Business	/	State	Management	
or,
Shall	have	passed	the	examination	of	Licentiate	II	or	Intermediate	level,	or	Accountancy	or	Business	Certificate	II,	or	
Business	Level	or	Business	Level	II	or	above	examination	of	the	Institute	Charted	Accountants	of	Sri	Lanka	
or,
Shall	have	passed	an	examination	of	Management	Level	or	above	examination	of	the	Institute	of	Certified	Management	
accountants of Sri Lanka
or,
Shall have obtained a Higher diploma or Higher National diploma in accountancy or Commerce in Sri Lanka Technical 
College/ Sri Lanka institute of advanced Technological education/ Sri Lanka Higher institute of Technology
or,
7.2.1.1.1. (b)
Shall have obtained a following degree from a university or an institute for awarding degrees recognized by the university 
Grants Commission.
Taxation/information Technology/Computer Science/Computer engineering Science/Computer Technology
7.2.1.1.2 Professional Qualifications : Not applicable
7.2.1.1.3 Experience    : Not applicable.
7.2.1.1.4 Physical fitness 																 :	Shall	be	physically	fit	and	mentally	sound	to	duly	perform	the	duties	of	the		
       post as well as to serve in any part of Sri Lanka. 
7.2.1.1.5 Other  
 
 i. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii. Should possess an excellent moral character.
 iii. Shall not be a clergy of a religion.
	IV.	 Shall	have	satisfied	all	the	qualifications	as	at	the	closing	date	of	the	application	as	specified	in	the	notice	of	calling	for	
application.
 
7.2.1.2.  Age 
        7.2.1.2.1. Minimum Age Limit: 22 Years
        7.2.1.2.2. Maximum Age Limit: 28 Years
The maximum age limit applicable to the applicants in the Public Service is 45 years.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
6a
7.2.1.3. Method of Recruitment  
          7.2.1.3.1. Written Competitive Examination (Syllabus - Appendix 1)
 Subject Maximum Mark Pass Mark
 iQ 100 40
 Creative, analytical and Communication Skills 100 40
 financial accountancy 100 40
 audit 100 40
 Knowledge of information and Communication  100 40
 Technology 
  
 aptitude test on information and Communication  100 40
 Technology Management  
Note  04 
applicants who make applications under 7.2.1.1.1. (a) shall appear for 03 question papers including at least one of the two 
subjects of financial accountancy and auditing including iQ  
Note 05
applicants who make applications under 7.2.1.1.1. (b) shall appear for 03 question papers including iQ.
7.2.1.3.2. Conducting Authority: Commissioner General of examinations
7.2.1.3.3. Professional Test : Not applicable
7.2.1.3.4. General Interview: 
The	general	interview	will	be	conducted	only	for	the	purpose	of	ascertaining	whether	the	applicants	have	satisfied	the	
requirements referred to in paragraphs 7.2.1.1. and 7.2.1.2. The number of applicants to be called for the interview will 
be determined by the audit Service Commission, as appropriate, taking into account the order of the marks scored by the 
applicant for the written examination and the number of relevant vacancies.
7.2.1.3.5. Appointing Authority of the Interview Board   : audit Service Commission
7.2.1.3.6. Structured Interview      : Not applicable.
7.2.1.3.7. Method of Calling for Applications:
Applications	will	be	called	for	through	a	notification	published	in	the	Gazette of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri 
Lanka	and	the	website	of	the	National	Audit	Office.
Note  06
Audit	Officers	recruited	to	Class	II	Grade	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	shall	be	subject	to	a	one-year	compulsory	
training period.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
7a
7.2.2 The Grade to which recruitment is made : Class ii Grade ii of the Sri Lanka State audit Service (On Seniority) 
7.2.2.1.   Qualifications
7.2.2.1.1  Educational Qualifications : Not applicable.
7.2.2.1.2 .  Professional Qualification  : Not applicable 
7.2.2.1.3.   Experience 	 :		Shall	be	an	officer	in	Class	III	of	Supra	Grade	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State								
                                              audit  Service. 
 
7.2.2.1.4.  Physical fitness  : Not applicable.
7.2.2.1.5. Other:
 i.  Shall have proved a performance at least at a satisfactory level during the period of 05 years immediately 
preceding	the	closing	date	of	applications	as	specified	in	the	notice	of	calling	for	application	and	obtained	05	
increments relating to the said period.
 ii. Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment (Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation 
and	definition	12.	(v).
	 III.	 Shall	 have	passed	the	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	of	Class	III		of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	on	the	due	
date.
	 IV.	 Shall	have	acquired	the	competency	in	the	other	official	language	at	the	prescribed	level.
	 V.	 Shall	 have	satisfied	all	the	qualifications	as	at	the	closing	date	of	the	application	as	specified	in	the	notice	of	
calling for application. 
7.2.2.2.  Age :  Not applicable 
7.2.2.3.  Method of Recruitment  :  On the seniority 
7.2.2.3.1 Written Examination  :  Not applicable
7.2.2.3.2. Professional Test :  Not applicable
7.2.2.3.3. General Interview  :  The general interview will be conducted solely for the purpose of ascertaining 
whether	the	applicants	have	satisfied	the	requirements	referred	to	in	paragraph	7.2.2.1.		The	number	of	applicants	to	be	
called for the interview will be determined by the audit Service Commission, as appropriate, taking into account the order 
of the marks scored by the applicant for the written examination and the number of relevant vacancies.    
7.2.2.3.4. Appointing Authority of the Interview Board  : audit Service Commission
7.2.2.3.5. Structured Interview     : Not applicable.
7.2.2.3.6. Method of Calling for Applications: 
Applications	will	be	called	for	through	a	notification	published	on	the	website	of	the	National	Audit	Office	and	the	internal	
circulars	of	the	National	Audit	Office.
7.2.3. The Grade to which recruitment is made: Class ii Grade ii of the Sri Lanka State audit Service  (recruitment on 
Limited basis)    
7.2.3.1.   Qualifications
7.2.3.1.1. Educational Qualification: Not applicable
7.2.3.1.2. Professional Qualification: Not applicable

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
8a
7.2.3.1.3. Experience  : 
	 I.	 Shall	be	an	officer	confirmed	in	Class	III	of	Grade	II	of	the	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	who	is	qualified	from	
the	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	on	the	due	date	and	completed	an	active	and	satisfactory	period	of	service	of	05	years.
   or
	 II.	 An	officer	in	Class	III	Grade	I	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service.
7.2.3.1.4. Physical fitness: Not applicable.
7.2.3.1.5. Other: 
 i. Shall have proved a performance at least at a satisfactory level during the period of 05 years immediately preceding 
the	closing	date	of	applications	as	specified	in	the	notice	of	calling	for	application	and	earned	05	increments	relating	
to that period. 
 ii. Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment (Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and 
definition	12(v).	
	 III.	 Shall	have	acquired	the	competency	in	the	other	official	language	at	the	prescribed	level.
	 IV.	 Shall	have	satisfied	all	the	qualifications	as	at	the	closing	date	of	the	application	as	specified	in	the	notice	of	calling	for	
application. 
7.2.3.2. Age  : Not applicable
7.2.3.3. Method of Recruitment 
7.2.3.3.1. Written Competitive Examination (Syllabus - Appendix 2)
 Subject Maximum Mark Pass Mark 
 Public Sector accounting and reporting 100 40
 Public Sector audit 100 40
 Legal and regulatory framework 100 40
 audit Case Study  100 40
 information and Communication Technology and e-Government
 Question Paper i- Multiple choice questions 40 16
 Question Paper ii - essay type questions 60 24
																					Passing	any	three	subjects	out	of	the	above	mentioned	subjects	is	deemed	sufficient.
7.2.3.3.2. Conducting Authority :  Commissioner General of examinations 
7.2.3.3.3. Professional Test :  Not applicable.
7.2.3.3.4.  General Interview  : The general interview will be conducted solely for the purpose of ascertaining 
whether	the	applicants	have	satisfied	the	requirements	referred	to	in	paragraph	7.2.3.1.		 The	number	of	
applicants to be called for the interview will be determined by the audit Service Commission, as appropriate, 
taking into account the order of the marks scored by the applicant for the written examination and the number 
of relevant vacancies.
7.2.3.3.5. Appointing Authority of the Interview Board  : audit Service Commission
7.2.3.3.6. Structured Interview: Not applicable.
7.2.3.3.7. Method of Calling for Applications:	 Applications	will	be	called	for	through	a	notification	published	on	the	
website	of	the	National	Audit	Office	and	the	internal	circulars	of	the	National	Audit	Office.								

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
9a
7.2.4. The Grade to which recruitment is made: Class ii Grade ii of the Sri Lanka State audit Service. (recruitment based 
on the direct Stream)
  after the publication of advertisements for not more than 10 percent of the approved cadre for the post of Superintendent 
of	Audit,	Class	II	Grade	II	in	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	and	solicitation	of	applications	from	the	qualified	
applicants, recruitments will be made by the audit Service Commission upon the recommendations of a structured 
interview board appointed by the audit Service Commission.      
 
7.2.4.1.  Qualifications
7.2.4.1.1. Professional Qualification : Shall have obtained the associate membership of the institute of Chartered 
accountants of Sri Lanka or institute of Chartered Management accountants of the united Kingdom, or be an 
attorney-at-Law sworn in the Supreme Court.
7.2.4.1.2. Educational Qualifications   : Not applicable.
 
7.2.4.1.3. Experience     : Not applicable.
7.2.4.1.4. Physical fitness 														 :	Shall	be	physically	fit	and	mentally	sound	to	duly	perform	the	duties	of	the	
post as well as to serve in any part of Sri Lanka. 
7.2.4.1.5. Other : 
   
 i. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii. Should possess an excellent moral character.
 iii. Shall not be a clergy of a religion.
	 IV.	 Shall	have	satisfied	all	the	qualifications	as	at	the	closing	date	of	the	application	as	specified	in	the	notice	of	calling	for	
application. 
7.2.4.2. Age 
7.2.4.2.1. Minimum Age  Limit   : 22 years
7.2.4.2.2. Maximum Age Limit :  35 years 
	 	 		 	 The	maximum	age	limit	is	not	applicable	to	the	officers	in	the	Public	Service.
Note 07  
in making recruitments for the posts in Class ii Grade ii of the State audit Service upon the direct stream, the audit Service 
Commission shall have the powers to recruit attorneys-at- Law sworn in the Supreme Court, where necessary, in exigencies 
of	the	service.	Those	who	are	thus	recruited	shall	have	satisfied	the	other	basic	qualifications	specified	in	Paragraph	7.2.4.1.5.
7.2.4.3. Method of Recruitment 
  
after the publication of advertisements for not more than 10 percent of the approved cadre for the post of Superintendent of 
audit, Class ii Grade ii in the Sri Lanka State audit Service and solicitation of applications from the applicants who have 
satisfied	the	professional	qualifications	referred	to	in	Paragraph	7.2.4.1.1,	recruitments	will	be	made	by	the	Audit	Service	
Commission upon the recommendations of a structured interview board appointed by the audit Service Commission.         
7.2.4.3.1. Written Examination  : Not applicable.
7.2.4.3.2. Professional Test  : Not applicable.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
10a
7.2.4.3.3. Structured Interview  : 
recruitment will be based on the order of the marks scored at a structured interview conducted in accordance with the 
marking scheme (appendix 03) approved by the audit Service Commission subject to the following criteria. 
 Main areas considered in allocating marks Maximum Marks
Additional	Educational	Qualifications	 25
Additional	Professional	Qualifications	 20
Experience	in	the	relevant	field	of	the	post	 40
Qualifications	in	the	field	of	Information	Technology/	Computer	Skills.	 05
Performance demonstrated at the interview. 10
Total 100
7.2.4.3.4. Appointing Authority of the Structured Interview Board  : audit Service Commission
7.2.4.3.5. General Interview: Not applicable.
7.2.4.3.6. Method of Calling for Applications:	 Applications	will	be	called	for	through	a	notification	published	in	the	
Gazette	of	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	and	on	the	website	of	the	National	Audit	Office.
Note 08     
	 	 Only	the	applicants	who	meet	the	requirements	specified	in	Paragraphs	7.2.4.1.	and	7.2.4.2	will	be	considered	for	
recruitment, and therefore, the minimum marks required for the selection are not applicable. recruitments will be 
based on the order of the overall marks scored by applicants in the structured interview, in accordance with the number 
of	vacancies	available.	No	marks	will	be	allocated	for	the	basic	qualification	required	for	recruitment.
Note 09
  The Superintendents of audit recruited to the Class ii Grade ii of the Sri Lanka State audit Service on a limited basis, 
through seniority and the direct stream will be subject to a compulsory 06-months training period.  
7.2.5. The Grade to which recruitment is made : The post of Senior assistant auditor General, Class i of the Sri Lanka 
State audit Service (recruitment based on the direct Stream)
  after the publication of advertisements for not more than 10 percent of the approved cadre for the post of Senior 
assistant auditor General, Class i of the Sri Lanka State audit Service and solicitation of applications from the 
applicants	who	have	satisfied	the	following	qualifications,	recruitments	will	be	made	by	the	Audit	Service	Commission	
upon the recommendations of a structured interview board appointed by the audit Service Commission. in the event 
of	insufficient	number	of	applicants	meeting	these	qualifications,	the	Commission	will	make	decision	as	appropriate	
regarding	the	filling	of	the	remaining	vacancies.					
7.2.5.1.    Qualifications
7.2.5.1.1. Educational Qualifications  : Not applicable.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
11 a
7.2.5.1.2. Professional Qualifications  : Shall have obtained the associate membership of the institute of Chartered 
accountants of Sri Lanka or institute of Chartered Management accountants of the united Kingdom,
  or 
		 	 Be	a	Chartered	Civil	Engineer.
7.2.5.1.3. Experience : for external applicants, twelve years (12) of service experience at the executive level in the 
relevant	field	after	obtaining	the	relevant	professional	qualification,		
or,
 for applicants within the Sri Lanka State audit Service, twelve years (12) of service experience in an 
executive level post. 
7.2.5.1.4. Physical fitness:	 Shall	be	physically	fit	and	mentally	sound	to	duly	perform	the	duties	of	the	post	as	well	as	
to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.    
7.2.5.1.5.        Other:
 i. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka 
 ii. Should possess an excellent moral character.
 iii. Shall not be a clergy of a religion.
	 IV.	 Shall	 have	satisfied	all	the	qualifications	as	at	the	closing	date	of	the	application	as	specified	in	the	notice	of	
calling for application.   
7.2.5.2.        Age : 
7.2.5.2.1.      Minimum Age  Limit                 : 35 years
7.2.5.2.2.      Maximum Age Limit    : 45 years
The	maximum	age	limit	is	not	applicable	to	the	officers	in	the	Public	Service.
7.2.5.3.        Method of Recruitment 
7.2.5.3.1.      Written Examination   : Not applicable.
7.2.5.3.2.      Professional Test   : Not applicable.
7.2.5.3.3. Structured Interview  : 
 recruitment will be based on the order of the marks scored at a structured interview conducted in accordance 
with the marking scheme (appendix 03) approved by the audit Service Commission, subject to the following 
criteria. 
 Main areas considered in allocating marks Maximum Marks
Additional	Educational	Qualifications	 	 	 	 	 25
Additional	Professional	Qualifications	 	 	 	 	 20
Experience	in	the	relevant	field	of	the	post		 	 	 	 	 40
Qualifications	in	the	field	of	Information	Technology/	Computer	Skills.	 	 	 	 05
Performance demonstrated at the interview     10
Total     100

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
12a
7.2.5.3.4. Appointing Authority of the Structured Interview Board  : audit Service Commission
7.2.5.3.5. General Interview : Not applicable.
7.2.5.3.6. Method of Calling for Applications:	 Applications	will	be	called	for	through	a	notification	published	in	the	
Gazette	of	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	and	on	the	website	of	the	National	Audit	Office.
  Note 10
	 	 Only	the	applicants	who	meet	the	requirements	specified	in	Paragraphs	7.2.5.1.	and	7.2.5.2.	will	be	considered	for	
recruitment, and therefore, the minimum marks required for the selection are not applicable. recruitments will be 
based on the order of the overall marks scored by applicants in the structured interview, in accordance with the number 
of	vacancies	available.	No	marks	will	be	allocated	for	the	basic	qualification	required	for	recruitment.
          Note 11   
  in the recruitment for the posts of Senior assistant auditor General under the direct stream, only one post will be 
allocated to Chartered Civil engineers. There should always be only one Chartered Civil engineer in the actual cadre 
of	the	National	Audit	Office.
7.2.6. The Grade to which recruitment is made : The post of deputy auditor General in the Special Grade of the Sri Lanka 
State audit Service (recruitment based on the direct Stream)
  after the publication of advertisements only for two (2) posts out of the approved cadre for the post of deputy auditor 
General in the Special Grade of the Sri Lanka State audit Service and solicitation of applications from the applicants 
who	have	satisfied	the	following	qualifications,	recruitments	will	be	made	by	the	Audit	Service	Commission	upon	the	
recommendations of a structured interview board appointed by the audit Service Commission. 
7.2.6.1.  Qualifications  
7.2.6.1.1.  Educational Qualification  : Shall have obtained a postgraduate degree relevant to accountancy, audit, 
Commerce, Public finance, economics, Management, Law, engineering or information Technology from a 
university/ institute for awarding degrees recognized by the university Grants Commission. 
  and 
7.2.6.1.2. Professional Qualification : Shall have obtained the associate membership of the institute of Chartered 
accountants of Sri Lanka or institute of Chartered Management accountants of the united Kingdom.
7.2.6.1.3. Experience  : for external applicants, twelve years (12) of service experience at the executive level in the 
relevant	field	after	obtaining	the	relevant	professional	qualification,		
or,
 for applicants within the Sri Lanka State audit Service, twelve years (12) of service experience in an 
executive level post. 
7.2.6.1.4 Physical fitness :	 Shall	be	physically	fit	and	mentally	sound	to	duly	perform	the	duties	of	the	post	as	well	as	
to serve in any part of Sri Lanka. 
7.2.6.1.5.   Other :
 i. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka 
 ii. Should possess an excellent moral character.
 iii. Shall not be a clergy of a religion.
	 IV.	 Shall	have	satisfied	all	the	qualifications	as	at	the	closing	date	of	the	application	as	specified	in	the	notice	of	calling	for	
application. 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
13a
7.2.6.2. Age :
7.2.6.2.1. Minimum Age Limit     :  Not applicable.
7.2.6.2.2. Maximum Age Limit  :  45 years
				 The	maximum	age	limit	is	not	applicable	to	the	officers	in	the	Public	Service.
7.2.6.3. Method of Recruitment
7.2.6.3.1. Written Examination  : Not applicable.
7.2.6.3.2. Professional Test   : Not applicable.
7.2.6.3.3. Structured Interview : recruitment will be based on the order of the marks scored at a structured interview 
conducted in accordance with the marking scheme (appendix 03)  approved by the audit Service Commission, 
subject to the following criteria.
 
 Main areas considered in allocating marks Maximum  
  Marks
Additional	Educational	Qualifications	 25
Additional	Professional	Qualifications	 20
Experience	in	the	relevant	field	of	the	post		 40
Qualifications	in	the	field	of	Information	Technology/	Computer	Skills	 05
Performance demonstrated at the interview 10
Total 100
7.2.6.3.4. Appointing Authority of the Structured Interview Board  : audit Service Commission
7.2.6.3.5. General Interview: Not applicable.
7.2.6.3.6. Method of Calling for Applications:	 Applications	will	be	called	for	through	a	notification	published	in	the	
Gazette	of	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	and	on	the	website	of	the	National	Audit	Office.
Note  12
	 	 The	recruitment	made	under	this	stream	within	the	actual	cadre	in	the	Special	Grade	of	the	National	Audit	Office	shall	
not	exceed	two	officers	in	any	case.
8.  Efficiency Bar Examination and Confirmation in the Service

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
14a
		8.1	 Details	of	the	Efficiency	Bar	Examinations	are	as	follows.
 Which of the Efficiency Bars Period Allowed to  Nature of the Efficiency
  Pass the Efficiency  Bar Examination
  Bar Examination
 
	 Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for		officers		 Prior	to	03	years	after	 Written	Examination,	
 in Class iii Grade ii of Sri Lanka State being appointed appendix-4
 audit Service. to Class iii Grade ii
	 Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	officers		 Prior	to	03	years	after	 Written	Examination,
 in Class iii Grade i of the Sri Lanka State  being appointed appendix -5
 audit Service to Class iii Grade i 
	 First	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	officers		 Prior	to	03	years	after	 Written	Examination,
 in Class ii of the Sri Lanka State  being appointed appendix -6
 audit Service. to Class ii Grade ii
	 	 	 Prior	to	03	years	after	 Written	Examination,
   being  promoted  appendix -7
   to Class ii Grade i.
	 Efficiency	Bar	examination	for	officers		 Prior	to	05	years	after	 Written	Examination,
 in Class i of the Sri Lanka State  being recruited or   appendix -8
 audit Service  promoted to Class i.  
 8.2 Recurrence of conducting the Efficiency Bar Examination: 
  Twice a year
 8.3 Efficiency Bar Examinations 
    8.3.1. Conducting Authority: Commissioner General of examinations
 9 Language Competency
  9.1. Official Language Competency: 
	 	 Officers	appointed	to	the	service	in	English	medium,	should	acquire	competency	in	either	of	the	official	languages	of	
Sinhala or Tamil. The required level of competency includes, gaining a pass in G.C.e.(O.L) examination with Sinhala/
Tamil language as a main subject (not as a secondary or optional language), passing an oral examination conducted 
by	the	Department	of	Official	Languages,	or	passing	a	specific	examination	conducted	by	the	Department	of	Official	
Languages.
  9.2. Competency in other official languages 
	 	 Officers	who	have	gained	the	official	language	competency	as	per	provisions	of	Circulars	before	this	Service	Minute	
came	into	effect,	shall	be	deemed	to	have	fulfilled	this	requirement.	Once	this	Service	Minute	came	into	effect,	
competency	in	official	languages	should	be	gained	in	accordance	with	Public	Administration	Circular	Nos.	1/2014	&	
18/2020 and other Circulars incidental thereto. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
15a
 
 Level of Competency  Language Competency
 to be Achieved
  Medium of Appointment Official Language for which 
   Competency should be Gained
The relevant level of language 
competency should be gained  Sinhala Tamil
in terms of Public administration  
Circular No. 18/2020 and other  Tamil Sinhala
Circulars incidental thereto.  
    
	 	 		 English	 The	official	language	except	for	the	one	for		
   which competency has been gained under  
   Sub-section 9.1.
  Note 13
	 	 An	officer	appointed	through	open	or	limited	streams	shall	be	subject	to	a	probationary	period	of	03	years.	In	case	
that	performance,	attendance	and	conduct	of	an	officer	during	his	period	of	probation	are	recommended	by	the	Head	
of	Institution	as	being	satisfactory;	the	Efficiency	Bar	Examinations	have	been	passed	within	specified	periods;	
competency	in	an	official	language	has	been	gained	as	per	Public	Administration	Circular	No.	18/2020	and	other	
relevant	Circulars	had	the	officer	been	appointed	in	a	medium	other	than	an	official	language;	and,	the	certificate	has	
been	obtained	by	completing	the	induction	training,	such	an	officer	shall	be	confirmed	in	service	after	the	period	of	
probation. 
 10 Promoting into Grades
  10.1. Promotion from Class iii Grade ii to Class iii Grade i
  10.1.1. Qualifications Required 
 i. Permanently appointed to Class iii Grade ii of the Sri Lanka State audit Service.
 ii. at least a 10 year satisfactory service in the post of Class iii Grade ii should be completed with ten (10) salary 
increments	earned.	Performance	within	the	five	(05)	years	immediately	prior	to	the	date	of	promotion	should	be	
satisfactory in accordance with the approved performance appraisal. 
 iii. Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment. (Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and 
Definition	12(V)	)
	 IV.	 Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	officers	of	the	Class	III	Grade	II	in	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	should	be	passed	by	
the	date	specified.	
	 V.	 Gaining	competency	in	the	other	official	language	of	the	relevant	level.
	 VI.		Level	IV	of	skills	improvement	as	mentioned	in	16.2(a)	has	been	completed	with	certificate	received.	
10.1.2. Method of Promotions
	 	 All	the	officers	qualified	as	mentioned	in	Sub-section	10.1.1,	shall	be	promoted	to	Class	III	Grade	I	by	the	Audit	
Service	Commission	after	verifying	such	qualifications.	
10.2. Promoting from Class III Grade I to the Supra Grade of Class III

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
16a
10.2.1. Qualifications Required
	 I.	 An	officer	of	Class	III	Grade	I.
 ii. Completion of a active and satisfactory service within the 05 year period immediately prior to the last date of receiving 
applications mentioned in the notice calling for application, and salary increments should be earned during the same 
period. 
 iii. Higher or satisfactory performance within the period of 05 years immediately prior to the last date of receiving 
applications mentioned in the notice calling for applications.
iv .  Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment. (Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and 
Definition	12(V)	)
10.2.2. Procedure of Promotions 
Applications	shall	be	called	from	qualified	officers	as	mentioned	in	Sub-section	10.2.1,	and	with	their	qualifications	verified,	
those	officers	shall	be	promoted	to	Supra	Grade	of	Class	III,	based	on	seniority	by	the	Audit	Service	Commission.	
10.3.  Promoting Officers of Class II Grade II to Class II Grade I
10.3.1. Qualifications Required 
	 I.	 Should	be	confirmed	in	service.
 ii. Completion of a active and satisfactory service of 06 years in Class ii Grade ii with 06 salary increments earned.
	 III.	 Performance	within	the	five	(05)	years	immediately	prior	to	the	date	of	promotion	should	be	satisfactory	in	accordance	
with the approved performance appraisal.
 iv .  Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment. ( Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation 
and	Definition	12.(V)	)
	 V.	 The	first	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	Class	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	should	be	passed	within	the	
specified	period.	
	 VI.	 Competency	in	other	official	language	of	the	relevant	level	should	be	gained.	
	VII.	 Completion	of	Level	III	of	skills	improvement	as	mentioned	in	16.2	(b)	with	certificate	received.	
 
10.3.2. Method of Promotions 
Officers	qualified	as	per	Sub-section	10.3.1	shall	be	promoted	to	Class	II	Grade	I	by	the	Audit	Service	Commission	after	
verifying	the	qualifications.	
10.4.  Promoting from Class II Grade I to Class I
10.4.1. Qualifications Required
	 I.	 A	postgraduate	qualification	received	from	a	University/degree	awarding	institution	approved	by	the	University	Grants	
Commission with respect to the subjects such as, accountancy, auditing, Public finance, economics, Management, 
Law or information Technology or other subjects decided by the audit Service Commission; or, associate membership 
of the institute of Chartered accountants of Sri Lanka or Chartered institute of Management accountants, uK.
 ii. Completion of a satisfactory service of 06 years in Class ii Grade i of Sri Lanka State audit Service with 06 salary 
increments earned.
	 III.	 Performance	within	the	five	(05)	years	immediately	prior	to	the	date	of	promotion	should	be	satisfactory	in	accordance	
with the approved performance appraisal
 iv .  Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment (Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and 
Definition	12.(V)	)

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
17a
	 V.	 The	second	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	the	officers	of	Class	II	in	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	should	be	passed	
by	the	date	specified.	
	 VI.	 Completion	of	Level	II	of	skills	improvement	as	mentioned	in	16.2	(c)	with	certificate	received.
10.4.2 Method of Promotions
Officers	qualified	as	per	Sub-section	10.4.1	shall	be	promoted	to	Grade	I	by	the	Audit	Service	Commission	after	verifying	
the	qualifications.
10.5 Promoting from Class I to Special Grade
10.5.1. Qualifications Required
 i. Completion of a active and satisfactory service of 05 years in Class i of Sri Lanka State audit Service, and successful 
completion of a service period not less than 18 years in Sri Lanka State audit Service or other service of executive 
level
 ii. five (05) salary increments should be earned within the service in Class i. 
	 III.	 Performance	within	the	five	(05)	years	immediately	prior	to	the	date	of	promotion	should	be	satisfactory	in	accordance	
with the approved performance appraisal.
 iv . Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment. (Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and 
Definition	12.(V)	)
	 V.	 Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	officers	of	the	Class	I		in	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	should	be	passed	by	the	date	
specified.
	 VI.	 Completion	of	Level	I	of	skills	improvement	as	mentioned	in	16.2(d)	with	certificate	received.
	VII.	 An	officer,	directly	recruited,	should	be	confirmed	in	his	service,	and	postgraduate	qualifications	mentioned	in	
10.4.1(i), should be completed.
10.5.2. Procedure of Promotions
Qualifications	of	officers,	eligible	as	per	Sub-section	10.5.1,	will	be	verified	by	a	Board	of	Interview	appointed	by	the	Audit	
Service	Commission,	and	the	qualified	officers	shall	be	promoted	to	the	supra	grade	in	the	order	of	seniority	based	on	the	
number of vacancies.
11 Appointment to the Posts 
11.1
 Designation  Class / Grade of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service Relevant to the Post 
Audit	Officer	 Class	III	Grade	II	or	Class	III	Grade	I	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service.
assistant Superintendent of audit Supra Grade of Class iii of the  Sri Lanka State audit Service.
Superintendent of audit Class ii Grade ii of the  Sri Lanka State audit Service.
assistant auditor General Class ii Grade i of the  Sri Lanka State audit Service.
Senior assistant auditor General Class i of the  Sri Lanka State audit Service.
deputy auditor General Special Grade of the  Sri Lanka State audit Service.
Senior deputy auditor General Special Grade of the Sri Lanka State audit Service (deputy auditor General) 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
18a
11.2. Method of Selection
 i. Senior assistant auditor General - in case of vacancies in the posts of Senior assistant auditor General of Sri Lanka 
State	Audit	Service,	officers	of	Class	I	shall	be	appointed	to	such	posts	by	the	Audit	Service	Commission	based	on	
seniority.
 ii. deputy auditor General - in case of vacancies in the posts of deputy auditor General of Sri Lanka State audit 
Service,	officers	of	special	Grade	shall	be	appointed	to	such	posts	by	the	Audit	Service	Commission.
 iii. Senior deputy auditor General - in case of vacancies in the posts of Senior deputy auditor General of special Grade 
of	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service,	officers	of	special	Grade	with	a	satisfactory	service	in	the	post	of	Deputy	Auditor	
General shall be appointed to such posts based on seniority by the audit Service Commission.
12  Interpretations and Definitions
	 i.	 		“Gazette”	means	the	Gazette	Notification	of	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka.
 ii. “Commission” means the audit Service Commission appointed in terms of provisions of article 153 (a) of the 
Constitution of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka. 
	 iii.	 “Active	period	of	service”	means	the	period	in	which	an	officer	is	actually	employed	in	his	service	receiving	salaries	
relevant	to	the	post.	Periods	of	no-pay	leave	specifically	stated	by	the	Cabinet	of	Ministers	to	be	considered	as	active	
period	of	service	as	a	policy,	and	a	period	in	which	an	officer	is	released	to	a	post	external	to	the	Government	
service	based	on	requirement	of	the	Government	other	than	being	requested	by	the	officer	himself	or	a	period	spent	
on	secondment,	shall	be	considered	as	an	active	period	of	service.	Nevertheless,	in	case	of	a	certain	officer	being	
acquitted on all the charges following a formal disciplinary inquiry / court proceeding, after being interdicted or sent 
on compulsory leave, such a period spent under interdiction or compulsory leave, shall be considered for the active 
period	of	service.	Furthermore,	the	period	in	which	an	officer	has	discharged	the	duties	relating	to	the	post	by	receiving	
salaries under that post, shall also be considered in determining his active period of service for that post. 
	 iv.		Unless	otherwise	stated	specifically,	the	term	“Service”	means	the	Sri	Lanka	Sate	Audit	Service.	
	 v.	 “Gaining	eligibility	due	to	not	being	subject	to	any	disciplinary	punishment”	means	that	an	officer	shall	be	deemed	
ineligible to be promoted in Grades following vacancies, or recruited under limited or merit streams (experience in 
service)	as	per	the	Scheme	of	Recruitment	and	Service	Minutes	for	a	period	of	05	years	from	the	date	of	such	an	officer	
being	subject	to	disciplinary	punishment		relating	to	an	offence	mentioned	in	First	Schedule	of	Chapter	XLVIII	of	the	
Establishments	Code;	for	a	period	of	02	years	from	the	date	of	such	an	officer	being	subject	to	disciplinary	punishment	 	
relating	to	an	offence	mentioned	in	Second	Schedule	of	Chapter	XLVIII	of	the	Establishments	Code;	and	for	a	period	
of	one	year	from	the	date	of	such	an	officer	being	subject	to	disciplinary	punishment	relating	to	an	offence	mentioned	
under	Summary	Disciplinary	Procedure	in	Section	25.2	in	Chapter	XLVIII	of	the	Establishments	Code.
 13 Option for Retirement
	 	 An	officer	of	the	audit	staff,	not	willing	to	be	employed	at	the	National	Audit	office	with	effect	from	the	date	of	
publishing this Service Minute on the Gazette, may retire in accordance with provisions of Minutes on Pensions. 
 14 Officers Already in Service being absorbed into new Grades of the Reformed Service.
 14.1.		Officers	in	the	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	and	Audit	Examiners’	Service	as	at	the	date	on	which	this	Service	Minute	takes	
effect,	shall	be	absorbed	into	the	reformed	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	in	the	following	manner.	
	 I.	 Officers	 of	Class	III	Grade	II	shall	be	absorbed	into	the	post	of	Audit	Officer	of	Class	III	Grade	II	of	the	Sri	
Lanka State audit Service.
	 II.	 Officers	 of	Class	III	Grade	I	shall	be	absorbed	into	the	Post	of	Audit	Officer	of	Class	III	Grade	I	of	the	Sri	Lanka	
State audit Service.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
19a
	 III.	 Officers	 in	the	post	of	Assistant	Superintendent	of	Audit	shall	be	absorbed	into	the	post	of	Assistant	Superintendent	
of audit of Super Grade of the Sri Lanka State audit Service. 
	 IV.	 Officers	 of	Class	II	Grade	II	of	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	shall	be	absorbed	into	Class	II	Grade	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	
State audit Service. 
	 V.	 	Officers	of	Class	II	Grade	I	of	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	shall	be	absorbed	into	Class	II	Grade	I	of	the	Sri	Lanka	
State audit Service. 
	 VI.	 Officers	 of	Class	I	Grade	II	of	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	shall	be	absorbed	into	Class	I		of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	
audit Service. 
	 VII.	 Officers	 of	Class	I	Grade	I	of	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	shall	be	absorbed	into	Special	Grade	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	
audit Service. 
	 VIII.	 Officers	 of	Special	Grade	of	the	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	Shall	be	absorbed	into	Special	Grade	of	the	Sri	Lanka	
State audit Service. 
 14.2	 The	date	of	salary	increment	of	the	officers	should	not	be	changed	due	to	this	absorption	whilst	the	seniority	of	
officers	in	their	respective	Classes	should	not	be	affected.	Salary	conversions	should	be	done	subject	to	the	following	
conditions. 
 
	 i.	 All	 the	officers	of	Grade	II	in	the	Audit	Examiners’	Service	receiving	salaries	under	MN	05	salary	scale	of	
the	Public	Administration	Circular	No.	03/2016	who	had	been	absorbed	into	the	post	of	Audit	Officer	as	at	
13.09.2021,	should		be	placed	at	the	initial	step	of	the	new	salary	scale	of	AS-01,	and	all	the	officers	in	Grade	
I	of	the	Audit	Examiners’	Service	should	be	placed	at	the	12th	step	of	the	AS-01	salary	scale	with	effect	from	 	
13.09.2021 in terms of Section 04 of Chapter vii of the establishments Code.
	 ii.	 With	 effect	from	the	first	day	thereafter,	360	officers	out	of	the	Audit	Officers	placed	beyond	12th	step	of	the	
aS-01 salary scale, should be promoted as per provisions in Section 05 of Chapter vii of the establishments 
Code into 360 posts approved for the post of Superintendent of audit with entitlement to the aS-02 salary scale 
in the order of seniority.
	 iii.	 The	 initial	salary	scale	of	only	the	officers	being	absorbed	into	the	salary	scale	of	AS-02	as	at	the	date	of	new	
service	minute	coming	into	effect,	shall	be	deemed	to	be	on	the	3rd	step	(Rs.	46,865)	of	the	AS-02	A	salary	
scale, rs.45,355-11*755-18*1030; and, adjustments will be made thereafter. 
	 iv.	 As	 for	the	officers	becoming	entitled	to	salary	increments	lower	in	value	than	the	salary	scales		as	at	13.09.2021	
when they are provided with the next salary increment, or their salaries  are updated in accordance with the 
new Service Minute, the value of salary so reduced should be given to them on personal to holder basis as an 
adjustment	allowance	which	should	be	considered	in	such	officers’	pension	and	also	a	part	of	such	officers’	
salary.
	 v.	 Salary	conversions	of	the	officers	should	be	done	step	by	step.
15. Transitional Provisions 
 15.1  Period of Transition 
	 	 The	period	of	transition	shall	be	effective	until	15.01.2029

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
20a
 15.2 .Provisions on language competency in Public administration Circular No. 18/2020 and other relevant Circulars shall 
remain	effective	for	officers	appointed	prior	to	the	effective	date	of	this	Service	Minute.	
 15.3  Efficiency Bar
	(a)		 The	Efficiency	Bar	Examinations	necessitated	under	provisions	in	Service	Minutes	of	Audit	Examiners’	
Service	and	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	that	remained	effective	before	the	enforcement	of	this	Service	Minute,	
shall	be	conducted	as	and	when	required	up	to	a	period	of	05	years	from	the	effective	date	of	new	Service	
Minute.	Only	the	officers	appointed	under	provisions	of	Service	Minute	which	remained	effective	until	the	new	
Service	Minute	came	into	effect,	shall	be	allowed	to	sit	such	Efficiency	Bar	Examinations.	
	(b)		 Although	Efficiency	Bar	Examinations	shall	be	conducted	over	a	period	of	05	years	from	the	commencement	
of	the	transitional	period	in	terms	of	provisions	in	the	Service	Minutes	that	remained	effective	previously	as	
mentioned	in	Paragraph	15.3	(a),	the	periods	within	which	the	Efficiency	Bar	Examinations	should	be	passed,	
mentioned in such Service Minutes shall remain unchanged. 
	(c)		 As	for	the	officers	of	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	and	Audit	Examiners’	Service	appointed	prior	to	the	effective	
date	of	this	Service	Minute,	the	provisions	of	Service	Minute	under	which	such	officers	were	appointed	and	
they	would	be	exempted	from	Efficiency	Bar	Examinations	and	gaining		 language	competency,	shall	still	
remain	effective	during	the	transitional	period	after	the	new	Service	Minute	becoming	effective.	
15.4. Evaluation of Performance
In	case	that	an	officer	has	earned	his	salary	increment	on	or	before	the	effective	date	of	new	Service	Minute,	it	shall	be	deemed	
when	such	an	officer	is	promoted	during	the	transitional	period	that	he	has	shown	a	satisfactory	or	higher	performance.		
15.5. Promotion of Grades during the Transitional Period 
15.5.1. Promotion from Class III Grade II to Class III Grade I
In	case	of	an	officer	absorbed	into	Class	III	Grade	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	in	terms	of		Sub-section	14.1(I)	of	
this	Service	Minute,	completing	the	following	qualifications,	he	shall	qualify	to	be	promoted	to	Class	III	Grade	I	of	the	Sri	
Lanka State audit Service. 
15.5.1.1 Qualifications to be Met
	 I.	 Should	be	confirmed	in	service.
 ii. Completion of active and satisfactory service period of at least ten (10) years in Class iii Grade ii, and ten (10) salary 
increments should be earned. 
	 III.	 Satisfactory	or	higher	level	of	performance	during	the	five	(05)	year	period	immediately	prior	to	the	date	of	promotion	
in accordance with the approved performance appraisal. 
 iv . Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment. ( Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and 
Definition	12.(V)	)
	 V.	 Passing	the	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	of	Class	III	of	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service,	or	passing	the	Efficiency	Bay	
Examination	for	officers	of	the	Audit	Examiners’	Service.
	 VI.	 Gaining	official	language	competency	in	terms	of	Public	Administration	Circular,	No.	18/2020	and	other	relevant	
Circulars. 
15.5.1.2. Method for Promotions
Officers	completing	all	the	qualifications	mentioned	in	Sub-section	15.5.1.1,	shall	be	promoted	to	Class	III	Grade	I	by	the	
Audit	Service	Commission	once	their	qualifications	are	verified.	

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
21a
15.5.2. Promoting from Class III Grade I to Supra Grade of Class III
An	officer,	promoted	to	Class	III	Grade	I	after	being	absorbed	into	Class	III	Grade	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	in	
terms of Sub-section 14.1 (i) of this Service Minute, or absorbed into Class iii Grade i of the Sri Lanka State audit Service 
in terms of Sub-section 14.1 (ii), shall qualify to be promoted to Supra Grade of Class iii of the Sri Lanka State audit 
Service	in	case	of	such	an	officer	meeting	the	following	qualifications.	
15.5.2.1 Qualifications to be Met 
 i. Showing a satisfactory or higher performance during the period of 05 years immediately prior to the closing date of 
applications mentioned in the Notice calling for applications. 
 ii. Completion of an active and satisfactory service during the period of 05 years immediately prior to the closing date of 
applications mentioned in the Notice calling for applications. 
	 iii.	 Five	(5)	salary	increments	should	be	earned	during	the	period	of	five	(05)	years	immediately	prior	to	the	closing	date	
of applications mentioned in the Notice calling for applications. 
 iv. Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment. ( Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and 
Definition	12.(V)	)
15.5.2.2. Method of Promotions 
Qualifications	of	officers,	eligible	as	per	Sub-section	10.5.2.1,	shall	be	verified,	and	the	qualified	officers	shall	be	promoted	
to the Supra Grade of Class iii in the order of seniority based on the number of vacancies by the audit Service Commission. 
15.5.3. Promoting from Class II Grade II to Class II Grade I
In	case	of	an	officer	absorbed	into	Class	II	Grade	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	in	terms	of	Sub-section	14.1	(IV)	
of	this	Service	Minute,	completing	the	following	qualifications,	he	shall	qualify	to	be	promoted	to	Class	II	Grade	I	of	the	
Sri Lanka State audit Service. 
15.5.3.1 Qualifications to be Met 
	 i.	 Should	be	confirmed	in	service.
 ii. Completion of an active and satisfactory service for a period of 06 years in Class ii Grade ii, and 06 salary increments 
should be earned. 
 iii. Higher or satisfactory performance within the period of 05 years immediately prior to the date of promotion as per the 
approved performance appraisal. 
 iv. Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment ( Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and 
Definition	12.(V)	)
	 v.	 The	first	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	Class	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	should	be	passed	by	the	date	
specified,	or	the	first	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	officers	of	Class	II	of	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	should	be	passed	
or exempted.
	 vi.	 Gaining	official	language	competency	in	terms	of	Public	Administration	Circular,	No.	18/2020	and	other	relevant	
Circulars. 
15.5.3.2. Method of Promotions
Officers	completing	all	the	qualifications	mentioned	in	Sub-section	15.5.3.1,	shall	be	promoted	to	Class	II	Grade	I	by	the	
Audit	Service	Commission	once	their	qualifications	are	verified.	
15.5.4. Promoting from Class II Grade I to Class I
In	case	of	an	officer	absorbed	into	Class	II	Grade	I	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	in	terms	of		Sub-section	14.1	(V)	of	this	
Service Minute,  or  promoted to Class ii Grade i within the transitional period, he shall qualify to be promoted to Class i 
of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	upon	completion	of	the	following	qualifications.	

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
22a
15.5.4.1.  Qualifications to be Met 
.
 i.  Completion of an active and satisfactory service of 12 years both in Class ii Grade ii and Class ii Grade i of the Sri 
Lanka State audit Service. 
 ii. Showing a satisfactory or higher performance during the period of 05 years immediately prior to the date of promotion 
as per the approved performance appraisal. 
 iii. Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment. ( Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and 
Definition	12.(V)	)
	 iv.	 The	second	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	Class	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	should	be	passed	by	the	date	
specified,	or	the	second	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	officers	of	Class	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	should	be	
passed or exempted.  
  Note 14
	 	 In	case	of	lack	of	officers	with	12	year	active	and	satisfactory	service	both	in	Class	II	Grade	II	and	Class	II	Grade	I	of	
Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	as	at	the	date	of	filing	vacancies,	vacancies	in	Grade	I	shall	be	filled	with	officers	having	
completed an active and satisfactory service of 10 years both in Class ii Grade ii and Class ii Grade i of the Sri Lanka 
State audit Service. 
 
15.5.4.2. Method of Promotion
Officers	completing	all	the	qualifications	mentioned	in	Sub-section	15.5.4.1,	shall	be	promoted	to	Class	I		by	the	Audit	
Service	Commission	once	their	qualifications	are	verified.	
15.5.5. Promoting from Class I to the Special Grade 
In	case	of	an	officer	absorbed	into	Class	I	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	in	terms	of	Sub-section	14.1	(VI)	of	this	
Service Minute,  or  promoted to Class i  within the transitional period, he shall be promoted to the vacant posts in Sri Lanka 
State	Audit	Service	upon	completion	of	the	following	qualifications.	
15.5.5.1. Qualifications to be Met 
 i. Completion of an active service period not less than 18 years at the executive level in Sri Lanka audit Service as at 
the date of becoming  eligible for promotion. 
 ii. Showing a satisfactory or higher performance during the period of 05 years immediately prior to the date of promotion 
as per the approved performance appraisal..
 iii. Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment (Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and 
Definition	12.(V)	)
	 iv.	 The	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	Class	I	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	should	be	passed	by	the	date	specified,	
or	the	Efficiency	Bar	Examination	for	officers	of	Class	I	Grade	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	Audit	Service	should	be	passed.
  Note 15
	 	 In	case	of	lack	of	officers	of	Class	I	with		an	active	and	satisfactory	service	period	not	less	than	18	years	at	the	executive	
level	in	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	as	at	the	date	of	considering	qualifications	for	filling	vacancies,	vacancies	in	
special	Grade	shall	be	filled	with	officers	of	Class	I	in	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	with	an	active	and	satisfactory	
service period of 15 years.
15.5.5.2. Method of Promotion 
The	officers	eligible	as	per	qualifications	under	Sub-section	15.5.5.1	shall	be	promoted	to	the	Special	Grade	by	the	Audit	
Service	Commission	based	on	the	number	of	vacancies.	Once	their	qualifications	are	verified	by	a	Board	of	Interview	
appointed	by	the	Audit	Service	Commission,	such	officers	shall	be	promoted	to	the	Special	Grade	in	the	order	of	seniority.	
15.6. Appointment to the Posts during the Transitional Period 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
23a
15.6.1. Appointment to the Post of Assistant Superintendent of Audit of Supra Grade in Class III.
An	officer	promoted	to	the	Supra	Grade	of	Class	III	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	in	terms	of		Sub-section	14.1	(II)	
of this Service Minute, shall be appointed to the post of assistant Superintendent of audit of Supra Grade of Class iii of the 
Sri Lanka State audit Service. 
15.6.2. Appointment to the Post of Superintendent of Audit of Class II Grade II on Seniority and Merit Bases
in case of vacancies in the post of Superintendent of audit of Class ii Grade ii of the Sri Lanka State audit Service, 
applications	shall	be	called	from	qualified	officers	through	an	internal	Circular	issued	by		the	National	Audit	Office	and	
by	publishing		a	notice	on	the	website	of	National	Audit	Office;	and,	based	on	the	number	of	vacancies	in	this	stream,	
qualifications	mentioned	in	7.2.2.1.5	above	shall	be	verified	by	a	Board	of	Interview	appointed	by	the	Audit	Service	
Commission,		and	the	eligible	officers	shall	be	appointed	to	the	post	of	Superintendent	of	Audit	of		Class	II	Grade	II	of	the	
Sri Lanka State audit Service 
15.6.3.  Appointment to the Post of Senior Assistant Auditor General of Class I
Vacancies	in	the	post	of	Senior	Assistant	Auditor	General	shall	be	filled	with	officers	appointed	/	promoted	to	Class	I	of	the	
Sri Lanka State audit Service during the transitional period. in case of the posts of Senior assistant auditor General falling 
vacant,	such	vacancies	shall	be	filled	with	officers	of	Class	I	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	by	the	Audit	Service	
Commission	based	on	their	seniority.	As	for	the	first	time	of	filling	vacancies	in	the	post	of	Senior	Assistant	Auditor	General	
in	terms	of	the	new	Service	Minute	during	the	transitional	period,	Such	vacancies	shall	be	filled	with	internal	applicants	
based on their seniority. 
15.6.4.  Appointment to the Post of Deputy Auditor General of Special Grade  
Officers	appointed	/promoted	to	the	Special	Grade	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	during	the	transitional	period,	shall	
be appointed to the post of deputy auditor General of Special Grade by the audit Service Commission.
15.6.5. Appointment to the Post of Senior Deputy Auditor General of Special Grade 
 
in case of the posts of Senior deputy auditor General of Special Grade in Sri Lanka State audit Service falling vacant, 
officers	of	Special	Grade	with	a	satisfactory	service	period	in	the	post	of	Deputy	Auditor	General,	shall	be	appointed	to	the	
post of Senior deputy auditor General based on their seniority. 
16. Skills Development
The skills development process is in two forms - induction Training and in-service Training. This is a continuous process 
that	improves	knowledge	and	awareness	of	the	trainee	officers	of	the	service	on	the	administrative	responsibility	of	the	
service	and	the	existing	laws	for	the	fulfillment	of	responsibility	of	the	statutory	audit,	comprises	necessary	knowledge	and	
skills	for	various	ranks	of	the	posts	for	the	discharge	of	functions	assigned	and	guides	to	act	efficiently	at	professional	level.	 	
Action	will	be	taken	in	due	course	based	on	a	plan	relating	to	skills,	induction	training	and	in-service	training	for	officers	
of the Sri Lanka State audit Service. 
16.1. Induction Training 
(a)							Every	officer	recruited	to	the	post	of	Audit	Officers	Class	III	Grade	II	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	should	
successfully complete the one year induction training course on the subject of audit conducted by the National 
Audit	Office	and	obtain	the	certificate.
(b)				The	induction	training	assists	the	every	officer	to	gain	competency	in	both	the	Official	Languages,	Sinhala	and	Tamil.	
Similarly, opportunities will be provided to acquire knowledge of the necessary subjects for the audit including 
audit, accountancy, Cost Management, information Technology and economics relevant to the discharge of 
general functions of the service. forty per cent or above marks should be scored for the test on english Language 
conducted as a part of the course at the end of the induction course.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
24a
(c)					The	induction	training	period	will	assist	the	trainee	officers	to	acquire	necessary	career		guidance	and	strategies,	
and	skills	to	reach	professional	level	as	an	Audit	Officer.	
(d)		 In	case	a	trainee	officer	entered	the	service	under	the	open	stream,	failing	the	examination	conducted	at	the	end	of	
the	induction	training,	the	service	of	the	trainee	officer	concerned	shall	be	terminated..
16.2. In-service Training
A	continuous	in-service	training	will	be	provided	according	to	the	seniority	and	responsibility	level	of	the	officer.	It	is	
expected	to	provide	this	training	with	emphasis	on	major	skill	areas	identified.	
 (a)  Skills development Level iv 
	 	 This	training	is	applicable	to	the	officers	in	Class	III	Grade	II	of	the	service.	This	requirement	should	be	satisfied	by	
successfully completing Capacity development Level-iv  Course conducted by the National audit Service Training 
Institute	or	other	higher	education/	training	institute	and	obtaining	the	relevant	certificate..
  (b)  Capacity development Level-iii
 
	 	 This	training	is	applicable	to	the	officers	in	Class	II	Grade	II	of	the	service.	This	requirement	should	be	satisfied	by	
successfully completing Capacity development Level-iii Course conducted by the National audit Service Training 
Institute	or	other	higher	education/	training	institute	and	obtaining	the	relevant	certificate.
 (c)  Capacity development Level-ii
	 	 This	training	is	applicable	to	the	officers	of	Class	II	Grade	I	of	the	service.	This	requirement	should	be	satisfied	by	
successfully completing Capacity development Level-iii Course conducted by the National audit Service Training 
Institute	or	other	higher	education/	training	institute	and	obtaining	the	relevant	certificate.
 (d)  Capacity development Level –i
	 	 This	training	is	applicable	to	the	officers	of	Class	I	of	the	service.	This	requirement	should	be	satisfied	by	successfully	
completing Capacity development Level-iii Course conducted by the National audit Service Training institute or 
other	higher	education/	training	institute	and	obtaining	the	relevant	certificate.
Note  16
in the event of limited competitive examination for recruitment of Superintendent of audit  in executive category of the 
Sri Lanka audit Service not conducted as scheduled in terms of the Cabinet decision No. wum/21/1274/301/017  dated 13 
September 2021 prior to the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka State audit Service being approved, that examination shall be 
conducted only once. 
Note  17
In	case	that	the	process	for	recruitment	to	the	post	of	Audit	Officer	of	Audit	Examiners’	Service	has	been	initiated	prior	to	
receiving approval for Service Minute of the Sri Lanka State audit Service, such recruitment process shall be continued 
under	the	Audit	Service	Commission;	and,	the	officers,	thus	qualified,	shall	be	appointed	to	the	post	of	Audit	Officer	of	the	
Sri Lanka State audit Service. 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
25a
Note 18
An	officer	directly	recruited	by	considering	a	certain	professional	qualification	as	a	basic	qualification,	shall	not	be	allowed	to	
apply	for	other	direct	recruitments	with	the	said	qualification	deemed	as	an	entry	qualification.	Furthermore,	a	qualification	
considered for direct recruitment, shall not be taken into consideration in the event of a promotion. 
17. Other Matters
	 I.	 In	addition	to	the	provisions	of	this	Minute,	every	officer	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	Service	shall	be	subject	to	the	
provisions of the establishments Code. 
	 II.	 Until	the	Audit	Service	Commission	publishes	its	own	Procedural	Rules,	every	officer	of	the	Sri	Lanka	State	Audit	
Service shall be subject to the Procedural rule No. 2310/29 published by the Public Service Commission on 14 
december 2022 and the amendments made thereto from time to time.
	 III.	 In	addition,	all	the	officers	should	duly	acquire	the	required	competency	and	skills	that	may	be	determined	by	the	
Government from time to time.
 iv . in the event of an issue relating to a degree conferred by a certain institution, the university Grants Commission shall 
be	quarried	in	that	connection,	and	the	degree	shall	be	considered	as	a	qualification	thereafter.	
 v . in case of a certain matter for which no provisions have been made in this Service Minute, the audit Service 
Commission shall decide thereon. 
 vi. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil or english texts of this Minute, the Sinhala text shall 
prevail.. 
 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
26a
APPENDIX	 01
Syllabus of the written competitive examination conducted for recruitment for the Class III Grade II of the Sri 
Lanka State Audit Service
1. This examination consists of the following six (6) question papers. 
 a) iQ
 b) Creative, analytical and Communication Skills. 
 c) financial accounting 
 d) auditing
 e) Knowledge of information and Communication Technology 
 f) aptitude test for the information and Communication Technology Management. 
 • IQ
  it is expected to test the iQ level of the applicant for analytical skills, comprehension, interpretation skills, the capability 
of	adapting	to	different	circumstances	and	reaching	conclusions	with	regard	to	the	issues	submitted	on	numerical,	
linguistic, and graphical structures and interrelations.
  (duration- 1 ½ hours- 100 Marks. This question paper consists of multiple choice questions, short questions, structured 
essay-type questions, and essay-type questions)
 • Creative, Analytical and Communication skills
  it is designed to evaluate the reasoning and creative abilities demonstrated by the applicant in analyzing, collecting and 
presenting views and information through the topics/ themes selected by the applicant from among the collection of 
topics/themes provided as well as to test the skills of the applicant in comprehending a complex paragraph, document 
or	memorandum	and	expressing	clearly	and	accurately	its	core	ideas	briefly	in	his	own	words.		
  (duration  03 hours - 100 Marks)
 • financial Accounting.
 i. Structural framework for financial reporting
	 	 Objectives	 of	the	financial	reporting,	objectives	of	each	section	in	financial	reporting,	identification	of	software	in	
financial	statements	and	their	measuring,	assumptions	that	are	taken	into	account	in	the	preparation	of	financial	
statements	and	their	materiality,	main	features	of	the	financial	statements	and	their	improvement,	the	concept	of	
capital management.
 ii. regulatory framework
	 	 Preparation	 and	presentation	of	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	the	Companies	Act,	No.07	of	2007,	the	
requirement	of	the	submission	of	financial	statements	for	businesses	under	the	Sri	Lanka	Accounting	and	Auditing	
Standard act, No.15 of 1995.
 iii. Sri Lanka accounting Standards
	 	 Requirement	 of	the	Accounting	Standards,	elementary	knowledge	about	financial	instruments,	prime	knowledge	
of the Sri Lanka accounting Standards applicable to the small and medium scale business establishments.
	 iv.	 Preparation	and	presentation	of	financial	statements	of	the	limited	liability	companies,	and	preparation	and	
presentation	of	financial	statements	with	the	objective	of	publication.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
27a
 v. Preparation of Cash flow Statement
	 vi.	 Analysis	of		financial	statements
	 	 Computation	 of	accounting	ratios,	and	preparation	of	a	summary	report	to	the	management	incorporating	financial	
position,	performance	and	the	operating	efficiency	of	the	entity	using	of	ratios.
 vii. Consolidated financial Statements
  Preparation of Consolidated financial Statements with the adjustments.
  (Duration  03 hours - 100 Marks)
 • Auditing
 i   auditing
	 •	 Business	Environment
	 	 Different	types	of	business	organizations	and	their	objectives,	external	environment	influencing	business	organizations.
	 •	 Good	Governance,	Risk	and	Compliance
	 	 Risks	influencing	 the	 achievement	 of	 the	 objectives	 of	 a	 business	 organization,	 internal	 and	 external	 business	
environmental risk, basic elements of a risk management framework, risk minimization strategies, institutional good 
governance, representation issues and the requirement of audit. 
	 •	 Business	Procedures	and	Internal	Control
	 	 Prime	business	procedures	of	an	organization,	internal	control,	objectives	of	the	controls,	five	elements	of	the	internal	
control, general control over information technology and software control, limitations of internal control.
	 •	 Responsibility	of	Certification	and	Related	Services
	 	 Certification,	responsibility	of	limited	certification	and	responsibility	of	justifiable	certification,	fundamentals	of	
certification	responsibility,	acceptance	of	responsibility/auditing.	
	 •	 Process	of	Auditing
	 	 Audit	risk,	certification	of	financial	statements,	common	principles	of	controlling	the	audit	of	financial	statements,	
identification	of	the	entity	and	its	environment,	risk	assessment,	inspection	of	controls	and	independent	procedures,	risk	
of frauds, materiality, and documentation.
	 •	 Audit	Evidence
  audit evidence, audit procedures applicable to collecting audit evidence, selection of items for audit test check.
	 •	 Audit	Report
  evaluation on the impact	 of	material	misstatements,	unmodified	audit	report,	modified	audit	report,	emphasis	on	matters.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
28a
	 •	 Ethical	requirements	impacting	on	the	audit	of	financial	statements.
  acknowledgement of the client and acceptance of the  service, the risk faced by a professional auditor in complying 
with preliminary ethics.
	 •	 Quality	of	Auditing
	 	 Fundamentals	of	quality	control	system,	quality	control	requirements	needed	in	financial	statement	auditing.		
  (Duration 03 hours, 100 Marks. This question paper consists of essay-type questions)
 E) knowledge of Information and Communication Technology
	 	 In	this	section,	the	applicant’s	creative	skills	in	information	and	communication	technology	management,	resolving	
information technology issues, information technology project management skills and the system analyzes, planning 
and software development skills will be evaluated.
  all questions should be answered.  
  ( duration  2 hours,  100 Marks)
 f) Aptitude test on the Information and Communication Technology Management 
  This question paper has been designed to evaluate the aptitude of the applicant towards information and communication 
technology management with the use knowledge of the software development, installation and maintenance with the 
new	trends	in	the	field	of	information	and	communication	technology.
  all questions should be answered.
  (Duration 2 hours, 100 Marks)

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
29a
	APPENDIX		 02
Syllabus of the limited written competitive examination conducted for recruitment for the Class II Grade II of the 
Sri Lanka State Audit Service
	1.	 This	examination	consists	of	the	following	five	(5)	question	papers..
 a) Public Sector auditing
 b) Public Sector accounts and reporting 
 c) Legal and regulatory framework
 d) audit Case Study 
 e) information and Communication Technology and e-Government. 
 2. Syllabus
 a) Public Sector Auditing 
  General principles relating to the state auditing adopted by the international Organization of Supreme audit 
institution.  
	 	 Quality	 control	in	financial	auditing	by	the	Institute	of	Chartered	Accountants	of	Sri	Lanka,	General	principles	
and responsibilities related to audit, risk assessment and responding to those risks, collection of audit evidence, 
Use	of	others’	work,	Audit	Standards	and	publications	issued	in	relation	to	reporting	audit	conclusions	and	their	
follow up measures, General requirements relating to performance audit, compliance audit including other special 
audit, and standards and publications issued by the international Organization of Supreme audit institution with 
respect to planning, implementing, reporting and follow up of those audits.  
  (Duration 03 hours - 100 Marks. This question paper consists of the questions that expect essay type 
answers)
 b) Public Sector Accounting and Reporting
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	of	a	manufacturing	business.
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	using	incomplete	notes.
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statement	of	a	non-profit	oriented	organization.
	 •	 Nature	 of	a	business	with	specific	accounting	(Including	the	membership	fees	of	the	members,	life	time	membership	
and donations) Preparation of income and expenditure account, Preparation of Statement of financial Position.
	 •	 Application	of	Sri	Lanka	 Accounting	Standards,
	 •	 Preparation	of	Financial	Statement	of	a	limited	company	or	a	State	corporation.
	 •	 Analysis	 and	interpretation	of	financial	statements	by	ratios	and	submission	of	information	needed	to	make	
decisions.
	 •	 Implementation	of	financial	accounting	controls,
	 •	 Objective	 and	the	requirement	of	control	accounts,	control	accounts	in	various	types,	preparation	of	debtors	
control account and the creditors control account, comparison of balances in individual accounts with the 
balances in control accounts, objective and the requirement of the preparation of bank reconciliation statements, 
and preparation of bank reconciliation statements.
	 •	 Errors	in	accounting,	and	making	corrections.
	 •	 Multiple	types	of	errors	in	accounting,	preparation	of	suspense	account	and	making	corrections.
	 •	 Financial	reporting/	publication.
	 •	 Objectives	of	the	financial	statements	and	preparation	of	financial	statements	for	reporting.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
30a
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements.
	 •	 Characteristics	 of	financial	statements	(State	corporations	and	companies),	adjustments	to	the	financial	statements	
( accruals, pre-payments, depreciations, adjustments of bad debts and doubtful debts, valuation of stocks and 
accounting for stocks as per LKaS 02, acquisition, removal and transfers and accounting for property, plant and 
equipment, provision as per LKaS 27, accounting for contingent liabilities and contingent assets, adjustment 
of incidents after the reporting period as per LKaS,  accounting for the issuance of debentures, accounting for 
Income	Tax	(Recurrent	Tax)	of	a	company	and	preparation	of	financial	statements	for	a	limited	liability	company	
for internal use, goals and objectives of the preparation of production account and  preparation of  production 
account	with	the	adjustments	to	the	unfinished	stocks,	and	transfer	of	goods	at	the	cost	or	with	a	profit	margin,	
preparation	of	a	cash	flow	statement.	
	 •	 Computerized	accounting
	 •	 Introduction	 of	the	computerized	accounting	(Including	objectives	and	functions),	basic	knowledge	of	the	
computerized accounting packages (including application, process and provisions)
	 •	 Preparation	 of	financial	statements	of	a	limited	company	with	a	subsidiary	or	one	associated	company	or	a	joint	
venture.
	 •	 Analysis	 and	interpretation	of	financial	statements	by	ratios	and	submission	of	information	needed	for	making	
management decisions. 
  (Duration 03 hours,  100 Marks)
 c) Legal and Regulatory framework
   (Provisions of National audit act/ Procedural rules / Provisions of the establishments Code and Procurement 
Guidelines) (Legal and regulatory framework)
	 •	 Chapter	XVII	of	the	Constitution	of	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	–	Financial.	
	 •	 Audit	Act	No.19	of	2019	
	 •	 Finance	Act	No.38	of	1971	(Section	II)
	 •	 Paragraphs	related	to	the	Audit	of	Accounting	Standards.
	 •	 Provisions	related	to	the	audit	of	State	Banks,	Provincial	Councils,	Local	Authorities,	Agrarian	Services	Centers,	
universities and the other entities falling under the scope of the auditor General.
	 •	 Contract	Law	and	Representation	Law.	
  (Duration 03 hours, 100 Marks)
 d) Audit Case Study 
  Conducting an in-depth analysis on a certain case provided in relation to the audit and apprehending its current 
positions (favourable/ unfavourable positions), reaching logical solutions, knowledge of creating a proper environment 
conducive to ensure productive future positions.
  ( Compilation of 02 reports in association with 02 cases provided )
  (Duration 02 hours - 100 Marks)
 e) Information and Communication Technology and e-Government 
  This question paper consists of two sections.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
31a
 Question Paper Duration Marks
	 •	 Question	Paper	I	–	Multiple	Choice	Questions	 	 1	hour	 	 40
	 •	 Question	Paper	II	–	Essay-type	Questions	 	 2		hours		 60
	 •	 Total	Marks	 	 	 	 	 100
Question papers will be designed to cover the following subject areas. 
 i. The basic elements of the life circle of the information technology projects such as System Study, System analysis, 
System designing, Software development, their testing, user acceptance Testing, related technical areas such 
as	Algorhythems,	HTML,	XTML,	php,	Data	and	Information	Security,	Re-installation	of	systems	due	to	disasters,	
Intellectual	Property	Right	and	Software	Licenses,	Free	and	Open	Source	Software,	Web	2.0,	are	included	in	the	
information and Communication Technology Section.
 ii. The e-Government Section includes the methods of applying information and Communication Technology for the 
Public	sector,	accomplishment	of	an	efficient	public	service	using	Information	and	Communication	Technology,	Basic	
technological	requirements	for	e-Government,	Basic	components	of	State	Information	and	Communication	Technology	
framework, fundamentals of e-Government system, and interoperability. 
 

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
32a
APPENDIX	 03
Marking Scheme of the Structured Interview Conducted for Recruitment under the Direct Stream for the Sri 
Lanka State Audit Service
	 01)		Additional	Educational	Qualifications	-	Maximum		 25	Marks
 Educational Qualifications Marks
  a) General degree 10
  b) Special degree 11
  c) General degree with 2nd Class 11 
  d) Special degree with 2nd Class 13
  e) General degree with 1st Class 13
  f) Special degree with 1st Class 15
  g) Postgraduate diploma 18
	 	 (The	 related	 fields	 including	 State	 Management,	 Financial	 Management,	 Public	 Finance,	 Accounting,	
Development	 Finance,	 Commerce,	 Economics,	 Business	 Administration,	 State	 Management	 Information	
Technology, Government Policies and Project Management)
 h) Master degree                      20
	 	 (The	 related	 fields	 including	 State	 Management,	 Financial	 Management,	 Public	 Finance,	 Accounting,	
Development	 Finance,	 Commerce,	 Economics,	 Business	 Administration,	 State	 Management	 Information	
Technology, Government Policies and Project Management)
 i) Postgraduate degrees or above degrees                                     25
	 	 (The	 related	 fields	 including	 State	 Management,	 Financial	 Management,	 Public	 Finance,	 Accounting,	
Development	 Finance,	 Commerce,	 Economics,	 Business	 Administration,	 State	 Management	 Information	
Technology, Government Policies and Project Management)
02)	Additional	Professional	Qualifications	
	 	 Marks	will	be	given	only	for	one	qualification	satisfied	in	addition	to	the	basic	professional	qualification.	(Maximum	of	 	
20 Marks )
 a) Shall have obtained a Higher diploma in accountancy or Commerce in Sri Lanka Technical College/ Sri Lanka 
institute of advanced Technological education (07 Marks)
	 b)	 Shall	 have	passed	the	examination	of	Licentiate	II/	Intermediate	level/	Accountancy	and		Business	Certificate	
II/	Business	Level	of	the	Institute	Charted	Accountants	of	Sri	Lanka	/		 Level	II	of	the	Institute	of	Certified	
Management accountants of Sri Lanka (09 Marks)
 c) Shall have passed the final 1 examination of the institute Charted accountants of Sri Lanka/ Level iii of the 
Institute	of	Certified	Management	Accountants	of	Sri	Lanka	(12	Marks)
	 d)	 Associate	 membership	of	the	Institute	Charted	Accountants	of	Sri	Lanka	or	the	Institute	of	Certified	Management	
accountants of Sri Lanka. (15 Marks) 
	 e)	 Fellow	 membership	of	the	Institute	Charted	Accountants	of	Sri	Lanka	or	the	Institute	of	Certified	Management	
accountants of Sri Lanka (20 Marks)
 03) information Technology/ Computer Skills (05 Marks)
	 	 Shall	have	passed	a	certificate	course	in	computer	for	a	duration	of	06	months	or	above	conferred	by	a	university	or	an	
institute	approved	by	the	Tertiary	and	Vocational	Education	Commission	and		obtained	a	certificate.	

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
33a
APPENDIX	 04
Syllabus of the Written Efficiency Bar Examination of the Officers in Class III Grade II of the Sri Lanka State 
Audit Service
 1. This examination consists of the following three (3) question papers. 
  a. auditing 
  b. accountancy 
  c. Public finance and establishments Procedure
2. Syllabus
  a) auditing
	 •	 Business	Environment
	 	 Different	types	of	business	organizations	and	their	objectives,	external	environment	influencing	business	
organizations.
	 •	 Good	Governance,	Risk	and	Compliance
	 	 Risks	influencing	the	achievement	of	the	objectives	of	a	business	organization,	internal	and	external	
business environmental risk, basic elements of a risk management framework, risk minimization strategies, 
institutional good governance, representation issues and the requirement of audit. 
	 •	 Business	Procedures	and	Internal	Control
	 	 Prime	business	procedures	of	an	organization,	internal	control,	objectives	of	the	controls,	five	elements	
of the internal control, general control over information technology and software control, limitations of 
internal control.
	 •	 Responsibility	of	Certification	and	Related	Services
	 	 Certification,	responsibility	of	limited	certification	and	responsibility	of	justifiable	certification,	fundamentals	
of	certification	responsibility,	acceptance	of	responsibility/auditing.	
	 •	 Process	of	Auditing
	 	 Audit	risk,	certification	of	financial	statements,	common	principles	of	controlling	the	audit	of	financial	
statements,	identification	of	the	entity	and	its	environment,	risk	assessment,	inspection	of	controls	and	
independent procedures, risk of frauds, materiality, and documentation.
	 •	 Audit	Evidence
  audit evidence, audit procedures applicable to collecting audit evidence, analytical procedures, selection 
of items for audit test check.
	 •	 Audit	Report
	 	 Evaluation	on	the	impact	of	material	misstatements,	unmodified	audit	report,	modified	audit	report,	
emphasis on matters.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
34a
	 •	 Ethical	requirements	impacting	on	the	audit	of	financial	statements.
  acknowledgement of the client and acceptance of the service, the risk faced by a professional auditor in 
complying with preliminary ethics.
	 •	 Quality	of	Auditing
	 	 Fundamentals	of	quality	control	system,	quality	control	requirements	needed	in	financial	statement	auditing.	 	
  (duration 03 hours, 100 Marks. This question paper consists of essay-type questions)
 b) accountancy
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	by	accounting	for	transactions	and	events	through	double	entry	method.
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	of	a	manufacturing	business.
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	of	an	institution	with	incomplete	accounting	records.
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statement	of	a	non-profit	oriented	organization.
	 •	 Application	of	Sri	Lanka	 Accounting	Standards
	 •	 Preparation	of	Financial	Statement	of	a	limited	company	or	a	State	corporation
	 •	 Analysis	 and	interpretation	of	financial	statements	by	ratios	and	submission	of	information	needed	to	make	
decisions.
	 •	 Preparation	of	Financial	Statements	of	Ministries	and	Departments.
	 •	 Preparation	of	Cash	Flow	Statements
  (duration 03 hours, 100 Marks. This question paper also consists of essay-type questions)
 c) Public finance and establishments Procedure  
 (i)  Public financial Procedure
	 •	 Chapter	XVII	of	the	Constitution	of	the	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka	–	Financial.	
	 •	 Provisions	of	Finance	 Act,	No.38	of	1971	(Section	II)
	 •	 Government	Financial	Regulations	and	the	Procurement	Guidelines	
	 •	 Provisions	of	the	 Audit	Act,	No.19	of	2018.
  (ii)   establishments Procedure
	 •	 Volume	 I	of	the	Establishments	Code	and	Procedural	Rules	of	the	Public	Service	Commission/	Audit	
Service Commission.
	 (iii)		Office	Systems	and	Office	Procedures
  (duration 03 hours, 100 Marks. This question paper consists of mulitipal selection questions, short questions, 
structured essay-type questions and essay-type questions).

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
35a
APPENDIX		 05
Syllabus of the Written Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of Class III Grade I of the Sri Lanka State Audit 
Service 
 1.  This examination comprises the following 03 question papers.  
 a. auditing  
 b. accountancy  
 c. Public finance and establishments Procedure
 2.  Syllabus
 a) auditing
	 •	 Business	Environment	
	 	 Miscellaneous	 types	of	business	organizations,	and	their	objectives,	external	environment	affecting	the	business	
organizations.
	 •	 Good	Governance,	Risks	and	Compliance	
	 	 Risks	 affecting	the	achievement	of	objectives	of	a	business	organization;	internal	and	external	risks	affecting	the	
business environment; components of a risk management framework; risk mitigation strategies; good governance 
of an institution, representation issues and necessity for auditing.
	 •	 Business	Procedures	and	Internal	Controls	
	 	 Fundamentals	 in	business	procedures	of	an	organization;	internal	controls;	objectives	of	controls;	five	internal	
control components; general control using information Technology and control of software; limits on internal 
control. 
	 •	 Responsibility	of	Certification	and	Related	Services	
	 	 Certification;	 responsibility	of	limited	certification	and	responsibility	of	justifiable	certification;	fundamentals	of	
certification;	acceptance	of	responsibility/	auditing.
	 •	 Process	of	 Auditing	
	 	 Audit	 risks;	certification	of	financial	statements;	common	principles	of	controlling	the	audit	of	financial	statements;	
identification	of	the	entity	and	its	environment;	risk	assessment;	inspection	of	controls	and	independent	procedures;	
risks of fraud; materiality; documentation. 
	 •	 Audit	Evidence
  audit evidence; procedure for obtaining evidence for audit; analytical procedures; selection of items for tests.
	 •	 Audit	Report
	 	 Evaluation	 on	the	impact	of	material	misstatements;	unmodified	audit		report;	modified	audit	report;	emphasis	on	
matters.
	 •	 Requirements	Impacting	on		the	 Audit	of	Financial	Statements
  acknowledgement of the client and acceptance of service; risks faced by a professional auditor in complying with 
preliminary ethics. 
	 •	 Quality	of	 Auditing
	 	 Fundamentals	 of	a	quality	control	system;	quality	control	requirements	needed	in	auditing	of	financial	statements.	
  (duration 03 hours- 100 marks. This question paper consists of essay type questions)

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
36a
 b) accountancy
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	by	accounting	for		transactions	and	events	through	double	entry	method.
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	for	manufacturing	business.	
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	for	an	institution	with	incomplete	accounting	records.
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	for	a	nonprofit-oriented	organization.
	 •	 Following	the	Sri	Lanka	 Accounting	Standards.
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	for	a	limited	company	or	a	public	corporation.	
	 •	 Presentation	 of	information	to	facilitate	decision	making	by	analyzing	and	defining	financial	statements	using	
ratios.
	 •	 Preparation	of	financial	statements	of	Ministries	and	Departments.
	 •	 Preparation	of	cash	flow	statements.	
  (duration 03 hours- 100 marks. This question paper consists of essay type questions)
 c) Public finance and establishments Procedure
 (i) Procedure of Public finance 
	 •	 Finance	in	 Article		XVII		of	the	Constitution	of	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka.
	 •	 Provisions	of	Finance	 Act,	No.	38	of	1971	(Part	II)
	 •	 Financial	Regulations	and	Government	Procurement	Guidelines.	
	 •	 Provisions	of	National	 Audit	Act,	No.	09	of	2018.
 (ii)  establishments Procedure 
	 •	 Establishments	 Code	Volume	I	and	Procedural	Rules	of	the	Public	Service			 Commission/Audit	Service	
Commission. 
	 (iii)		Office	System	and	Establishments	Procedure
  (duration 03 Hours- 100 Marks, this question paper consists of multiple choice questions, short questions, 
structured questions and essay type questions).

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
37a
APPENDIX	 06
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Class II Officers of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service
Syllabus for the written examination
 1.  This examination comprises the following 03 question papers.
 a) Public finance and establishments Procedure 
 b) Law and Taxation
 c) economics
 2.  Syllabus
 a) Public finance and establishments Procedure 
 (i)  Procedure of Public finance
	 •	 Financial	Regulations	of	the	Government	
	 •	 Government	Procurement	Guidelines
 (ii)  establishments Procedure
	 	 •	Volumes	I	and	II	of	the	Establishments	Code
	 	 •		Procedural	Rules	of	the	Public	Service	Commission/Audit	Service	Commission.
   (duration 03 Hours- 100 Marks, this question paper consists of multiple choice questions, short questions, structured 
questions and essay type questions)
 b) Law and Taxation 
	 •	 Finance	in	 Article		XVII		of	the	Constitution	of	Democratic	Socialist	Republic	of	Sri	Lanka.
	 •	 National	 Audit	Act,	No.	19	of	2018.
	 •	 Finance	 Act,	No.	38	of	1971	(Part	II)
	 •	 Companies	 Act,	No.	07	of	2007	–	Accounts	and	Chapters	related	to	Auditing.
	 •	 Provisions	 for	auditing	state	banks,	Provincial	Councils,	Local	Authorities,	Agrarian	Services	Centers,	Universities,	
and other institutions under scope of the auditor General. 
	 •	 Representation	Law,	Contract	Law,	Law	on	electronic	transactions.
	 •	 Introduction	to	 Taxation
  Principles of Taxation, direct and indirect Taxes, Tax authority of Sri Lanka, Legal framework, imposition of 
income Tax, residential Law
	 •	 Statutory	Revenue
	 	 Trade,	 Businesses,	Employment	or	Profession,	Employment	Revenue,	Net	annual	value	of	lands	and	constructions,	
Discounts	and	interest	on	dividends,	Recoveries	and	Annuities,	Lease	rents,	Royalties	and	Overpricing,	Betting,	
Rewards,	Winning	gaming	and	gambling,	Fines	and	allowances	of	the	Government,	Assistance,	Donations	and	
contributory receipts from Non-governmental Organizations, revenue from other sources, exempted revenue. 
	 •	 Taxation	on	Individuals	and	Companies
  individual statutory income, assessable income and taxable income, Total statutory revenue of a company, ratios 
of income tax, Gross liability of an individual for income tax, Gross liability of a company for income tax, 
Payable tax balance. 
	 •	 Taxation	for	Miscellaneous		Enterprises	
	 •	 Commitments	and	 Actions
  Payment of income tax, reports, assessment, appealing process, defaulting on taxes, refunds, Provisions for 
penalties. 

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
38a
	 •	 Concepts	and	Usage	
	 	 Withholding	tax	and	concept	of	closing	tax,	Capital	profits,	Definitions,	 Verdicts	of	cases.	
	 •	 Business	 Tax
	 	 Value	 Added	Tax,	Nation	Building	Tax,	Economic	Service	Fees,	Stamp	Duty
  (duration 03 Hours – 100 Marks)
 c) economics
	 •	 Introduction	to		Business	Economics	
	 •	 Consumers	and	Market
	 •	 Production	and	Cost	
	 •	 Role	of	the	Government	in	the	Market	
	 •	 Monies	and	Pricing	
	 •	 Banks	and	Financial	Policy	
	 •	 Macro	Economics	and	Business	Environment
	 •	 International	 Trade
	 •	 Economic	Growth	and	Development
	 •	 Development	Economics
( duration 03 hours- 100 Marks) 

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
39a
APPENDIX		 07
Syllabus of the Written Examination for Second Efficiency Bar of Class II Officers of Sri Lanka State Audit Service 
 1. This examination comprises the following 04 question papers. 
 a) State audit
 b) advanced financial accounting 
 c) Management and information Technology
 d) report writing and presentation of information to the management 
 2. Syllabus
 a) auditing of the State Sector
	 •	 General	 principles	of	the	International	Organization	of	Supreme	Audit	Institutions	relating	to	the	auditing	of	state	
sector. 
	 •	 Quality	 control	of	financial	audits	by	the	Institute	of	Chartered	Accountants,	Responsibility	and	general	principles	
relating	to	auditing,	Risk	evaluation	and	responding	to	such	risks,	Collection	of	audit	evidence,	Use	of	others’	
works, Statements and auditing standards issued on the follow up and presentation of audit conclusions. 
	 •	 Standards	 and	statements	of	the	International	Organization	of	Supreme	Audit	Institutions	in	regard	of	general	
requirements relating to performance audit, compliance audit and other audits , planning such audits, execution, 
reporting and follow up. 
	 •	 Presentation	of	reports	on	the	process	of	imposing	surcharges.	
(duration 03 Hours- 100 Marks, This question paper consists of essay type questions)
 
 b) advanced financial accounting 
	 •	 Format	for	Financial	Reporting
	 	 Objectives	 of	financial	reporting,	Objectives	of	each	component	in	financial	statements,	Identification	and	
measurement	of	components	in	financial	statements,	Hypotheses	and	their	significance	in	preparing	financial	
statements,	Key	features	of	financial	statements	and	improvement	of	such	features,	Concept	of	maintaining	
capital.
	 •	 Regulatory	Framework
	 	 Preparation	 and	presentation	of	financial	statements	in	terms	of	Companies	Act,	No.	07	of	2007,	Requirement	
for	business	entities	to	present	financial	statements	under	the	Sri	Lanka	Accounting	and	Auditing	Standards	Act,	
No.15 of 1995. 
	 •	 Sri	Lanka	 Accounting	Standards	
	 	 Requirement	 for	Accounting	Standards,		Comprehension	on	financial	instruments,	Fundamentals	on	Sri	Lanka	
accounting Standards for Small and Medium Scale enterprises. 
	 •	 Preparation	and	Presentation	of	Financial	Statements	for	Limited	Liability	Companies.	
	 	 Preparation	and	presentation	of	financial	statements	for	the	objectives	of	being	published.	
	 •	 Preparation	of	Cash	Flow	Statements	
	 •	 Analysis	of	Financial	Statements	
	 	 Computation	 of	accounting	ratios,	preparation	of	summary	reports	for	the	management	by	including	financial	
position,	performance	and	operating	efficiency	of	the	entity	using	ratios.

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
40a
	 •	 Consolidated	Financial	Statements.
	 	 Preparation	of	consolidated	financial	statements	with	adjustments.	
 (duration 03 hours, 100 Marks)
 c) Management and information Technology
	 •	 Introduction	to	Business	Management	
	 	 Basic	 concepts	 of	 management,	 Role	 of	 management,	 Management	 activities,	 Process	 of	 management,	
Productivity,	Efficiency	and	Productivity,	Challenges	faced	by	managers,	Management	of	crises	and	unforeseen	
events 
	 •	 Planning	and	Decision	Making
  Nature of plans, Types of plans, Planning process, Hindrances to planning process, approach to decision making, 
Process of logical decision making. 
	 •	 Organizational	Structure	and	Designing	
	 	 Basic	 concepts	of	organization,	Designing	organizational	structure,	Types	of	Departments,	Authority,	Responsibility	
and power, Contingent factors shaping the organizational structures, restructuring and reformation 
	 •	 Motivation	and	Leadership	
  role of leadership, Source of power for leaders, Theories of leadership, Motivation and theories of motivation. 
  utilization of the audit fund as  a powerful factor for motivation and productivity improvement. 
	 •	 Communication	in	Organizations	
	 	 Scope	 and	 nature	 of	 communication,	 Basic	 communication	 format,	 Bottlenecks	 for	 communication,	
Communication within organizations, Communication skills. 
	 •	 Control
  Nature and scope of control, Levels of control, Process of control, approaches to control. 
	 •	 Organizational	Culture	and	its	Effect	on	Organizations	
  role of organizational culture, Layers of organizational culture, integration process of the organizational culture, 
Models for analyzing organizational culture, Organizational culture and strategies. 
	 •	 Change	Management	
  forms of changes, resistance to change, Models for management of changes. 
	 •	 Good	 Governance	and	Social	Responsibility	of	an	Institution	Social	responsibility	of	an	institution,	Management	
of	ethics,	Their	impact	on	parties	and	organizations	interested	in	institutions,	Significance	of	good	governance,	
agency theory vs Stewardship theory, Control through risk management systems and good governance. 
	 •	 Strategic	Goals	of	Institutions	
  Types and nature of strategies of organizations, features of strategies, Strategic planning. 
	 •	 Operating	Management	
  introduction to operating management, Supply management , Quality management, Stock management, Capacity 
management 

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
41a
	 •	 Human	Resources	Management	
	 	 Activities	 and	nature	of	human	resource	management,	Employee	management	and	staffing,	Skills	management,	
management	of	benefits,	employees	and	labour	relations,	Psychological	contract	and	ethics	of	employment.		
	 •	 Information	Management	
	 	 Office	 automation,	System	Theory,	Information	systems	and	levels	of	management,	configuration	of	computer	
systems, intranet, extranet and internet, databases, Storage and retrieval of data, Knowledge management, 
Outsourcing, Call center and business process outsourcing.  
  using distant learning methods for human resource development. 
	 •	 Challenges	Faced	by	Institutions	in	the	new	Millennium.	
  Globalization, e-commerce and virtual consumers, new trends in commerce. 
(duration 02 hours-100 Marks. This question paper comprises essay type questions) 
	d)	 Report	Writing	and	Presentation	of	Information	to	the	Management
	 	 Accuracy	in	the	timeliness	of	management	information	and	significance	of	completeness.	
	 •	 Use	of	information
	 •	 Writing	notes	and	minutes	of	meetings	
	 •	 Structure	of	management	reports
	 •	 Interpretation	of	results
	 •	 Proposing	variables
	 •	 Use	of	naming	conventions	in	analyzing	data	
	 •	 Comparison	of	performance
	 •	 Use	of	percentages	and	ratios	of	management	reports	
	 •	 Representation	through	abstract	drawings
	 •	 Listening	to	professional	speeches	and	lectures	

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
42a
APPENDIX		 08
Syllabus of the Written Examination for Efficiency Bar of Class I Officers of Sri Lanka State Audit Service 
 1. This examination comprises 03 question papers
 (a) State auditing
 (b) Public finance Management
 (c) Strategic Management 
 2. Syllabus 
 (a) State auditing
  Planning an audit with respect to a given scenario, analysis of sample data, evaluation of audit evidence, 
execution of audit procedures further required and expression of audit opinion. 
(duration 03 hours – 100 Marks, This question paper consists of a case study and essay type questions )
 (b) Public finance Management
	 •	 Organizational	 structure	 of	 the	 Government	 and	 Provincial	 Councils,	 Government	 Corporations,	 Local	
Governments	and	Cooperative	enterprises;	and,	statutory	and	legal	frameworks	of	public	finance.		
	 •	 Financial	 Cycle	–	Planning,	Preparation	of	programs,	Preparation	of	budget,	Utilization	of	funds,	Assignment	of	
responsibilities	for	financial	control	in	terms	of	Financial	Regulation	135,	Accounting,	Reporting,	Evaluation	and	
auditing.  
	 •	 Performance	 budget	-	Fundamentals	of	methodologies	and	implementation,	Performance	indicators,	Types	of	
indicators, Selection of units and norms, analysis of evaluation systems and performance.  
	 •	 	Program	budget	–	Structure	of	programs,	Classification	of	activities,	Processess	of	programs,	Objects	on	projects	
and expenses. 
	 •	 Direct	and	indirect	subsidiaries.
	 •	 Sources	of	revenue	for	the	budget	of	the	Government	–		Inclusive	of	Public	debt,	Grants,	Foreign	aid.		
	 •	 Categories	of	expenses	relating	to	Government	Corporations	and	Local	Governments.
 c)  Strategic Management
 i. introduction to institutional Operations and Operating Management 
	 •	 Institutional	environment.
	 •	 Management	of	institutional	operations.		
	 •	 Analysis	of	values	
	 •	 Quality	management
	 •	 Human	resource	management
	 •	 Change	management
	 •	 Leadership	theories	and	their	use	
	 •	 Information	management
	 •	 Questions	 on	this	subject	shall	be	made	to	assess	the	knowledge	of	applicants	with	respect	to	the	utilization	of	
audit fund as a means of productivity improvement while encouraging the use of management and organizational 
principles;	use	of	this	theory	on	the	issues	in	public	sector;	the	five	modern	techniques	for	management	and	
techniques. 
 ii. introduction to Management
  introduction to business entities and nature of business operations, fundamentals of management, Management 
process. 

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'01'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 12.01.2024
43a
 iii. Operating Management 
  introduction to operating management, Supply chain management, Quality management, Stock management, 
Capacity management. 
 iv. Human resource development and Management
	 	 Nature	 and	 activities	 of	 Human	 resource	 management,	 Cadre	 planning	 and	 staffing,	 Skills	 management,	
management	of	benefits,	Employee-labor	relationship,	Psychological	contract	and	employment	ethics.	
  using distant Learning Methods for Human resource development 
 v. information Management
	 	 Office	 automation,	System	Theory,	Information	systems	and	levels	of	management,	configuration	of	computer	
systems, intranet, extranet and internet, databases, Storage and retrieval of data, Knowledge management, 
Outsourcing, Call center and business process outsourcing.  
 vi. Challenges faced by institutions in the new millennium. 
  Globalization, e-commerce and virtual consumers, new trends in commerce
(duration 03 hours – 100 Marks. This question paper consists of essay type questions)
eOG 01 - 0098
PriNTed aT THe deParTMeNT Of GOverNMeNT PriNTiNG,  Sri LaNKa.