

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
INLAND  REVENUE  (REGULATION OF
AMNESTY) ACT, No. 10 OF 2004
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 20th October, 2004]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 4.50
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 22, 2004

<!-- page 2 -->

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)
Act, No. 10 of 2004
1
[Certified on 20th October, 2004]
L.D.—O. 14/2004.
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  REGULATION  OF  THE  GRANT  OF  AN  AMNESTY
IN RESPECT  OF  THE  NON -PAYMENT  OR  NON -DISCLOSURE  OF  LIABILITY TO  PAY
INCOME  TAX  IN RESPECT  OF  DECLARATIONS  MADE  ON  OR  BEFORE  AUGUST
31, 2003 IN TERMS  OF  THE  REPEALED  INLAND  REVENUE  (SPECIAL
PROVISIONS ) ACT , NO . 7 OF  2002 AND  THE  INLAND  REVENUE  (SPECIAL
PROVISIONS ) ACT , NO . 10 OF  2003 ; TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  REPEAL  OF  THE
INLAND  REVENUE  (SPECIAL  PROVISIONS ) ACT , NO . 10 OF  2003 ;  AND
FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue
(Regulation of Amnesty) Act, No. 10  of 2004.
2. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this Act,
the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 2003
is hereby repealed.
(2) Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this Act, any
person who, on the day immediately prior to the enactment
of the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of
2003, was liable, to pay any tax, levy, penalty (including any
penalty in respect of any offence), or fine or to forfeiture in
terms of any of the laws specified in the Schedule to the
aforesaid Act, shall continue to be liable to the payment of
such tax, levy, penalty (including any penalty in respect of
any offence), forfeiture or fine, notwithstanding anything
done or any right or liberty acquired in terms of the provisions
of the aforesaid Act.
3. (1) Any person whether in Sri Lanka or abroad, who,
though required under the laws relating to the payment of
income tax for the time being in force, had not in relation to
any period prior to March 31, 2002 declared to the
Commissioner-General his liability to such tax or the sources
of his income and assets as at March 31, 2002, shall if such
Short title.
2–H 022751-10,200 (08/2004)
Repeal of Act,
No.10 of 2003.
Declarations
made prior to
August 31,
2003, deemed to
be declarations
made in terms of
this Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)
Act, No. 10 of 2004
2
person had on or before August 31, 2003 made a declaration
to the Commissioner-General disclosing his liability or
additional liability to the payment of income tax and all the
sources of his income and assets as at April 1, 2002, be deemed
to be a declaration made under this Act, and be entitled to an
amnesty in terms of this Act:
Provided that in granting the amnesty as set out above,
the Commissioner-General shall verify the correctness of the
declarations received by him and grant the amnesty only in
respect of such part of the declaration which discloses
information in relation to undeclared income, undeclared
assets and undeclared sources of income or additional income,
assets and sources of income.
(2) For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared—
(a) that any declaration made under the provisions—
(i) of the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 7 of 2002 shall in accordance with
the provisions of subsection (2) of section
11 of the Inland Revenue (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 2003 ; and
(ii)  of the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 10 of 2003, shall in accordance with
the provisions of subsection (1) of section 3
of this Act,
be deemed to be a declaration to which the
provisions of this section shall be applicable to ;
and
(b) that any reference to the Inland Revenue (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 2003 shall mean and
include the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 10 of 2003 as amended by the Inland Revenue
(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 31 of
2003.

<!-- page 4 -->

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)
Act, No. 10 of 2004
3
(3) The Commissioner-General or any officer not below
the rank of Deputy Commissioner authorised by him in that
behalf may, where necessary require the persons whose
declarations have been acknowledged to furnish him with
the necessary particulars or with additional particulars as
may be necessary for the purpose of assisting him in
determining whether or not the amnesty should be granted.
The particulars shall be furnished in the prescribed form within
two weeks of the date on which such information was
requested from him.
4. (1) (a) Subject to the provisions of this Act, no
prosecution shall be instituted for any offence committed by
a declarant referred to in section 3 of this Act and no
investigation shall be carried out against any declarant for
the imposition of income tax, wealth tax or surcharge on
income tax and wealth tax as the case may be, in accordance
with the provisions of any written law relating to the same for
the time being in force in so far as it relates to the amnesty
granted by the Commissioner-General in terms of section 3.
(b) Any person who has made a  declaration as is referred
to in section 3 of this Act, shall be entitled to immunity from
the payment of any income tax, wealth tax, or surcharge on
income tax and wealth tax as the case may be, together with
any penalty payable in respect of any disclosure of previously
undeclared income, assets or sources of income, for the period
ending on or  before March 31, 2002 :
Provided that no employer shall be exempt from the
payment of the tax and the penalty referred to in paragraphs
(1) (a) and (1) (b) above, in terms of the provisions of Chapter
XIV of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000 applicable to
the deduction of income tax from the remuneration of the
employees, or any other previous law applicable to the same.
(2) It shall be lawful for the Commissioner-General or any
other Authority administering the collection and recovery of
any tax, levy or penalty, (including any penalty in respect of
No investigation
or prosecution to
be carried out.

<!-- page 5 -->

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)
Act, No. 10 of 2004
4
any offence) forfeiture or fine in terms of any law referred to
in the Schedule of the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 10 of 2003,—
(a) to collect and recover any such tax, levy or penalty,
(including any penalty in respect of any offence)
forfeiture or fine, subsequently waived, discharged
or otherwise not recovered in accordance with the
provisions of the aforesaid Act, in the manner
provided for in terms of any law referred to in the
Schedule to the aforesaid Act under which any such
tax, levy or penalty, (including any penalty in
respect of any offence) forfeiture or fine was imposed;
and
(b) to issue assessments or any other orders as the case
may be, for any year of assessment or taxable period
ending on or before March 31, 2002, where any tax,
levy or penalty, (including any penalty in respect of
any offence) forfeiture or fine has been discharged
or refunded in terms of any law referred to in the
Schedule to the aforesaid Act notwithstanding the
fact that the period for the making of the same has
elapsed.
(3) No person shall in terms of this Act, be entitled to any
refund in respect of any money paid by him or recovered or
deducted in terms of any law referred to in the Schedule of
the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) Act,  No. 10 of 2003,
or to carry forward any loss in respect of any period ending
on or before March 31, 2002 to any subsequent year, by
reason of the fact  that he is entitled to the amnesty or immunity
so granted in respect of his income or part thereof. The amount
of undeclared income or the value of the undeclared assets of
such person shall be deemed to be the  income tax for the
purpose of ascertaining the amount of any such refund or for
the purpose of setting off against any refund claimed by such
person or for the purpose of setting off against such loss.

<!-- page 6 -->

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)
Act, No. 10 of 2004
5
(4) Any proceedings, investigation or inquiry which was
being conducted by the Commissioner-General or any
Authority administering the collection and recovery of any
tax, levy or penalty, (including any penalty in respect of any
offence) forfeiture or fine in terms of any law referred to in the
Schedule of the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 10 of 2003, and which has been, stopped, suspended or
withdrawn in terms of the aforesaid Act, shall from the date of
the coming into operation of this Act, be revived or restored
and continued with, as if such proceedings, investigation or
inquiry had not been so stopped, suspended or withdrawn.
5. The Commissioner-General or any officer of the
Department of Inland Revenue shall preserve and aid in
preserving absolute secrecy in respect of the identity of the
person making the declaration and any matter or thing
contained in any declaration referred to in section 3 of this
Act, as from the date of receipt of such declaration. All
provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000
applicable to the maintenance of official secrecy including
punishment for the breach of such secrecy under section 172
of such Act, shall mutatis mutandis be applicable to a
declaration made under this Act.
6. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purposes of carrying out or giving effect to the principles
and provisions of this Act, and in respect of matters that are
by this Act required to be prescribed.
(2) Every such regulation shall be published in the Gazette
and shall come into operation on the date of such publication
or on such later date as may be specified in the regulation.
(3) Every such regulation shall, as soon as convenient
after its publication in the Gazette, be brought before
Parliament for approval. Any such regulation that is not so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of
disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.
Secrecy.
Regulations.

<!-- page 7 -->

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)
Act, No. 10 of 2004
6
(4) Notification of the date on which a regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
8. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—
“assets” shall include immovable property, movable
property, bank balances, treasury bills, fixed deposits,
time deposits or any other form of deposit and money
given by way of security or loans and cash in hand ;
“Commissioner-General” shall have the same meaning as
in the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000 ;
“person” shall include a body of persons, a company and
a partnership ;
“sources of income” shall include any income received
by way of cash or in any other form.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)
Act, No. 10 of 2004
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.