

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
735
735
wxl 1"914 - 2015 uehs ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'05'08
No. 1,914 – FRIDAY , MAY 08, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 738
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 742
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th May, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th May,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—   Parts I:III, II and III of the Gazette No. 1,913 of 30.04.2015 were not published.
Note.—  Telecommunication Levy (Amendment) Bill and Betting and Gaming Levy (Amendment) Bill were published as a
supplements to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 27, 2015.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
736
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
737
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) D isqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
738
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th of June, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th April, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Ap plications must be sent
Gampaha Biyagama Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General) of Siyane Korale West General, District Secretariat,
Division in Meegahawatta Area Gampaha.
05–87
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
739
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th of June, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
22nd April, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called App lications must be sent
Colombo Colombo Post of Registrar of Birth and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Mampe Division General, District Secretariat,
Colombo.
Colombo Kesbewa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Salpiti Korale and Births and General, District Secretariat,
Deaths of Mampe Division Colombo.
Colombo Seethawaka Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Hewagam Korale and Birth and General, District Secretariat,
Deaths of Hanwella Division Colombo.
05–216
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
RATHNAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
740
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th of June, 2015.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
22nd of April, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Ap plications must be sent
Rathnapura Kahawatta Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Atakalan Koralaya and Birth and General, District Secretariat,
Deaths of Badalagama Area Rathnapura.
Rathnapura Eheliyagoda Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandian/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
General) of Marambe Area General, District Secretariat,
Rathnapura.
05–215
––––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING
Calling Applications for External Recruitment for the
Post of Offset Litho Press Operator in Class III of Grade
III of the Management Assistant Technical Service
Category
APPLICATIONS are called from eligible applicants, who have
fulfilled the following qualifications, for external recruitments to
the post of Litho Press Operator in Class III of Grade III of the
Management Assistant Technical Service Category of the Department
of Government Printing.
Salary Scale entitled for the post.– The salary scale entitled for
the post is Rs. 14,425 - 10x145 -11x170 - 6x240 - 14x320 -
Rs. 23,665 monthly.
Qualifications :
01. Applicants should be Sri Lankan citizens.
02. Should be of exemplary character and physically fit.
03. Should not be a member of clergy.
04. Should have passed six (06) subjects in one sitting with
credits for minimum four (04) subjects including
Mathematics, Medium Language out of Sinhala/Tamil/
English languages and Science at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination.
05. Experience of not less than ten (10) years in the relevant
field in a recognized institution. (The applicants should
affirm their contribution to the E. P. F. Fund/Pension Fund
for their service during this 10 year perod of service).
06. Should have  obtained National V ocational Qualification
(N. V . Q.) Level 4 relevant to the field.
Method of Recruitment.– N. V . Q. Level 5 test relating to Offset
Litho Press will be conducted for eligible applicants by the National
V ocational and Tertiary Education Commission or upon its
recommendation and a structured interview will be held for the
applicants, who obtained proficiency in the test. Persons qualified
will be recruited for the posts vacant in the order of marks obtained
after a general interview to check qualifications. Relevant certificates
will be awarded for the applicants, who excel at the National
V ocational Qualification test. Minimum 40% should be obtained to
pass the structured interview and no marks will be awarded at the
interview to check qualifications.
The above method of recruitment upon National V ocational
Qualifications (N. V . Q.) will be subject to amendments of the
National V ocational and Tertiary Education Commission.
Confirmation.– An officer appointed to Class III of Grade III
will be subject to a 3 year period of probation. He/She shall be
confirmed in service at the end of the period of probation upon
passing the First Efficiency Bar Examination, obtaining of langauge
proficiency in terms of provisions of the Public Administration
Circular No. 7/2007, diligently fulfilling duties of the post and
maintenance of good conduct and efficient service.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
741
Age.– Applicants should be not below 30 years and over 40
years of age.
* The qualifications stated here should be fulfilled in every
respect by 05.06.2015.
* Applicants, who are currently in Public Service, should
compulsorily fill Section 14 of the application.
* Duly filled applications prepared according to the specimen
given along with 'Application for External Recruitments
for the Post of Offset Litho Press Operator' indicated on
top left hand corner of the envelope should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Government Printer,
Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08 on or
before 05.06.2015.
* Any matter not mentioned here would depend on the
Printing Service Minute of the Department of Government
Printing.
* All officers recruited under this Service Minute should
abide by the provisions of the Establishments Code and
the Financial Regulations of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka, Rules, Regulations and Procedural
Rules imposed by the Public Service Commission,
Departmental Rules and any other provisions or Rule
imposed by the Government from time to time.
W. A. A. G . F
ONSEKA,
Government Printer (Actg.).
APPLICATION FOR EXTERNAL RECRUITMENTS TO
THE POST OF LITHO PRESS OPERATOR IN CLASS III OF
GRADE III OF THE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT
TECHNICAL SERVICE CATEGORY OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF  GOVERNMENT PRINTING
01. Name in full :–––––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :–
* In Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
* In English :–––––––––––––.
03. Address :–––––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :–––––––––––––.
05. Age as at 05.06.2015 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
06. Gender :–––––––––––––.
07. Marital Status :–––––––––––––.
08. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
09. Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
10. Whether a Sri Lankan citizen :–––––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications :
* G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Index No. :–––––––––––––. Year :–––––––––––––.
(i) ...................... (vi) ......................
(ii) ...................... (vii) ......................
(iii) ...................... (viii) ......................
(iv) ...................... (ix) ......................
(v) ...................... (x) ......................
* G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Index No. :–––––––––––––. Year :–––––––––––––.
(i) ......................
(ii) ......................
(iii) ......................
(iv) ......................
12. Experience in a recognized institution :–––––––––––––.
13. Professional Qualifications :–
(i) Have you obtained National Vocational Qualification
relating to Offest Lithography ? :–––––––––––––.
(ii) N. V. Q. Level obtained :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished abve are true and
accurate. Furthermore, I agree that I will not be eligible for the post
and will be dismissed from service if any of the above particulars
were proven false.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
14. Only the applicants, who are currently engaged in Public Service,
should fill the following :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished in 1 - 13 above are
accurate and this officer is eligible to face the interview. Furthermore,
if this officer is selected for the post, He/She shall be/shall not be
released from his/her current post.
–––––––––––––––,
Designation and the Signature of the
Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
742
15. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
* Signature of the applicant should attested by a Principal/
Retired Principal of a Government School, Grama Niladhari
Officer, Justice of Peace, Commissioned Officer of the Tri-
force, Officer in a Government of Local Government Service
or permanent Staff Grade with an annual consolidated salary
of Rs. 240,360 or above or Chief incumbent of a Buddhist
religious institution or a prelate of any other religious
institution with similar reverence.
I personally know the aforesigned Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................
and he/she has placed the signature before me.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
05–343
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
CEYLON - GERMAN  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
INSTITUTE - MORATUWA
(MINISTRY OF SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND
VOCATIONAL TRAINING)
Admission to Full Time Courses - 2015
(Under the National Apprenticeship Scheme)
APPLICATIONS are invited for admission of Male and Female
Trainees for the year 2015.
Minimum Qualifications required are as follows :-
01. ( a) Age.– Between 16-22 years as at 31.03.2015.
(b) Education.– Passed in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination including Sinhala/Tamil language (Medium
of Instruction) and Mathematics in one sitting.
Applicants who have special skills.– Candidates who have placed
among first three places in a Provincial level competition or obtain a
merit or above by a National Competition of Sri Lanka Inventors
Commission in Electrical/Electronic/Mechanical field and candidates
who have completed the above section (b) qualifications with not
less than two attempts are also qualified to sit for the examination.
Note.– Candidates following full time courses at National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA)
and bonded for period of 03 years or more are not eligible
to apply for these full time courses.
02. Course Medium .– All courses are conducting in Sinhala
medium. Only Automobile course will conduct in Tamil medium too.
03. Entrance Examination.– Applicants who possess the requisite
minimum qualifications will be allowed to sit the admission test
provided examination fees referred to in Column 4 below have been
paid.
(a) Medium.– Sinhala and Tamil.
(b) Examination Centers.– A written examination for admission
will be conducted at Centers in Colombo, Kandy, Galle,
Badulla, Anuradhapura and Vavuniya as indicated in the
application form given below.
Kindly note that if an adequate No. of candidates are not
available at particular centers then the management reserve
the right to change the centers by accommodating such
applications at the nearest center.
Examination Subjects .– The examination will consist of two
question papers technical knowledge, English knowledge and based
on Mathematics, General knolwedge, Intelligence test, Technical
Drawing.
04. Examination Fees. – Applicants should pay Rupees Four
Hundred only (Rs. 400) as examination fees.
Paying voucher of the Bank should be attached to the application.
The application should be forwarded together with the paying
voucher of the Bank.
Payment.– The payment can be made to the any Bank of Ceylon
Branch to the Accountant, Ceylon German Technical Training
Institute which credit to Account Number 681490 maintained at
Moratuwa Branch.
Paying vouchers that are defaced or erased will not be accepted.
Application which do not contain a credit voucher to the value will
be rejected. Examination fees will not be refunded to candidates
those who are not appearing for the examination or on rejection of
their applications for any other reason.
05. Primary Selection .– Primary selection of candidates for
admission will be merit based on the written examination and those
who obtain the required highest marks will be summoned for interview

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
743
for the final selection. Cutoff mark for less privileged provinces
would be decided by the Management of CGTTI. (Less privileged
provinces are decided according to Sri Lanka Examination
Department).
06. Final Selection.– Those who obtained highest marks from
aptitude test and interview would be considered for final selection.
40% marks are allocated for aptitude test and 60% for the interview.
Extra Curricular activities are specially considered.
The selected candidates will have to pass a medical examination
and those who fail the medical test will be discontinued.
07. Training Courses :
Automobile - 04 years
Millwright/Fitter - 04 years
Power Electrical - 03 1/2 years
Air-Con. and Ref. - 03 1/2 years
Tool Machinery - 03 1/2 years
Mechatronic Technology - 03 1/2 years
Auto Electrical - 03 years
Diesel Mechanics - 03 years
Welding - 03 years
Courses conducted at the Borella Branch :
Motor Vehicle Body
Repairer and Painter - 03 years
Auto Electrical - 03 years
Selected candidates will be allowed to follow the above mentioned
courses of training depending on the aptitude they show in the test
conducted after first year of basic training.
08. Bond to be signed .– All selected candidates are required to
enter in to a bond to under go full time training at CGTTI for periods
ranging from 04, 03 1/2, 03 years respectively in their allocated
Trades and enter in to agreement with the National Apprentice and
Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) as per their requirements.
In addition they have to serve Sri Lanka Transport Board for two
years after successful completion of their training if necessary.
09. Applications.– The application should be prepared as per
specimen form given below (A4 size) and photocopies following
certificates should also be attached with the application :
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) Educational Certificates ;
(c) Applicants who apply under special skills should forward
the certificate of provincial/National level competition
issued by Sri Lanka Inventors Commission.
The envelope in which application is enclosed should be marked,
"Recruitment of Apprentice - 2015" on the top left hand corner.
(Application forms can be down-loaded via the institute's web site
(www.cgtti.lk).
10. Closing date of applications.– Applications should be sent to
The Manager - Administration and Human Resources Ceylon German
Technical Training Institute, No. 582, Galle Road, Mount Lavinia
by registered post on or before 20th June, 2015.
11. Admission Cards.– Admission cards for the examination will
be sent to the all qualified candidates on around 09th August 2015. If
any candidate does not receive the admission card, contact over the
telephone given below within 14 days from that date.
12. Recruitment of trainees to the Borella Branch.– Based on the
waiting list of the above examination, trainees will be recruited to the
Borella branch after 03 months from the recruitment of trainees to
the Institute at Moratuwa.
Manager,
Administration and Human Resources.
Ceylon German Technical Training Institute,
No. 582, Galle Road,
Mount Lavinia (Angulana Junction),
Telephone : 0112605625.
APPLICATION  FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO FULL-TIME COURSES - 2015
(UNDER THE NATIONAL APPRENTICESHIP)
CEYLON GERMAN TECHNICAL TRAINING INSTITUTE - MORATUW A
1. ( a) Full Name (Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
(English) :––––––––––––.
(b) Names with initials :––––––––––––.
2. ( a) Postal Address :––––––––––––.
(b) District :––––––––––––.
(c) Province :––––––––––––.
3. ( a) Date of Birth :––––––––––––.
(b) Age as at 31.03.2015 :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
(c) NIC No. :––––––––––––.
(d) Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
4. Sex - Male/Female :––––––––––––.
5. Educational Qualifications : Subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) should
be indicated :
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
744
(Only for special skills applicants)
Second Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
............................. ............................
6. Specify the field and year of issue of the certificate (Provincial/
National) issued by the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission, if the
candidate is applying under the special skills category  :–––––.
7. ( a) Medium in which the candidate wishes to sit the Admission
test :––––––––––––.
(b) Center at which the candidate wishes to sit the Admission
test :––––––––––––.
(Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Anuradhapura, Badulla and
Vavuniya)
8. (i) Bank of Ceylon Branch and where payment was made :
––––––––––––.
(Valid copy of the paying in voucher to Rs. 400 is attached
herewith)
(ii) Date of payment :––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and accurate, if any particulars contained here are found to be
false or incorrect, liable for disqualification/dismissal before or after
selection.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
05–83
––––––––––––––––––
Professional Course in Teacher  Education in National Colleges of
Education.
2.0  Eligibility.– Every applicant should -
2.1 Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2.2 Possess  an excellent character  and sound physical and
mental health ;
2.3 Age:
2.3.1 Should not be more than 25 years of age as on
01. 01. 2015 ;
2.3.2 Buddhist Monks/ Buddhist Nuns who apply
for the Course of Buddhism should not be more
than 27 years of age as on 01. 01. 2015 ;
2.3.3 Clergy who apply for the course of Catholicism/
Christianity should not be more than 30 years
of age as on 01. 01. 2015 ;
2.4 Should be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications :
3.1 Should have passed three subjects in one sitting at the
G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013. (Two passes
only for estate workers children  for Sri Pada National
College of Education.)
(Applicants for Technological Studies – Crafts and Art
Course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.23,
applicants for Design and Construction Technology/
Design and Mechanical Technology/ Design and
Electrical and Electronic Technology Course should refer
to the NOTE in paragraph 4.24 and applicants for
Christianity/ Catholicism Course should refer to the
NOTE in paragraph 4.8.)
3.2 Should have passed  six core subjects including
Mathematics, Sinhala/ Tamil Language with three Credit
passes at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination/ Preliminary
Piriven Examination in not more than two sittings.
(Should have passed at least 5 core subjects at the first
sitting.)
Core Subjects .– (i) Religion, (ii) First Language,
(iii) English Language, (iv) Mathematics, (v) History,
(vi) Science/ Science and Technology, (vii) Aesthetic
Subjects (Art, Dancing, Music, Drama and Theatre,
Literature (Sinhala, Tamil, English, Arabic)),
(viii) Technical subjects (Agriculture, Commerce and
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to
Follow a Pre - Service Professional Course in Teacher
Education - 2015
1.0 Applications are invited from those who with requisite academic
qualifications and Eligibility to follow a Three Year Pre Service

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
745
Accounts, Handy craft) or one subject out of first and
third categories by the applicants who followed G .C.E.
(O/L) New Syllabus -2008.
Compulsory subjects of Preliminary Piriven final
examination are (i) Sinhala, (ii) Pali, (iii) Sanskrit,
(iv) English, (v) Mathematics, (vi) Thripitaka
     3.3 If the special qualifications in the G.C.E. (O/L)
examination mentioned under 3.2 have not been
completed in two sittings, they should have been
completed at the third sitting. (Special qualifications
will be considered only if the applicants have completed
the basic qualifications indicated at 3.1 and 3.2 above.
If special qualifications have not been especially
mentioned; only the qualifications mentioned under 3.1
and 3.2 will be considered.)
  3.4 English Language proficiency for the English Medium
Courses.
 3.4.1 Those who apply for English Medium courses
except for English Language Course should have
obtained a credit pass in English/ Ordinary pass
in English Literature at the G .C.E. (O/L)
Examination.
 3.4.2 Although the Courses on Information
Communication Technology and Western Music
are conducted in the English Medium, the
applicants are selected from those who have
appeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in Sinhala or Tamil or
English Medium concerning the number of
vacancies existing in Sinhala and Tamil Medium
schools.
3.5 Applicants who are called for interview for Art/ Dance
(Oriental)/ Dance (Bharatha)/ Music (Oriental)/ Music
(Carnatic)/ Drama and Theatre will be granted an
additional mark for the grades obtained in G .C.E (A/L)
for the relevant subject as given below.
A Grade -  0.5
B Grade -  0.3
C Grade -  0.2
S Grade -  0.1
3.6
Effective date of all the Educational/ Vocational
certificates should be on or before the closing date of
applications.
4.0 Educational Qualifications and Other Special
Qualifications  :
Educational qualifications and other special qualifications
applicable to each Course in National Colleges of Education are as
follows.
4.1 Course No.  01 - Primary Education (Sinhala)
 Primary Education (Tamil)
4.1.1 Three passes including Sinhala/ Tamil Language
at G.C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013.
(Two passes including Sinhala/ Tamil Language
only for estate workers children for Sripada
National College of Education),
and
4.1.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core
subjects including Credit passes in Sinhala/ Tamil
Language and Mathematics and a pass in English.
NOTE -
· Applicants selected to follow Primary Education
course should serve continuously in primary
section in the government schools after completing
the course.  Four Sinhala medium teachers and
one Tamil medium teacher of primary education
will be attached to the Primary Education Unit
established in Lady Ridgeway Hospital for children
for one year service.
¾¾¾¾¾ In addition to the Art stream, the applicant who
followed the Science/ Mathematics/ Commerce
Streams is also can apply for the course of Primary
Education for the year 2016.
4.2 Course No. 02 - Science (Sinhala)
Science (Tamil)
Science (English)
4.2.1 Three passes in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2013 in the following
subjects: Physics, Chemistry and Biology. (Two
passes among the above subjects including Biology
for Sripada National College of Education only for
estate workers children) ;
and
 4.2.2 Passed at G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects with a pass in Sinhala/ Tamil Language and
a Credit pass  in Mathematics.
 NOTE : Science (English Medium) Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the
qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 from each
secretarial division, and appeared for G.C.E.
(A/L) in the English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the
qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2, obtained from
each secretarial division, and appeared for G .C.E.
(A/L) in the Sinhala/ Tamil Medium. If 50% of
the qualified applicants as per (i) is not available
applicants will be selected as per (ii).

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
746
4.3 Course No. 03 – Mathematics (Sinhala)
Mathematics (Tamil)
Mathematics (English)
4.3.1 Three passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) examination held
in Year 2013 in the following subjects:
Mathematics, Combined Mathematics or Higher
Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry. (Two
passes in one of the following subjects including
Mathematics, Combined Mathematics and Higher
Mathematics only for estate workers children for
Sripada National College of Education),
and
4.3.2 Passed at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core
subjects with   a pass in Sinhala/ Tamil Language
and a Credit pass in Science.
NOTE:  Mathematics (English Medium)
Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the
qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 from each
secretarial division, and appeared for G.C.E.
(A/L) in the English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the
qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 from each
secretarial division, and appeared for G.C.E.
(A/L) in the Sinhala/ Tamil Medium. If 50% of
the qualified applicants as per (i) is not
available applicants will be selected as per (ii).
4.4 Course No. 04 - Social Science (Tamil)
# (Social Science course will be conducted only
for Tamil medium students in Sripada National
College of Education. Only the applicants
mention in para 6.3 can be applied for this course)
4.4.1 Passed three (03) subjects including one subject
out of History, Political Science and Geography at
G.C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013. But
estate workers children should pass only two (02)
subjects including one subject out of History,
Political Science and Geography at G .C.E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2013.
and
4.4.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core
subjects including Tamil Language and Mathematics
and with a Credit pass for Social Science and History
or Citizenship Studies/ Geography/ History.
4.5 Course No. 05 - Buddhism
Buddhist Priests/ Nuns and the Laity can apply for the
Course of Buddhism. (Laity candidates should have
completed all educational qualifications in their laity
name.)
4.5.1 Passed G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013
with three subjects including two out of Buddhism,
Buddhist Civilization, Pali and Sinhala.
4.5.2 Passed Pracheena, Preliminary examination.
4.5.3 Passed Bauddha Dharmacharya examination.
4.5.4 Passed Daham School Final examination.
4.5.5 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Sinhala Language, Buddhism
and Mathematics / passed Preliminary Pirivena
Final examination in six (06) compulsory subjects
with Sinhala Language, Mathematics and Tripitaka
Dharma.
NOTE
(i) Priority order in selection-
(a) Applicants having all certificates 4.5.1,
4.5.2, 4.5.3, 4.5.4 and 4.5.5
(b) Applicants having certificates 4.5.1, 4.5.2
and 4.5.5
(c) Applicants having certificates 4.5.1, 4.5.3
and 4.5.5
(d) Applicants having certificates 4.5.1,4.5.4
and 4.5.5
(e) Applicants  having certificates 4.5.1 and
4.5.5
4.6 Course No. 06 – Hinduism
4.6.1 Three passes in one sitting including one of the
following subjects – Hinduism, Hindu Civilization
and Sanskrit in the G.C.E. (A/L) examination held
in Year 2013,
4.6.2 Candidates having Shaiva Siddhantha Pandithar
Certificate,
4.6.3 Candidates having Shaiva Pulaver Certificate,
4.6.4 Candidates having Ilang Shaiva Pulaver Certificate,
4.6.5 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics
and Hinduism.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
747
Note: Priority order in selection
(a) Candidates having 4.6.1, 4.6.5 and all other
certificates.
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.4, 4.6.5
and one certificate out of other two.
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.5 and one
certificate out of other three.
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.5
4.7 Course No. 07 – Islam
4.7.1 Three passes including one of the following
subjects – Islam, Islamic Civilization and Arabic
in the G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013,
4.7.2 Passed all subjects in Al – Alim Preliminary
Examination and Passed all subjects in Al – Alim
Final Examination,
4.7.3 Passed all subjects in Al – Alim Preliminary
Examination,
4.7.4 Having Moulavi Certificate,
4.7.5 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core
subjects with Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Islam.
Note: Priority order in selection
(a) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 4.7.3,
4.7.4 and 4.7.5
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.3, 4.7.4
and 4.7.5
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.4 and 4.7.5
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1 and 4.7.5
4. 8 Course No. 08 – Catholicism/ Christianity (Sinhala)
Catholicism/ Christianity (Tamil)
4.8.1 Passed any three subjects at G .C.E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2013 and passes in six
core (06) subjects including  Sinhala/ Tamil
Language and Mathematics at G .C.E. (O/L)
examination;
and
Ordinary pass for Christianity/ Christian
Civilization in G .C.E. (A/L) examination or Credit
pass for Catholicism/ Christianity in G .C.E. (O/L)
examination;
and
The Certificate of Catholic Bishop for Catholics
to be a teacher of Catholicism and the certificate of
National Christian Council for Christians to be a
teacher of Christianity.
4.8.2 Selection of Catholicism Candidates will be made
by giving priority in the order of following
qualifications:-
4.8.2.1 Four year course certificate on Theology
(BTH);
or
4.8.2.2 Christian Philosophy certificate conducted by
the National Seminary;
or
4.8.2.3 Three year religious education course certificate
in Deva Dharma Nikethanaya;
or
4.8.2.4 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant
Bishop of the Clergy Sect that the candidate
has successfully completed the study of the
religious education and training course
(Novitiate) to become a member of the clergy;
or
4.8.2.5 Passed the Catholic Dharmacharya examination
conducted by the National Catechetical Centre
Namely Dharmacharya Hons (Dahamguru 3)
or
Dharmacharya Special (Dahamguru 2)
or
Dharmacharya Ordinary (Dahamguru 1)
or
4.8.2.6 Passed Christianity/ Christian Civilization in
G .C.E. (A/L) examination.
4.8.3 Selection of candidates for Christianity will be
made according to the qualifications indicated in
the following order.
4.8.3.1 Should have obtained Dharma - Vedi Diploma
conducted by Lanka Theological College,
Pilimatalawa.
4.8.3.2 Should have obtained National Certificate on
Religious Knowledge (Dharmacharya)
conducted by National Christianity Council.
Note:
 Those who anticipate for the course of
Catholicism/ Christianity at National Colleges
of Education in 2017 in addition to the
qualification under section 4.8.2 the three year
certificate from "Aquinas College of Higher
Studies" and the Certificate for Catholic
Daham School Final Exam will be considered.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
748
(i) To select 85% from all admissions, Catholic
candidates qualified under 4.8.1 will be selected
on the serial order shown under 4.8.2. When 85%
of Catholic candidates have not applied, Christian
candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
(ii) 15% of the total number of admissions will be
selected from among Christian candidates qualified
under 4.8.1 according to the serial order shown
under 4.8.3. If 15% Christian candidates have not
applied, Catholic candidates will be selected for
such vacancies.
(iii) 40% of the total number of admissions will be
selected from Catholic and Christian Clergy. If
the required percentage 40% of vacancies cannot
be filled out of clergy, selection will be made from
laity applicants.
(iv) In case of sufficient applicants of the Clergy who
have passed G.C.E. (A/L) in 2013 are not available,
those (clergy)  who have passed the G .C.E. (A/L)
examination immediately preceding the years
2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 will be selected
considering the nearest year to 2013. If 40% of
the Clergy candidates have not applied layman
candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
4.9 Course No. 09 - First Language (Sinhala)
4.9.1 Passed G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013
in three subjects including a Credit pass for Sinhala
subject.
and
4.9.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
Subjects including Mathematics and a Credit pass
in Sinhala Language.
4.10 Course No. 10 - First Language (Tamil)
4.10.1 Passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013
in three subjects including a Credit pass for Tamil
subject. (Two passes including Tamil only for the
estate workers children for Sri Pada National
College of Education, Priority will be given to those
who have a credit pass for Tamil Language at G .C.E.
(A/L) examination.),
and
4.10.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
Subjects including Mathematics and a Credit pass
in Tamil Language.
4.11 Course No.  11 -    English
4.11.1 Passed three subjects  at G.C.E. (A/L) examination
in Year 2013 including English Language (Subject
No. 73) and at G.C.E. (O/L) examination with Credit
pass for English Language/ Ordinary pass in English
Literature and six core subjects including Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Mathematics at G .C.E.(O/L)
examination/ London G .C .E (O/L) Examination.
4.11.2 Pa ssed any three subjects at G .C.E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2013 and passed G.C.E.
(O/L) examination at least with a  Credit pass in
English Literature and pass six core subjects
including Sinhala/ Tamil Language, Mathematics and
English Language.
4.11.3 Pa ssed any three subjects at G .C.E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2013 and passed G.C.E.
(O/L) examination at least with a Very Good pass
in English Language and pass six core subjects
including Sinhala/ Tamil Language and Mathematics.
NOTE :
Priority order in selection
(i) Applicants qualified under 4.11.1
Selection will be done according to the order of
the Z Score in the secretarial division and according
to the Para 6.1.2. Although studied English
Language (Subject No. 73) and fulfilled other
qualifications at G .C.E. (A/L) 2013, candidates
will not be selected if vacancies are not in relevant
secretarial division.
(ii) Applicants qualified under 4.11.2
Selection will be done according to the order of
the marks given to the obtained grades for the
English Literature at G.C.E. (O/L) examination in
the secretarial division and according to the Para
6.1.2. (Consider Distinction pass - A, Very Good
pass - B and Credit pass - C only)
(iii) Applicants qualified under 4.11.3
Selection will be done according to the order of
the marks given to the obtained grades for the
English Language at G .C.E. (O/L) examination in
the secretarial division and according to the Para
6.1.2. (Consider Distinction pass - A and Very
Good pass - B only)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
749
4.13 Course No.  13 – Art (Sinhala)
Art (Tamil)
4.13.1 Passed three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) examination
held in Year 2013 including Art. (Passed two
subjects including Art only for estate workers
children for Sripada National College of
Education)
and
4.13.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core
subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics and Art.
4.13.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the
Grade Obtained for Art/ Art and Sculpture at
G .C.E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2013 as per
section 3.5.
# Sripada National College of Education
conducts the Art Course only for Tamil
Medium Students.
NOTE: (If a sufficient number of applicants who have
fulfilled the required qualifications for Sripada
National College of Education are not available,
the priority will be given for the Tamil medium
non estate workers with Indian origins who are
in secretarial divisions of estate district. They
should have passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination
held in Year 2013 with three subjects including
Art in Tamil medium. If vacancies exist beyond
this, estate workers children who have passed
G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013
with two subjects in one sitting and obtained a
credit pass for Art/ Art and Sculpture in G .C.E.
(O/L) examination will be considered for
selection.)
4.14 Course No.  14 –    Dance (Oriental)
4.14.1 Passed three (03) subjects including Dance at
G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013.
and
4.14.2 Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Sinhala Language, Mathematics
and Dance.
4.14.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the
Grade Obtained for Dance in G .C.E. (A/L)
Examination in Year 2013 as per section 3.5.
4.15 Course No.  15 –    Dance (Bharatha)
4.15.1 Passed three (03) subjects including Bharatha
Natyam at G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year
2013. (Passed two subjects including Bharatha
Natyam only for estate workers children for
Sripada National College of Education)
and
4.15.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics
and Bharatha Natyam.
4.15.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the
Grade Obtained  for Bharatha Natyam in G .C.E.
(A/L) Examination in Year 2013 as per section
3.5.
NOTE: (If a sufficient number of applicants who have
fulfilled the required qualifications for Sripada
National College of Education are not available,
the priority will be given for the Tamil medium
non estate workers with Indian origins who are in
secretarial divisions of estate district. They should
have passed G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year
2013 with three subjects including Bharatha Dance
in Tamil medium. If vacancies exist beyond this,
estate workers children who have passed G .C.E.
(A/L) examination held in Year 2013 with two
subjects in one sitting and obtained a credit pass
for Bharatha Natyam in G .C.E. (O/L) examination
will be considered for selection.)
4.16 Course No. 16 - Music (Oriental)
4.16.1 Passed three (03) subjects including Music at
G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013.
and
4.16.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Sinhala Language,
Mathematics and Music.
4.16.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the
Grade Obtained for Music in G .C.E. (A/L)
Examination in Year 2013 as per  section 3.5.
4.17 Course No. 17 - Music (Carnatic)
4.17.1 Passed three (03) subjects including Carnatic Music
at G.C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013.
(Passed two subjects including Carnatic Music only
for estate workers children for Sripada National
College of Education)
and
4.17.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects
including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Carnatic
Music.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
750
4.17.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the
Grade Obtained for Carnatic Music in G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination in Year 2013 as per section 3.5.
NOTE: (If a sufficient number of applicants who have
fulfilled the required qualifications for Sripada
National College of Education are not available,
the priority will be given for the Tamil medium
non estate workers with Indian origins who are
in secretarial divisions of estate district. They
should have passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination
held in Year 2013 with three subjects including
Carnatic Music in Tamil medium. If vacancies
exist beyond this,   estate workers children who
have passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination held in
Year 2013 with two subjects in one sitting and
obtained a credit pass for Carnatic Music in
G.C.E. (O/L) examination will be considered
for selection.)
4.18 Course No.  18 –    Western Music (English)
4.18.1 Passed three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) examination
held in Year 2013 including Western Music.
and
Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects with passes for Sinhala/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics and Western Music and, with a
Credit pass for English Language or an ordinary
pass for English Literature.
or
4.18.2 Passed any three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2013.
and
Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core
subjects with passes in Sinhala/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics and Western Music with a Credit
pass in English Language or an ordinary pass in
English Literature.
and
Passed Grade five in Western Music (Theory
and Practical) from a recognized institute
approved by the Colleges of Education Board.
or
Passed Western Music at G .C.E. (A/L)
examination as an additional subject.
NOTE:
(i) Applicants should reach a satisfactory level of
performance at the practical test conducted for
Western Music Course.
(ii) In selection, priority will be given to applicants
qualifying under 4.18.1.
4.19 Course No. 19 – Drama and Theatre (Sinhala)
Drama and Theatre (Tamil)
4.19.1 Passed three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L) examination
held in Year 2013 including Drama and Theatre.
and
4.19.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics and Drama and Theatre/ Music/
Art or Dance.
4.19.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the
Grade Obtained for Drama and Theatre in G .C.E.
(A/L) Examination in Year 2013 as per section
3.5.
NOTE: Priority will be given to the Applicants
who have passed Drama & Theatre at
G .C.E. (O/L) examination. In case of
sufficient applicants who have passed
Drama and Theatre at G .C.E. (O/L)
examination are not available in any
secretarial division those who have passed
Music/ Art/ Dance at G.C.E. (O/L)
examination will be considered.
4.20 Course No. 20 - Physical Education (Sinhala)
Physical Education (Tamil)
Physical Education (English)
4.20.1 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G.C.E.
(A/L) examination held in Year 2013.
and
4.20.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil Language,
Health and Physical Education and Mathematics.
and
4.20.3 Achievements/ performances of the recognized
Track and Field Athletics and Organized Sports.
A maximum of 75 marks will be  awarded for
three various games/ events in the following
priority order.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
751
PRIORITY ORDER OF SPORTS/ EVENTS
Se.No. Levels/ Subject Single Team Place/Grade Marks
1 International  Level single ---- 1 25
2 International  Level single ---- 2 24
3 International  Level single ---- 3 23
4 International  Level ---- team 1 22
5 International  Level ---- team 2 21
6 International  Level ---- team 3 20
7 International level Representation single team ---- 19
8 National Level single ---- 1 18
9 National Level single ---- 2 17
10 National Level single ---- 3 16
11 National Level ---- team 1 15
12 National Level ---- team 2 14
13 National Level ---- team 3 13
14 Provincial Level single ---- 1 12
15 Provincial Level single ---- 2 11
16 Provincial Level single ---- 3 10
17 Provincial Level ---- team 1 09
18 Provincial Level ---- team 2 08
19 Provincial Level ---- team 3 07
20 Regiment Sergeant Major /Warrant Officer 1 ---- ---- ---- 06
21 Presidents’ Scout/ Girl Guide ---- ---- ---- 06
22 Sergeant  Major /Warrant Officer 2 ---- ---- ---- 05
23 District Level/Zonal/ Divisional Secretariat Level single ---- 1 06
24 District Level/Zonal/ Divisional Secretariat Level single ---- 2 05
25 District Level/Zonal/ Divisional Secretariat Level single ---- 3 04
26 District Level/Zonal/ Divisional Secretariat Level ---- team 1 03
27 District Level/Zonal/ Divisional Secretariat Level ---- team 2 02
28 District Level/Zonal/ Divisional Secretariat Level ---- team 3 01
4.20.4 Additional points will be granted for the grade
obtained in Health and Physical Education at
G .C.E. (O/L) examination as given below.
A Pass -  05
B Pass -  03
C Pass -  02
S  Pass -  01
NOTE:
(i) Recognized Sports Competitions
(International) – Participation at  International
Competitions representing Sri Lanka  National
Teams or School National Sports Teams (except
Chess, Carom  and Draught) through Ministry of
Education/ Ministry of Sports and their registered
Sports Associations.(Participation in International
competitions on personal basis by school sports
teams will not be considered.)
(ii) Recognized Sports Competitions – National level
competitions organized by the Ministry of
Education/ Ministry of Sports/ National Youth
Services Council.
Provincial level competitions organized by the
Provincial Ministry of Education/ Provincial
Ministry of Sports/ National Youth Services
Council.
District Level Competitions organized by the
Provincial Ministry of Education/ Provincial
Ministry of Sports/ National Youth Services
Council.
Zonal level competitions organized by the
Provincial Ministry of Education.
(iii) 1
st 2 nd and 3 rd places in ‘A’ Grade Competitions
organized by Sports Associations registered under

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
752
the Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Education
will only be given priority in order.
(iv) Certificates gained for Sports performance/achievements
within the preceding five years before the closing date
of the application will only be valid.
(v) Marks will be awarded to the highest certificate obtained
for the same event in the same year out of three
certificates.
4.21 Course No. 21 – Home Economics (Sinhala)
Home Economics (Tamil)
4.21.1 Passed three subjects including Home Economics
at G.C.E. (A/L) examination in Year 2013.
and
4.21.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil Language,
Mathematics and Science.
4.22 Course No.  22 – Agriculture and Food
Technology (Sinhala)
Agriculture and Food
Technology (Tamil)
4.22.1 Passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year
2013 with Agriculture, Biology and Chemistry.
and
Passed G.C.E. (O/L) in six core (06) subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language with Credit
passes for Mathematics and Science.
4.22.2 Passed three subjects including Agriculture/
Agricultural Technology/ Bio – Resource
Technology/ Food Technology at G .C.E. (A/L)
examination in Year 2013.
and
Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core
subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil Language with
Credit passes for Mathematics, Science and
Agriculture / Agriculture and Food Technology.
NOTE :Priority order for selection
(a) Applicants who possess a certificate for
successfully completing an agriculture course for
one year or more in a recognized Government
Agriculture College in addition to 4.22.1
qualifications.
(b)  Applicants qualified under 4.22.1
(c) Applicants qualified under 4.22.2
4.23 Course No. 23 – Technical Studies – Crafts and
Art (Sinhala)
Technical Studies – Crafts and
Art (Tamil)
4.23.1 Passed any three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2013.
and
4.23.2 Passed six core subjects in G.C.E. (O/L)
examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Craft and Art/  Art and Craft.
and
4.23.3 Followed and successfully completed (in not less
than 10 months) a Technical Course which is
relevant to the subject area, and formally issued
indicating the subject performance level and
conducted by a Government approved Technical
College/ National  Apprentice Board/ V ocational
Training Authority/ Textile Industries
Department/ Industrial Development and
Enterprise Promotion Department/ Other
Institutions Governed by Central/ Provincial
Ministries.
NOTE :
 (i) Priority Order of Selection:
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.23.1, 4.23.2
and 4.23.3
(b) Applicants having Certificates   4.23.1 and
4.23.2
If a sufficient number of qualified applicants
as per (a) is not available, in each secretarial
division the applicants who have passed
G .C.E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2012
and 2011 will be considered as per (a). If
further vacancies are available the applicants
who have passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination
in the Years 2013, 2012 and 2011 as per (b)
will be considered.
(ii) In the application, under the selection 16.1 it
must be clearly indicate the applying field of the
course as Crafts and Art.
(iii)
All requirements indicated above should have
been completed on or before the closing date of
the applicatio ns.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
753
4.24 Course No. 24 – A Design and Construction
Technology (Sinhala)
24 –  B Design and Mechanical
Technology (Sinhala)
24 – C Design and Electrical and
Electronic Technology
(Sinhala)
24 –  A Design and Construction
Technology (Tamil)
24 –  B Design and Mechanical
Technology (Tamil)
24 – C Design and Electrical and
Electronic Technology (Tamil)
4.24.1 Passed three subjects including one of the
following components in Hard Technology at
G .C.E. (A/L) examination in Year 2013.
(i) Civil Technology
(ii) Mechanical Technology
(iii) Electrical, Electronic and Information
Technology
or
4.24.2 P assed any three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2013.
and
4.24.3 Passed six (06) core subjects at G .C.E. (O/L)
examination including Mathematics, Sinhala/
Tamil Language, and one subject out of following
subjects, Construction Technology/ Mechanical
Technology/ Electric and Electronic Technology/
Design and Technology.
and
4.24.4 Followed and successfully completed (in not less
than 10  months) a Technical Course which is
relevant to the subject area, and formally issued
indicating the subject performance level and
conducted by a Government approved Technical
College/ National  Apprentice Board/ V ocational
Training Authority/ Industrial Development
and Enterprise Promotion Department/ Other
Institutions Governed by Central/ Provincial
Ministries.
NOTE :
(i) Priority Order of Selection:
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.24.1, 4.24.3
and 4.24.4
(b) Applicants having Certificates 4.24.2, 4.24.3
and 4.24.4
If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as
per (a) and (b) are not available, in each secretarial
division the applicants who have passed G .C.E.
(A/L) Examination in the Years 2012 and 2011
will be considered as per (a) or (b) mentioned in
this Gazette notification.
(ii) In the application, under the selection 16.1 it
must be clearly indicate the applying field of the
course as Design and Construction Technology/
Design and Mechanical Technology/ Design and
Electrical and Electronic Technology.
(iii)
All requirements indicated above should have
been completed on or before the closing date of
the applications.
4.25 Course No. 25 – Information Communication
Technology (English)
4.25.1 Passed in three subjects including Information
Communication Technology at the G .C.E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2013. (Two subjects
only including Information Communication
Technology for the estate workers children),
and
Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination with six (6)
core subjects including Credit pass for English
Language/ an ordinary pass for English Literature
and at least a Very Good pass for Information
Communication T echnology, Sinhala/ Tamil
Language and Mathematics.
(Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination with six (6)
core subjects including English Language,
Information Communication Technology, Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Mathematics for the estate
workers children only),
4.25.2 Passed in three subjects including Information
Communication Technology at least with a Very
Good pass at the G .C.E. (A/L) examination held
in Year 2013. (Two subjects only including
Information Communication Technology for the
estate workers children)
and
Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core
subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil Language and
with a Credit pass for English Language/ an
ordinary pass for English Literature and credit
pass for Mathematics.
(Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core
subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil Language,
English and with a Credit pass  for Mathematics
for the estate workers children only),

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
754
4.25.3 Passed in Mathematics Stream with three
subjects at the G.C.E. (A/L) examination held in
Year 2013. (Only two subjects in Mathematics
Stream for the estate workers children),
and
Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination with six (6)
core subjects including a Credit pass for English
Language/ an ordinary pass for English Literature
and at least a Very Good pass for Information
Communication Technology and pass Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Mathematics.
(Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination with six (6)
core subjects including English Language,
Information Communication Technology, Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Mathematics for the estate
workers children only),
4.25.4 Passed in Science Stream with three subjects at
the G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2013.
(Only two subjects in Science Stream for the
estate workers children),
and
Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination with six (6)
core subjects including a Credit pass for English
Language/ an ordinary pass for English Literature
and at least a Very Good pass for Information
Communication Technology and pass Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Mathematics.
(Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination with six (6)
core subjects including English Language,
Information Communication Technology, Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Mathematics for the estate
workers children only),
4.25.5 Passed in Art or Commerce Stream with three
subjects at the G.C.E. (A/L) examination held in
Year 2013. (Only two subjects in Art or
Commerce Stream for the estate workers
children),
and
Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination with six (6)
core subjects including a Credit pass for English
Language/ an ordinary pass for English Literature
and Distinction pass for Information
Communication Technology and pass Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Mathematics.
(Passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination with six (6)
core subjects including English Language,
Information Communication Technology, Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Mathematics for the estate
workers children only),
# For Information Communication Technology
course, children of Estate employees will be
selected on similar basis of other courses, but
they should follow the course at Ruwanpura
National College of Education.
NOTE:  Priority order in selection
Selection will be done according to the order of
the Z Score in each secretarial division and
according to the Para 6.1.2.
(i) Applicants qualified under 4.25.1
(ii) Applicants qualified under 4.25.2
(iii) Applicants qualified under 4.25.3
(iv) Applicants qualified under 4.25.4
(v) Applicants qualified under 4.25.5
y Those who pass the General Information
Technology (GIT) in Grade 12  and those who obtain
NVQ (National Vocational Qualification) Level 03
Certificate for Information and Communication
Technology also suggested to be considered when
selecting the Information Communication
Technology course in 2018.
4.27 Course No.   27 – Business and Accounting
(Sinhala)
Business and Accounting
(Tamil)
4.27.1 Having three passes in one sitting including Accounting
and Business Studies (in the commerce stream) at G .C.E.
(A/L) examination held in  2013.
and
4.27.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects
including Sinhala/ Tamil Language and English  with at
least a credit pass for one of these three subjects -
Business and Accounting/ Entrepreneurship Studies and
Mathematics,
4.30 Course No. 30 - Second National
Language (Sinhala)
4.30.1 Passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year
2013 in three subjects including a Credit pass in
Sinhala.
and
4.30.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala
Language.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
755
NOTE: The order of priority will be given to those who
have followed Tamil as a Second National
Language at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination/ Second
National Language (Advanced) Certificate in
Tamil issued by the Official Language
Department/Optional Second National Language
at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination.
4.31 Course No. 31 - Second National Language
(Tamil)
4.31.1 Passed G .C.E. (A/L) examination held in Year
2013 in three subjects including a Credit pass in
Tamil.
and
4.31.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Mathematics and Tamil
Language.
NOTE: The order of priority will be given to those who
have followed Sinhala as a Second National
Language at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination/ Second
National Language (Advanced) Certificate in
Sinhala issued by the Official Language
Department/ Optional Second National Language
at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination.
4.32 Course No.  32 – Special Education (Sinhala)
Special Education (Tamil)
4.32.1 P assed any three subjects at G.C.E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2013.
and
4.32.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) examination in six core
subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil Language and
Mathematics.
NOTE: The applicants of this course are considered to
appoint as teachers to teach those of special
educational needs such as visually- impairments,
hearing- impairments, multi - impairments,
autism, learning - difficulties and intellectual
deficiencies. Hence, only those who sign an
agreement to serve only in these special units
where the impaired children learn should apply.
5.0 Number of the Course, Name of the Course and the
Medium of the National Colleges of Education where each
course will be conducted and the respective number of the
NCoE are given below.
Refer the chart carefully and identity the number of your course
correctly before filling in the application form. Your application
will be computerized referring to your Course number. Applications
that are filled with incorrect information will be rejected. No alteration
is permitted after your application is sent to the Branch of National
Colleges of Education, Ministry of Education.
(i) Column – Course Number
(ii) Column – Course Name
(iii) Column – NCoEs where Sinhala medium Courses are
conducted.
(iv) Column - NCoEs where Tamil medium Courses are
conducted.
(v) Column - NCoEs where English medium Courses are
conducted.
(The numbers of the National College of Education are
given within brackets.)
Course NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Course Name Sinhala Medium T amil Medium English Medium
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v)
01 Primary Education (1) Uva (6) Vavuniya
(2) Nilwala (7) SriPada
(3) Mahaweli (8) Addalaichenai
(4) Sariputta (9) Batticaloa
(Dambadeniya)
(7) Sripada (15) Jaffna
(10) Pasdunrata (16) Dharga Town
(11) Pulathisipura
(12) Wayamba
(13) Ruwanpura
(14) Ruhuna
(17) Hapitigam
02 Science (2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) Sripada (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
756
03 Mathematics (2) Nilwala (7) Sripada (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (8) Addalaichenai (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (15) Jaffna (15) Jaffna
(10) Pasdunrata
04 Social Science (7) Sripada
05 Buddhism (4) Sariputta/
Dambadeniya
06 Hinduism (6) Vavuniya
07 Islam (8) Addalaichenai
08 Catholicism/Christianity (12) Wayamba (6) Vavuniya
09 First Language (Sinhala) (18) Peradeniya
10 First Language (Tamil) (7) Sripada
(16) Dharga Town
(18) Peradeniya
11 English (3) Mahaweli
(10) Pasdunrata
(15) Jaffna
(18) Peradeniya
13 Art (12) Wayamba (7) Sripada
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
14 Dance (Oriental) (12) Wayamba
15 Dance (Bharatha) (7) Sripada
(15) Jaffna
16 Music (Oriental) (12) Wayamba
17 Music (Carnatic) (7) Sri Pada
(15) Jaffna
18 Western Music (3) Mahaweli
19 Drama and Theatre (12) Wayamba (9) Batticaloa
20 Physical Education (1) Uva (6) Vavuniya (1) Uva
(9) Batticaloa
21 Home Economics (14) Ruhuna (6) V avuniya
(16) Dharga Town
22 Agriculture and Food Technology (11) Pulathisipura (6) V avuniya
23 Technical Studies - Craft and Art (5) Siyane (9) Batticaloa
24 Design and Construction (5) Siyane (9) Batticaloa
Technology/Design and
Mechanical Technology/Design and
Electrical and Electronic Technology
25 Information Communication Technology (13) Ruwanpura
27 Business and Accounting (19) Maharagama (6) V avuniya
(8) Addalaichenai
30 Second Language (Sinhala) (3) Mahaweli
31 Second Language (Tamil) (3) Mahaweli
32 Special Education (17) Hapitigam (8) Addalaichenai
(15) Jaffna
Note:
(i) Only Tamil medium female applicants should apply to Dharga Town National College of Education.
(ii) T amil Medium Course for Social Science will be conducted only at Sripada National College of Education.
(iii) Courses for Western Music and Information Communication Technology will be conducted only in English medium.
Course NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Course Name Sinhala Medium T amil Medium English Medium
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v)

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
757
6.0  Procedure for selection of trainees for Year 2015
6.1 Basis of selection:
6.1.1. The number of trainees to be admitted in the
relevant secretarial division will be decided by
considering the teacher carder requirements of
each secretarial division in the school system in
the Year 2018.
6.1.2 The basis of selection other than Catholicism/
Christianity (Sinhala Medium) course and
Physical Education course will be the order of
the Z score obtained at G .C.E. (A/L) Examination
in 2013 in each secretarial division.
In the selection for Catholicism/ Christianity
(Sinhala Medium) course, the ratio of Catholic
population in each secretarial division, and the
order of the Z score is considered.
Students will be selected for Physical Education
course on the order of achievements and
performances in Sports in each secretarial
division.
In the selection for the English course applicants
who qualified according to the 4.11.1 in Para 4.11
will be selected according to the order of the Z
score in relevant secretarial division. Applicants
who qualified under 4.11.2 and 4.11.3 will be
selected according to the order of the marks given
to the obtained grades for English Literature/
English Language at G .C.E. (O/L) examination in
secretarial division.
In case of selecting on the basis of Z score if
select an individual among many with the same Z
score / as mentioned in 4.11.2 or 4.11.3/
considering the Performance of Sports Marks if
there are more applicants in relevant secretarial
division with the same marks, the results obtained
at the G.C.E. (O/L) at the first sitting will be
considered. Marks will be awarded as 04 marks
for a Distinction pass, 03 marks for a Very Good
pass, 02 marks for a Credit pass, and 01 mark for
an Ordinary pass and the available number of
vacancies will be filled based on the total number
of marks obtained. The award of these marks
will be limited only for 08 main subjects. As
mentioned in 4.11.2 or 4.11.3/ if performance of
sports marks and G .C.E. (O/L) marks are the
same, Z score for each secretarial division will be
considered for selection.
6.1.2.1 New Syllabus and Old Syllabus will be
considered separately for the selection of
applicants to all NCOEs in 2015.
6.1.3 Applicants from each secretarial division who
prefer to follow Physical Education, Science,
Mathematics, Western Music and Information
Communication Technology in English Medium,
have to qualify with Credit pass for English
Language/ Ordinary pass for English Literature
at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination (the para 4.25 is
relevant for the estates workers children who
applied for the Information Communication
Technology course), Applicants from each
secretarial division for Primary Education course
in Sinhala/ Tamil Medium and Business and
Accounting course in Sinhala/ Tamil Medium have
to qualify with Ordinary pass for English
Language at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination, including
six (06) core subjects with Sinhala/ Tamil
Language and Mathematics.
6.1.4 Applicants should reach a satisfactory level at
the Practical Test from each secretarial division
conducted for Physical Education, Dance
(Oriental), Dance (Baratha), Music (Oriental),
Music (Carnatic) and Western Music courses.
6.1.5 If the expected number from relevant secretarial
division is not available, vacancies will be filled
from the nearest secretarial division.
6.2 Determination of Secretarial Division –
6.2.1 The secretarial division of the applicant should
be decided according to the secretarial division
that the applicant has resident during the last three
year period ending on the last day of the month
immediately preceding the month in which he/
she had sat the G .C.E. (A/L) examination at the
first sitting.
Should confirm the secretarial division of residence
(6.2.1) by a certificate on residence and character
issued by the Grama Niladhari only with the
counter sign of the Divisional Secretary.
6.3 Selection for SriPada National College of
Education
6.3.1 75% of the vacancies will be filled from
applicants of the Indian Tamil Origin and 25%
from Sinhalese applicants.
6.3.1.1 On the required number of vacancies
prevailing at secretarial divisions of state-
schools in plantation districts, 35% of
the candidates will be appointed to the
secretarial division of Moneragala,
Badulla and Ratnapura Districts.
6.3.2 Primary, Mathematics and Science Courses will
be conducted in the Sinhala Medium whereas
Primary, Mathematics, Science, Social Science,

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
758
Art, Dance (Bharatha), Music (Carnatic), First
Language (Tamil) Courses will be conducted in
the Tamil Medium. (These courses will be
offered at Sripada National College of Education.)
6.3.3
6.3.3.1 Applications for admission to Sripada National
College of Education will be entertained only
from children whose parents are residents
employed in the secretarial divisions of the
plantation districts in Nuwara Eliya, Kandy,
Matale, Badulla, Moneragala, Ratnapura,
Kegalle, Kalutara, Matara, Galle and
Kurunegala. Priority is given to children of the
workers who work at present and estate
workers living in estates who worked at least
25 year in the estate sector and retired/ passed
away/ left service on medical reasons in-
between 2004 – 2013 are considered.
6.3.3.2 In case of insufficient number of children of
the estate workers as per 6.3.3.1 applicants
from the estate sector, applications from those
of the estate workers who worked
continuously at least 05, 04, 03 years after
2004 will be considered although they are not
employed at the moment. (Priority is given
sequentially as 2013, 2012, 2011.)
6.3.3.3 In case of insufficient number of children, of
the estate workers as applicants from the above
districts for Tamil Medium, applicants those
who are not children of employees in the
plantation sector, but Indian Origin live in
secretarial divisions of the above mentioned
Districts, will be considered.
6.3.3.4 In case of insufficiency of qualified applicants
from secretarial divisions of Plantation
Districts, Tamil Medium applicants who are
from secretarial divisions of other Districts
with Indian Origin will be considered.
6.3.3.5 Tamil Medium Indian Origin applicants those
who live in secretarial divisions of Plantation
Districts and Other secretarial divisions of
Districts should have passed in three subjects
at G.C.E. (A/L) examination.
6.3.3.6 In case of insufficient number of Sinhala
Medium applicants from secretarial divisions
of Plantation Districts, the rest of the vacancies
will be filled from those who applied for the
same course in Sripada/ other National Colleges
of Education. The basis of the selection will
be the Z Score.
6.3.4 At th e interview the children of the employees in the
State and Private Sector Estate Companies should submit
a letter from the Estate Superintendent relating to service
(indicating employee’s period of service) that he is
permanently and continuously serving for the past
period of 05 years or more/ retirement from the
plantation sector (indicating year and date clearly).
Candidate’s letter agreeing to serve a period of Ten (10)
years continuously in the schools in the plantation sector
after the training and letters to prove that deductions
are being done for the employees Provident Fund
including Registration Numbers.
NOTE: In the case of an applicant having an Indian
Tamil Origin who had studied in Sinhala Medium
will be considered for the percentage entitled to
Indian Tamil origin. Similarly, a Sinhalese
applicant who had studied in Tamil Medium
will be considered for the Sinhala Medium
percentage.
7.0 Other matters related to selection
7.1 Selected applicants should be prepared to submit
acceptable evidence and originals of certificates to
confirm their eligibility on the date of conducting the
interview. A number of applicants more than the number
of vacancies in each secretarial division will be called
for the interview. Those who fails to report for interview
without informing their acceptable reason on time, are
considered as absentees and their opportunity will be
filled with next applicant.
7.2 It is mandatory to submit all original certificates at the
Interview. Those who fail to do so will not be selected.
7.3 When a problematic situation is observed relating to the
mental and physical fitness required by an applicant
for reaching the expected level in the Course and the
Interview Board is not satisfied of this position he/ she
should be subjected to a special interview and after the
submission of this report to the Colleges of Education
Board the decision taken by the Board/ Secretary,
Ministry of Education should be implemented.
7.4 If the selected applicant fails to get registered in the
relevantCollege of Education within 03 days from the
due date, he/ she will be deprived of the opportunity
for the admission. The vacancies created thereby, will
be filled according to the merit order in each secretarial
division.
7.4.1 It is emphasis that there is no any opportunity,
for applicants who are not registered within said
date.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
759
7.5 Selected applicants are required to appear for a Medical
Examination before their admission to the Colleges of
Education for the certification of their physical and
mental fitness for the Teacher service.
7.6 After the admission to any Course/ National College of
Education permission will not be granted to change such
Course/ College of Education. If a sufficient number of
applicants are not available for a particular Course the
applicants will be transferred to the nearest College of
Education to follow the same course.
8.0 Persons who are not eligible to apply or to get admitted.
8.1 Those who have already obtained teaching
appointments in Government or in Private Schools.
8.2 Those who have been selected for an appointment in a
Government School.
8.3 Those who are following or who have followed a Course
in a College of Education.
8.4 Those who are following or have followed a Degree
Course in a University or University Institute or any
other Higher Education Institute where G .C.E. (A/L) is
the entry requirement. (After publishing the gazette
notification, student who were/ are withdrawn the
registration will not be eligible to apply/ to get admitted.)
If register in the above institutions, after publishing the
gazette notification or after conducting the interview
and then withdrawn the registration of the above
institutions will not eligible for admission.
8.5 Those who have been discontinued from a College of
Education on disciplinary ground.
8.6 Applicants those who are married or engaged to marry.
9.0 Conditions applicable for training
9.1 Duration of a Training Course is three years. This period
consists of two years residential institutional training
in the National College of Education and one year
internship training while being attached to a school.
Attendance of a student teacher should be not less than
90% to enable him/ her to sit for the External Final
Examination conducted by the Department of
Examinations at the end of the second year.
9.2 Every trainee should pass the Internal Continuous Tests
held in the first and the second year, internal Test
conducted at the end of the second year and the external
final examination conducted by the Department of
Examinations. Except those who follow English Courses,
all those who follow other Courses should pass in the
English subject at the above examinations. Applications
should be forwarded only by those who agree to the
above conditions.
9.3 During the period of two years residential training a
trainee will be provided with meals and lodging facilities
to the value of Rs.3500/ per month for ten months in a
year. During the Internship year a monthly allowance
of Rs.4000/- will be paid for ten months. Other expenses
for personal requirements should borne by the trainee.
9.4 During the period of training a trainee will not be allowed
to follow an Academic Course as an internal student in
a University, University Institution or other Higher
Educational Institute where G .C.E. (A/L) is treated as
the entry requirement. If it is proved that a trainee had
followed such a Course amount of the Bond and
Agreement (Rs.500,000/-) incurred for him/ her will be
surcharged and the trainee will be removed from the
Course.
9.5 If the trainees get married during the training period, the
studentship will be cancelled. Those who married and
provide various reasons and getting divorcements also
will not be given studentship. The clergy of any religion
should make Bond and Agreement with the Ministry of
Education on at least 5 years’ service without being
disrobed.
9.6 If a trainee fails to exhibit the progress expected in his
general conduct, enthusiasm and in his studies during
the period of training he will be removed from training.
Likewise, those who do not reach a satisfactory level in
the assessment during the first year of academic training
or found to be following any other Course in an Institute
as indicated at 9.4 they will be removed from the Course.
Regarding these matters the decision made by the
Colleges of Education Board/ Secretary, Ministry of
Education shall be the final decision.
9.7 If any complaints are received relating to the physical
and mental fitness of the trainee either by the President
of the College during the period of training or by the
Principal of the school during the Internship period the
trainee will be referred to a Special Interview Board. A
final decision will be taken after the submission of. This
report to the Colleges of Education Board/ Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
9.8 National Diploma in Teaching will be awarded to the
trainees who will successfully complete the Training
Course. Course work and Personality Development
(inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will
be continuously assessed during the period of training
and this assessment will form a component of the final
assessment in awarding the Diploma.
9.9 Applicants successfully completing this Course will be
given appointments as government teachers. They
should serve in any secretarial division of the island if
there are no vacancies in the relevant secretarial division.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
760
9. 9.1 Trainees who follow the course, Physical Education,
Mathematics, Science in English Medium, are appointed
to the Schools which do not have English Medium
Vacancies, should teach in their Mother Tongue (Sinhala/
Tamil)
9.9.2 Therefore the candidates who are invited for the
interviews for selecting to the above Course should
appear for the interview only if would agree to the
above conditions.
9.9.3 Applicants who receive their training under the above
conditions should teach the same subject that they
followed. In addition have to enter into Bond and
Agreement with the Secretary of the Ministry of
Education that they will serve in the relevant secretarial
division under the Ministry of Education for a minimum
period of five (05) years from the date of appointment.
The Secretarial division which the appointment has been
given will not be changed for any reason.
9.10 Applicants who get registered in a National College of
Education should sign an agreement and a Bond for
Rs.500,000/- for the cost to be incurred for providing
training and for supply of infrastructure facilities. Those
who give up the course within the 60 calendar days
from the date of registration should pay the amounts
spent on the trainee by the government. Then their
registration will be canceled. Those who give up the
course after completing 60 calendar days or those who
fail to serve for five years under the government will be
subjected to a condition for paying the total amount
(Rs. 500,000/-) in the Bond and Agreement to the
Government.
9.11 If any applicant claims to change the selected National
College of Education on medical/ personal reasons will
not be eligible for admission.
9.12
All educational and other qualifications should have
been  completed on or before the last date of calling for
applications.
10.0 Application :
10.1 An applicant can apply for a maximum of 03 Courses.
If applied for the same course in two media, it is
considered as applied for two courses. Such applicant
can apply only for one more courses. Buddhist monks
should apply for the Course of Buddhism whereas the
clergy of Christianity, Hinduism and Islam for their
respective courses of religions.
Example: If a candidate applied for science course both
in English medium and Sinhala medium he/
she can apply only for another one course.
10.2 An Applicant can enclose only one application. If any
applicant sent more than one application all the
applications will be rejected. Applicants for Buddhism,
Physical Education, Hinduism, Islam, Catholicism /
Christianity, Technical Studies – Craft and Art, Design
and Construction Technology/ Design and Mechanical
Technology/ Design and Electrical and Electronic
Technology, Western Music must enclose two certified
photocopies of the application in the same envelope
and submit.
10.3 Application should be prepared according to the
specimen Form and instructions given below.
10.4 Applications should be sent under registered post and
addressed to Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education)
Colleges of Education Branch, Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Battaramulla to be received on or before
29.05. 2015.
   Specimen of the envelope in which the application is enclosed
should be as follows:
Application for admission to National Colleges of Education 2015
Course Number indicated as first preference ……. Medium...........
Apply to the Sri Pada National College of Education Yes / No
New/ Old Syllabus
Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education)
Colleges of Education Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla
(It is emphasized that applications should not be sent to
Department of  Examinations/ National Colleges of Education)
10.5 It is compulsory to keep a photo copy of completed
application by the applicant. The postal receipt of
registration issued in forwarding the application and a
photo copy of the application should be submitted in
all instances of making inquiries or submitting appeals.
Hence, these documents should be kept with the
candidate.
10.6 Applications which do not clearly indicate the Index
Number, Year and Course Number, Course Name as
well as the incomplete and informal applications will be
rejected.
10.7  If applied without fulfilling the qualifications mention
in the Gazette Notification, Ministry of Education will
not take the responsibility of candidates’ inconvenience.
10.8 Applications will not be acknowledged. Appling for
any course is not a qualification for the recruitment.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
761
Recruitment is done only by considering the vacancies
and the recruitment of the secretarial division. Secretary
of Education is authorized for all decisions.
10.9 No other document should be attached to the
application.
10.10 If any certificate submitted by the candidate is revealed
later to be a forged or fraudulent certificate the candidate
will be dismissed from service and he will be ineligible
for any post in Public Service.
11.0  Regarding any problems arising with regard to the above
information in this Gazette Notification the decision of the Colleges
of Education Board/ Secretary, Ministry of Education will be the
final decision.
12.0  In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and
Tamil or English Texts of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala Text
shall prevail.
U
PALI MARASINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
20th April, 2015.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE PREPARATION OF
APPLICATION FORM
1.0 Read the Gazette Notification very carefully. Apply only
three courses to which you are eligible in one application.
Applicants applying for the Buddhism, Physical Education,
Hinduism, Islam, Catholicism/ Christianity, Technical Studies
– Craft and Art, Design and Construction Technology/ Design
and Mechanical Technology/ Design and Electrical and
Electronic Technology, Western Music courses must enclose
two certified photocopies of the application along with original
application in the same envelope and submit. (Photocopies
should be certified by the Principal or a Justice of the Peace)
2.0 Application should be prepared in a (Legal) F5 size white
paper (21.8 x 34 c. m.) in conformity with the specimen
form. Paragraphs 1.0 to 9.8 should be included in the
first page. In places where information has to be given in a
cage, mark "X" in the relevant cage.
3.0 Please note that the Computer Data relating to each Course
used for calling applicants for the interview are prepared
based on the information given from 1.0 to 9.8 in the first
page. Specially the Course Number, Course Name, Secretarial
Division according to para 6.2.1, Index Number of G .C.E.
(A/L) and Z Score should be confirmed as accurate. Please
note that the application is liable to be rejected owing to
overlapped writing and illegible and erroneous writing.
4.0 The Information given in paragraph 12.0 for Physical
Education Course, paragraph 13.0 for Buddhism Course,
paragraph 14.0 for Catholicism/ Christianity Course,
paragraph 15.0 for Hinduism/ Islam Course, paragraph 16.0
for Technical studies – Craft and Art/ Design and Construction
Technology/ Design and Mechanical Technology/ Design and
Electrical and Electronic Technology. Course and paragraph
l7.0 for Western Music Course should be considered carefully
in filling the application. The information specified will not
be changed under any circumstances.
5.0 Numbers assigned to the secretarial division related to
paragraph 6.2.1 are indicated below.
District Number of the Secretarial Division
relevant to the  District
Colombo - 01 Colombo 0101
Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia 0102
Kolonnawa 0103
Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte 0104
(Nugegoda)
Rathmalana 0105
Moratuwa 0106
Homagama 0107
Maharagama 0108
Kesbewa 0109
Kaduwela 0110
Hanwella (Seethawaka) 0111
Padukka 0112
Thimbirigasyaya 0113
Gampaha - 02 Gampaha 0201
Attanagalla 0202
Meerigama (Pasyala) 0203
Mahara 0204
Dompe (Weke) 0205
Biyagama 0206
Kelaniya 0207
Minuwangoda 0208
Katana (Seduwa) 0209
Negombo 0210
Divulapitiya 0211
Wattala 0212
Ja-Ela 0213
Kalutara - 03 Kalutara 0301
Bandaragama 0302
Horana 0303
Beruwala 0304

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
762
Panadura 0305
Dodamgoda 0306
Mathugama 0307
Bulathsinhala 0308
Agalawatta 0309
Walallawita 0310
Madurawala 0311
Millaniya 0312
Palindanuwara (Baduraliya) 0313
Ingiriya 0314
Kandy - 04 Kandy Four Gravets And 0401
Gangawata Korale
Yatinuwara 0402
Pathahewaheta 0403
Udapalatha (Gampola) 0404
Udunuwara 0405
Ganga Ihala Korale 0406
Pasbage Korale 0407
Harispattuwa (Katugasthota) 0408
Minipe 0409
Medadumbara (Karaliyadda) 0410
Kundasale 0411
Thumpane (Galagedara) 0412
Poojapitiya 0413
Akurana 0414
Pathadumbara (Wathegama) 0415
Panwila 0416
Udadumbara 0417
Weligalla 0418
Delthota 0419
Doluwa 0420
Hatharaliyadda 0421
Matale - 05 Matale 0501
Rattota 0502
Wilgamuwa 0503
Laggala (Pallegama) 0504
Ambanganga Korale 0505
Galewela 0506
Dambulla 0507
Naula 0508
Pallepola 0509
Yatawatta 0510
Ukuwela 0511
Nuwara Eliya - 06 Nuwara Eliya 0601
Ambagamuwa (Hattan) 0602
Walapane 0603
Kothmale 0604
Hanguranketha 0605
Galle - 07 Galle Four Gravets 0701
Habaraduwa (T alpepattuva 0702
South)
Akmeemana 0703
Hikkaduwa 0704
Bope-Poddala 0705
Elpitiya 0706
Ambalangoda 0707
Bentota 0708
Karandeniya 0709
Balapitiya 0710
Nagoda (Mapalagama) 0711
Niyagama 0712
Yakkalamulla (Udugama 0713
Talpepattuva North)
Thawalama 0714
Baddegama (Ganga Bada 0715
Pattuva South)
Neluwa (Hiniduma 0716
Pattuva - Batuwangala)
Imaduwa 0717
Welivitiya-Divithura 0718
Gonapinuwala 0719
Matara - 08 Matara Four Gravets 0801
Weligama 0802
Welipitiya 0803
Devinuwara 0804
Dickwella 0805
Akuressa (Waligama Korale 0806
North)
Thihagoda (Ganga Bada 0807
Pattuva South)
Hakmana 0808
Mulatiyana 0809
Kamburupitiya 0810
Malimboda 0811
Pitabeddara (Morawaka 0812
Korale South)
Pasgoda (Oorubokka 0813
Morawaka Korale – Eas.)
Kotapola 0814
Athuraliya 0815
Kirinda - Puhulwella 0816
Hambantota - 09 T angalle 0901
Beliatta 0902
Katuwana 0903
Weeraketiya 0904
Hambantota 0905
Angunakolapelessa 0906
District Number of the Secretarial Division
relevant to the  District
District Number of the Secretarial Division
relevant to the  District

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
763
Thissamaharama 0907
Ambalanthota 0908
Lunugamwehera 0909
Okewela 0910
Sooriyawewa 0911
Walasmulla 0912
Jaffna - 10 Jaffna 1001
Nallur 1002
Thenmaradchi 1003
(Chavakachcheri)
Delft 1004
Islands North (Kayts) 1005
Vadamaradchy East 1006
(Maruthankerny)
Vadamaradchy North 1007
(Point Perdro)
Vadamaradchi South - West 1008
 (Karaveddy)
Valikamam East (Kopay) 1009
Valikamam South (Uduvil) 1010
Valikamam West (Chankanai) 1011
Valikamam South-West 1012
(Sandilipay)
Valikamam North (Tellipalai) 1013
Island South (Velanai) 1014
Karainagar 1015
Kilinochchi - 11 Karachchi 1101
Kandawali 1102
Palai (Pachchilaipalli) 1103
Poonakary 1104
Mannar - 12 Mannar Town 1201
Manthai West 1202
Musali 1203
Nanaattan 1204
Madhu 1205
Vavuniya - 13 Vavuniya South 1301
Vavuniya 1302
Vavuniya North 1303
V engalacheddiculam 1304
Welioya - Vavuniya 1305
Mullativu - 14 Maritimepattu 1401
Manthai East 1402
Thunukkai 1403
Puthukudiyiruppu 1404
Oddusuddan 1405
Welioya - Mullaitivu 1406
Batticaloa - 15 Manmunai North 1501
(Batticaloa – Town)
Eravur Pattu 1502
Eravur Town 1503
Manmunai South and 1504
Eruvilpattu
Porativu Pattu 1505
Manmunai Pattu (Araipatta i) 1506
Manmunai South-West 1507
Koralai Pattu North 1508
Manmunai West 1509
Koralai Pattu (Valachchenai) 1510
Kattankudy 1511
Koralai Pattu  West 1512
(Oddamavadi)
Koralai Pattu Central 1513
Koralai Pattu South (Kiran) 1514
Ampara - 16 Ampara 1601
Uhana 1602
Padiyathalawa 1603
Damana 1604
Dehiattakandiya 1605
Mahaoya 1606
Lahugala 1607
Kalmunai - South 1608
Kalmunai - North 1609
Ninthavur 1610
Samanthurai 1611
Addalachchenai 1612
Akkaraipattu 1613
Alayadiwembu 1614
Karativu 1615
Pothuvil 1616
Thirukkovil 1617
Irakkamam 1618
Navithanveli 1619
Sainthamarathu 1620
Trincomalee - 17 Trincomalee Town and 1701
Gravets
Kantale 1702
Kinniya 1703
Muttur 1704
Gomarankadawala 1705
Kuchchaveli 1706
Seruvila 1707
Verugal (Echchilampattai) 1708
Thampalakamam 1709
(Thambalagamuwa)
Morawewa 1710
Padavi Sri Pura 1711
Thoppur 1712
District Number of the Secretarial Division
relevant to the  District
District Number of the Secretarial Division
relevant to the  District

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
764
Kurunegala - 18 Kurunegala 1801
Polgahawela 1802
Mawathagama 1803
Rideegama 1804
Ibbagamuwa 1805
Alawwa 1806
Kuliyapitiya East 1807
(Nakkawatta)
Wariyapola 1808
Panduwasnuwara (Hettipola) 1809
Bingiriya 1810
Pannala 1811
Mahawa 1812
Polpithigama 1813
Kobeigane 1814
Nikaweratiya 1815
Galgamuwa 1816
Giribawa 1817
Kuliyapitiya West 1818
Ganewatta 1819
Katupotha 1820
Kotawehera 1821
Mallawapitiya 1822
Maspotha 1823
Narammala 1824
Weerambugedara 1825
Udubaddawa 1826
Rasnayakapura 1827
Ambanpola 1828
Ehetuwewa 1829
Bamunakotuwa 1830
Panduwasnuwara East 1831
Puttalam - 19 Puttalam 1901
Nawagattegama (Kirimetiyana) 1902
Anamaduwa 1903
Karuwalagaswewa 1904
Kalpitiya 1905
Wanathavilluwa 1906
Chilaw (Pittigal) 1907
Arachchikattuwa - PS 1908
Nattandiya 1909
Wennappuwa 1910
Dankotuwa 1911
Madampe 1912
Mahakumbukkadawala 1913
Mundalama 1914
Pallama 1915
Mahawewa (Yatakalanpattu) 1916
Anuradhapura - 20 Nuwaragampalatha East 2001
Nuwaragampalatha Central 2002
Rambewa 2003
Nochchiyagama 2004
(Nuwaragampalatha West)
Mahawilachchiya 2005
Thambuttegama 2006
Thalawa (Nuwaragampalatha 2007
South)
Rajanganaya 2008
Galnewa 2009
Kekirawa 2010
Palugaswewa 2011
Palagala 2012
Thirappane 2013
Ipalogama 2014
Galenbindunuwewa 2015
Kahatagasdigiliya 2016
Mihinthale 2017
Kebithigollewa 2018
Padaviya 2019
Horowpothana 2020
Medawachchiya 2021
Nachchadoowa 2022
Welioya 2023
Polonnaruwa - 21 Thamankaduwa 2101
 (Polonnaruwa)
Lankapura 2102
Dimbulagala 2103
Hingurakgoda (Minariya) 2104
Medirigiriya 2105
Elahera 2106
Welikanda 2107
Badulla - 22 Badulla 2201
Passara 2202
Hali-Ela 2203
Soranathota 2204
Meegahakivula (Viyaluwa) 2205
Kandaketiya 2206
Bandarawela 2207
Uva Paranagama 2208
Welimada 2209
Haldummulla 2210
Haputale 2211
Ella 2212
Mahiyanganaya 2213
Rideemaliyadda 2214
Lunugala 2215
District Number of the Secretarial Division
relevant to the  District
District Number of the Secretarial Division
relevant to the  District

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
765
Monaragala - 23 Moneragala 2301
Buttala 2302
Thanamalvila 2303
Wellawaya 2304
Siyambalanduwa 2305
Badalkumbura 2306
Madulla 2307
Bibile 2308
Medagama 2309
Katharagama 2310
Sevanagala 2311
Ratnapura - 24 Ratnapura 2401
Pelmadulla 2402
Nivithigala 2403
Eheliyagoda 2404
Kuruwita 2405
Ayagama 2406
Kalawana 2407
Balangoda 2408
Imbulpe 2409
Weligepola 2410
Godakawela 2411
Kolonna 2412
Embilipitiya 2413
Opanayaka 2414
Elapatha 2415
Kahawatta 2416
Kiriella 2417
Kegalle - 25 Kegalle 2501
Galigamuwa 2502
Warakapola 2503
Ruwanwella 2504
Dehiovita 2505
Deraniyagala 2506
Yatiyanthota 2507
Mawanella 2508
Rambukkana 2509
Aranayaka 2510
Bulathkohupitiya 2511
District Number of the Secretarial Division
relevant to the  District
District Number of the Secretarial Division
relevant to the  District
6.0 Symbol for each  Medium: Sinhala – S T amil- T English – E
Specimen Application Form
ADMISSION TO NATIONAL COLLEGES OF EDUCATION - 2015
(Applicants should forward their necessary applications according to the Section 10.2 of Gazette Notification. Applications which are
not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected. Details up to paragraph 09 in the application should be inc luded in
the first page. Computer data required for the selection interview will be prepared out of the information given from 1.0 - 9.8 ).
1.0
Preference Course Course College Course Medium
Number Name Number  (S/T/E)
1
2
3
Details mentioned in the table will not be edited in any circumstance
2.0 2.1 Name with initials in English (In Block letters) Example : Mr. PERERA R. C.
Rev. Mr./Miss :–––––––––––.
2.2 Name in full in English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
3.0 Permanent residential address :
  In English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
4.0 According to para 6.2.1 in Gazette Notification :
Secretariat/Division :–––––––––––. Secretarial Division No. :

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
766
5.0 5.1 Date of Birth :
Y ear : Month :  Date :
5.2 National Identity Card No.  :
6.0 Sex : Male 1 Female   2
7.0 Ethnicity :
Sinhalese Sri Lankan Tamil Indian Tamil Muslim Others
12 3 4 5
8.0 Results of G . C. E. (A/L) in Year 2013 :  (1. New Syllabus/ 2. Old Syllabus)
8.1 A/L Stream : Mathematics/Science/Commerce/Art/Other
8.2 Year : Medium of the Examination :––––––––––.
8.3 Index No. : Attempt of the Examination :––––––––––.
8.4 Z Score  :                 If Z is minus indicate : M
8.5 Details of results subject wise :
Subject Subject No. Grade
1. ........................ ........................ ........................
2. ........................ ........................ ........................
3. ........................ ........................ ........................
9.0 9.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants of English and English Medium Courses at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination for
English Language and English Literature Subject No. :
Year :
Index No.
9.2 Are you applying to Sri Pada National College of Education ? Y es 1 No 2
9.3 If yes indicate whether you are a state worker’s child by marking ( ‘ X’ in the relevant cage) :
Yes 1 N o 2
9.4 Total marks included for section 12.0 in the application by applicants for Physical Education Sinhala/Tamil/English :
9.5 9.5.1.1 The highest grade obtained by the applicants of Second National Language (Sinhala) Medium Courses at the G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Second Language (Tamil) : Subject No. :
9.5.1.2 The highest grade obtained by the applicants of Second National Language (Tamil) Medium Courses at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Second Language (Sinhala) : Subject No. :
9.6 The highest grade obtained by the applicants of English Course at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination for English
Literature : Subject No. :
Index No. : Y ear :
.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
767
9.7 The highest grade obtained by the applicants of English Course at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination for English
Language: Subject No. :
Index No. : Y ear :
9.8 The highest grade obtained by the applicants of Information Communication Technology Course at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination for Information and Communication Technology Subject :
Subject No. : Index No. : Y ear :
10.0 If you have sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination prior to year 2013, please indicate details in full in each sitting even if you
appeared for only one subject :
10.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2
10.2 Y ear ........... ..............
10.3 Index No. ........... ..............
10.4 Examination Center No. ........... ..............
10.5 Z Score ........... ..............
10.6 Subjects passed and grades
First Sitting Second Sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
11.0 Details of G . C. E. (O/L) passed :
11.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2 3
11.2 Y ear .............. ............. ..............
11.3 Index No. .............. ............. ..............
11.4 Examination Centre No. .............. ............. ..............
11.5 Subjects and Grades passed
1st sitting 2nd sitting 3rd sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
2. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
3. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
4. ........................ . .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
5. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
6. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
7. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
8. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
12.0 Particulars of sports competency according to the Clause 4.20.3 and 4.20.4 in Para. 4.20 of the Gazette Notification :
(Only those who apply for Physical Education Course should complete). It is necessary to give your attention to all the
Clauses in 4.20.3 when you complete this part. Particulars of only highest three sports certificates/competency will be
sufficient.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
768
If you have passed Health and Physical Education in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination, state the relevant mark according to the
grade as in 4.20.4, must be mentioned below.
The total number of marks of your competency on sports should be included in 9.4 in the first page of this application.
Certificate of sports competency :
No. Year Ministry/ Institute/ Represented for Event/Sports Place Relevant
Clubs issued Competitions-International/ obtained Marks for
National/Provincial/District/ 4.20.3
Zonal
1
2
3
If you sat for Health and Physical Education in G . C. E. (O/L), Grade          Marks
Total Marks
13.0 Results (if any) of Pracheena Preliminary, Bauddha Dharmacharya, Pirivena Final Examination according to 4.5 of the Gazette
Notification :
Examination Pracheena Bauddha Pirivena Final Daham Pasal
Preliminary Dharmacharya Final
13.1 Y ear
13.2 Index No.
13.3 Center No.
13.4 Subject 1 1 1
Grade 2 2 2
33 3
44 4
55
66
7
8
9
10
11
14.0 The applicant of Catholicism/Christianity should fill the relevant part according to para 4.8 of the Gazette Notification.
Duration
Name of  the Course/Certificate
From  To Grade
14.1 Degree in Theology (BTH)
14.2 Philosophy Certificate (BPH) conducted by the National and Seminary
14.3 Dharmachariya Certificate conducted by the National Catechetical center
14.4 Three year religious education course in Deva Dharma Niketanaya
14.5 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that
the candidate has successfully completed the study of  the religious
education and training course (Novitiate) or become a member of the clergy
14.6 Should have obtained Dharma Vedi Diploma conducted by Theological
College Pilimatalawa

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
769
 14.7 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge
conducted by National Christian Council
14.8 Certificate issued by relevant Bishop be a religious Teacher of Catholicism
or Christianity
14.9 Obtained a pass in G. C. E. (A/L) for Christianity/Christian Civilization
15.0 The applicants of Hinduism/Islam  should fill the necessary particulars according to section 4.6 and 4.7 of the Gazette Notification :
Name of the Course Duration V alid Date of the Certificate
16.0 The applicants of Technical Skills Courses 4.23/4.24 should fill the necessary particulars according to the Gazette Notification.
16.1 In the application clearly indicate the applying field of the course whether the course as Crafts and Art or Design and
Construction Technology/Design and Mechanical Technology/Design and Electrical and Electronic Technology :–––––––.
16.2 The applicants who have successfully completed a Technical Course in a recognized Government Institute and hope to
follow the Technical Studies - Craft and Art, Design and construction Technology/Design and Mechanical Technology/
Design and Electrical and Electronic Technology Course Para. 4.23.3/4.24.4 should fill in the following table :
Name of the Registration Number Institute that Duration Whether successfully
Technical in Government and conducted the completed the course
Course the Date valid Course
17.0 Applicants of the Western Music course should include relevant particulars on competencies related to Music as per the term s of
Para. 4.18.1 and 4.18.2 in the Gazette Notification :
Year Institute issuing Certificate Proficiency/class passed
18.0 Declaration of the Applicant :
(i) I have forwarded my application in accordance with Section 10.2 of the Gazette Notification.
(ii) I certify that the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification relevant to my application have already been completed
by me.
(iii) I certify that the particulars furnished in the application by me are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars given
by me in this application are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected before selection or to be
discontinued if detected after selection.
(iv) I declare that I have not applied for University admission and that I am not registered for following a course in a University/
University Institute/affiliated University College/any other Higher Education Institute.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Duration
Name of  the Course / Certificate
From  To Grade

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
770
19.0 Certifying the residence according to Section 6.2.1 of the Gazette Notification  :
I certify that the applicant's residence during the last three year period ending on the last day of the month immediately prec eding
the month in which applicant had sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination at the first sitting is ................................
..................................
Signature of Grama Niladhari and Official Frank.
Name of Grama Niladhari Division  :–––––––––––,
Name and address of Grama Niladhari Division  :–––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––.
I certify that the details supplied by the Grama Niladhari are true and accurate.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Secretary of the Secretarial Division and
Official Frank
Name of Secretary of the Secretarial Division :–––––––––––.
Name and Address of Secretarial Division :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
05–128

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
771
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.05.2015
772
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2015
MAY 08.05.2015 Friday — 24.04.2015 Friday 12 noon
15.05.2015 Friday –– 30.04.2015 Thursday 12 noon
22.05.2015 Friday –– 08.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
29.05.2015 Friday –– 15.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
JUNE 05.06.2015 Friday — 22.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
12.06.2015 Friday –– 29.05.2015 Friday 12 noon
19.06.2015 Friday –– 05.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
26.06.2015 Friday –– 12.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
JULY 03.07.2015 Friday — 19.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
10.07.2015 Friday –– 26.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
17.07.2015 Friday –– 03.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
24.07.2015 Friday –– 10.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
30.07.2015 Thursday –– 17.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.