

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … ––
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"209 – 2020 ckjdß ui 01 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'01'01
No. 2,209  –  fRiday ,  jaNuaRy , 2021
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st january, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th december, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1 - B 82091- 5,403 (01/2021)
N. B.–   (i) Parts ii, iii  of the Gazette No. 2,207 of 18.12.2017 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
3
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
4
Posts – vacant
POST  Of  REGISTRAR  Of  mARRIAGE,  bIRTh  AND  DEATh  Of  ThE  REGISTRAR 
GENERAL'S  DEPARTmENT
Notice of Cancellation
KuRuNEGaLa diStRict
thE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the Post 
of Registrar of Birth & deaths & Marriages (Kandyan/General) Registrar/additional Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/
General) in Kurunegala district Which ,was Published by me in the Part i(iia) of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 2202 dated 13-11-2020 is cancelled hereby.
District Divisional Secretariat
Division Post & Division for which Application are called
Kurunegaia Wariyapola Post of Births and deaths Registrar of dewamadda Korale South division and post of 
Marriages (Kandyan/General) Registrar of dewamadi hathpattuwa division
 K.G. Dharmathiiaka,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3,
denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
14th december 2020.
01–162
––––––––––––––––––––––––
POST  Of  REGISTRAR  Of  mARRIAGE,  bIRTh  AND  DEATh  Of  ThE  REGISTRAR' 
GENERALS  DEPARTmENT
Notice of Cancellation
KaLutaRa  diStRict
thE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the Post 
of Registrar of Birth & deaths & Marriages (General) Registrar /additional Registrar of Marriages (General) in Kalutara 
district which was Published by me in the Part 1(iia) of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka 
bearing No. 2202 dated 13.11.2020 is cancelled hereby.
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division Post & Division for which Application are called
Kalutara dodangoda Post of Marriage Registrar of (General) in Pasdun Korale West division 
& Birth & death of dodangoda division
 K.G. Dharmathiiaka,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General's department, 
No 234/a3,
denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
14th december 2020.
01-163

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
5
POST Of REGISTRAR Of mARRIAGE, bIRTh AND DEATh Of ThE REGISTRAR GENERAL'S 
DEPARTmENT
Notice of Cancellation
GaLLE diStRict
thE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the Post of 
Registrar of Birth & deaths & Marriages (General) Registrar/additional Registrar of Marriages (General) in Galle district 
Which was Published by me in the Part 1(iia) of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka bearing No 
2202 dated 13.11.2020 is cancelled hereby.
District Divisional Secretariat
Division Post & Division for which Application are called
Galle divithura Post of additional Marriage Registrar of Gangabada Pattuwa (Welivitiya 
divithura) division (General)
 K.G. Dharmathiiaka,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General's department, 
No 234/a3,
denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
14th december 2020.
01–164
–––––––––––––––––––––
JuDICIAL SERvICE COmmISSION
Applications are called in terms of the muslim marriage and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the
recruitment of Quazis for the areas indicated in the following schedule
PERSoNS with following qualifications may apply.
Applicant should be a Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized University or a Moulavi holding a certificate 
from an institution recognized by the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religious and cultural affairs or a holder of the al-alim 
certificate issued by the Department of Education or an Attorney at Law or a holder of other similar qualification or a retired 
public servant who has held office in staff grade.
a person currently holding a permanent post in the public service shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicant should be married and over 40 years, should be physically fit and of good character and standing in the 
community and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim Marriage and divorce.
The selected applicant will be appointed for a period, which will be specified in the letter of appointment.
it is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for which he is appointed.
a Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs 7,500/= and an all exclusive allowance of Rs 6,250/= per month 
for the cost of support services, stationary and postal expenses.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
6
applications prepared as per specimen below, should be sent by Registered Post to reach me on or before 31 st 
january 2021 with the word 'Quazi' written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. originals of documents should not 
be forwarded with the application.
 ananDhi kanagaratnam,
 Senior assistant Secretary,
 judicial Service commission.
judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
P.o.Box - 573,
colombo -12.
14
th december 2020
SchEduLE
 1. addaLaichENai - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the d.S 
division of addalaichenai in ampara district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 2. aNuRadhaPuRa - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post, of Quazi in the 
Nuwaragam, hurulugam and thalagam revenue divisions in anuradhapura district under (chapter 115) of the 
Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 3. BERuWaLa - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the d.S division 
of Beruwala in Kalutara district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 4. haMBaNtota - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi for the judicial 
Zone of hambantota in hambantota district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 5. ERaVuR - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi for the judicial Zone of 
Eravurpatthu Revenue division in the Batticaloa district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce 
act.
 6. hattoN - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the judicial Zone of 
hatton under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 7. KEGaLLE - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the judicial Zone 
of Kegalle in kagalle district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 8. KiNNiya - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the Kinniya d.S. 
division in the trincomalee district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 9. MataRa - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the Matara judicial 
division in Matara district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 10. MuttuR - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the Revenue 
division of Kodiyarpattu in trincomalee district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 11. NaWaLaPitiya - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the Revenue 
division of udabulathgama in Kandy district and hapugastalawa in Nuwara Eliya district under (chapter 115) of 
the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 12. NiNthaVuRPattu - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the 
Ninthavur d.S. division in ampara district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 13. NEGoMBo - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the judicial Zone 
of Negombo in Gampaha district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
7
 14. oddaMaWadi - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the Revenue 
division of Koralaipatthu West in Batticaloa district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 15. PoLoNNaRuWa - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the judicial 
Zone of Polonnaruwa in Polonnaruwa district under (chapter 115) the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 16. PuLMudai - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the Revenue 
division of Kaddukulampatthu East and West in trincomalee district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage 
and divorce act.
 17. PuttaLaM & chiLaW - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the 
Puttalam and chilaw judicial divisions in Puttalam district (Except Kalpitiya d.S division) under (chapter 115) of 
the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 18. RatNaPuRa - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the judicial 
Zone of Ratnapura in Ratnapura district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 19. REfuGEE PoPuLatioN - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi for 
the displaced people in Puttalam district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 20. taNGaLLE - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the judicial Zone 
of tangalle in hambantota district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 21. tuMPaNE - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the d.S division 
of thumpane in Kandy district under (chapter 115) of. the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 22. aViSSaWELLa - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the judicial 
Zone of avissawella under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 23. PottuViL - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the Panampattu 
(Pottuvil) Revenue division in ampara district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
 24. tRiNcoMaLEE - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the d.S 
division of trincomalee town, Gravets & Morawewa in trincomalee district under (chapter 115) of the Muslim 
Marriage and divorce act.
 25. BaduLLa - applications are called by the judicial Service commission for the post of Quazi in the administrative 
district of Badulla under (chapter 115) of the Muslim Marriage and divorce act.
Specimen application Form
 application For the appointment oF quazi unDer the muSlim marriage anD Divorce act (chapter 115) 
aS amenDeD by actS, no. 1 oF 1965 anD no. 32 oF 1969 For the quazi
          Quazi division :
 1. Name with initial :
      eg. abdur Rahman M. i.
 2. full Name  :
      eg. Mohammadu ishaq abdur Rahman

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
8
 3. Permanent Residence :
 4. Postal address :
 5. date of Birth :   d    d    M   M    y       y    y    y 
 6. age :
 7. Race :
 8. Religion :
 9. N. i. c. No. : 
 10. Phone No. :
 11. academic Qu alification : 
  1........................................... .........................................................................................................................................
  2 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
  3 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
  4 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
  5 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
 12. Professional Qualification : 
  1........................................... .........................................................................................................................................
  2 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
  3 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
  4 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
  5 ....................................................................................................................................................................................
 13. Language which can read and write : 
 14. does the applicant posses knowledge of Muslim Law ? :  y es  No
 15. civil Status  :    
 16. is wife living ? :    y es  No

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
9
 17. Past and Present occupation (with date) : 
  From To Occupation Place
 
 18. Value of Possessed by assets : Rs.
 19. Monthly income :  Rs.
 20. amount of debts if any :  Rs.
 21. Were you actively engaged in politics during the last ten years ? :  y es  No
 22. are you an income tax payer ? :      y es  No
 23. Were there criminal cases against you ? or are there any pending criminal cases ? :     yes  No
 24. Particular of court convocation if any :
 25. Personal referees (they should be responsible person who known you well) : 
   Name : Name :
   
   address : address :
   Phone No. : Phone No. :
   occupation : occupation : 
   Period during which he has known you : Period during which he has known you : 
i truly and sincerely attest that the above information furnished by me is true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge.
  –––––––––––––,
  yours faithfully
date :–––––––––––.
Note :  Attach all copies of the relevant certificates with this Application. 
01–05

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
10
SRI LANkA  vOLuNTEER AIR fORCE
Airmen / Airwomen vacancies
V acaNciES exist in the V olunteer force of the Sri Lanka 
air force for airmen / airwomen in the trades given below 
and the required minimum and specific qualifications are 
stated against.
Basic Education Qualification and Specific Qualification :
2. the required basic education qualifications for each 
trade are as follows :–
(a) Computer Technicians (Network) - (Male) 
 Passes in six subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings, including 
a Simple (S) pass for Sinhala or tamil Language;
 or
 Work experience in Network and IT qualifications 
will be added advantage.    
(b) beauticians Trades (male/female).
 Passes in six subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings, 
including a Simple (S) pass for Sinhala/tamil and 
English language ;
 and 
 The qualification of NVQ Level 4 with minimum 
one (01) year experience in Beautician trade 
obtained from an authorized training institute.  
3.  Other Requirements: - 
(a) Candidates must fulfil the following general 
conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular/ 
V olunteer air force: -
(1) Nationality - Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(2)  age as at 15th january 2021
 
 Volunteer
Male -  Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 28 years
female - Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 26 years
(3)  height - 5 feet 4 inches (162.6 cm) and above 
(Male)
 Computer Technician (Network) 
Trade
 5 feet 5 inches (165.0 cm) and above 
(Male)
 5 feet 3 inches (160.0 cm) and above 
(female)
 beauticians Trade
(4) Weight : -  17 < BMi > 26 (Male)
   17 < BMi > 25 (female)
   Weight (kg.)
  Body Mass index = ––––––––––
   height
2(m)
(5) Vision colour Standard : cP2
(6) Visual acuity: 6/6 each eye (without 
spectacles and lens)
(7) chest: 30’’ computer technicians (Network)
  t rade 
      32’’ Beauticians trade 
(8) civil Status:   Married/unmarried
4. candidates who do not possess the required educational 
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 02 
to 03 will be rejected.  On arrival for the first interview 
the height, weight, chest and vision will be measured.  
candidates whose height, weight, chest and vision are below 
the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who 
have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. any 
candidate who has special ability / qualifications may at the 
discretion of the commander of the air force be considered, 
even though he / she does not have the pre requisite on any 
of above, provided that he/she possess the requisite of the 
Professional/ Special qualifications for the best interest of 
the Sri Lanka air force.
5. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
6. Conditions of Service: -
(a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air 
force as an airmen / airwomen on a regular 
or volunteer engagement and will undergo a 
Basic combat training course. on successful 
completion of training, the duration of which will 
depend on the trade, the status allocated on his / 
her enlistment as an other Rank.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
11
(b) airmen / airwomen will be required to undergo 
training at a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as 
decided by the commander of the air force in 
consultation with the Ministry of defence.
(c) during the period of training as airmen / 
airwomen and thereafter, personnel will be 
subject to air force Law.
(d) Every airmen / airwomen will be provided 
all items of uniforms, equipment and medical 
facilities.
(e) during the period of training, an airmen / 
airwomen will be accommodated in an air force 
Mess and will be provided with food.
(f) in the event of a airmen / airwomen voluntarily 
terminating his / her candidature during training, 
the parent or guardian will be required to refund 
to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred 
up to that time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on 
account of such airmen / airwomen. Parent or 
guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 
28 of the application form in respect of sub 
paragraphs (f) and (g) above and forward them 
together with the application. 
(g) if at any time during the course a airmen / 
airwomen is reported by the authorities as being 
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to 
causes within his / her control to qualify to be 
an airman/airwomen his  parent or guardian will 
be required to refund to the Sri Lanka air force 
all expenses incurred on his training and will be 
required to enter into a bond to this effect with the 
commander of the air force acting on behalf of 
the Government of Sri Lanka. Parent or guardian 
will sign a declaration as given in cage 28 of the 
application form in respect of sub paragraphs (f) 
and (g) above and forward them together with the 
application. 
      
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 28 of the application form in respect of 
Sub paragraphs (f) and (g) above, and forward 
them together with the application. Parent or 
guardian will be required to enter in to a bond 
subsequently in this form with the Republic 
of   Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these 
candidates as airmen / airwomen.
(j) candidates who possess the requirement as per 
para 1 to 4 will be called for the Preliminary 
interview and if successful will be called 
for Skill test, Medical Examinations and all 
candidates selected will be medically and 
physically examined under Sri Lanka air force 
arrangements to check the suitability in par with 
the Sri Lanka Air Force Medical fitness standards. 
candidates who successfully complete these tests 
will be called for the pre-enlistment. the required 
number of candidates per trade will be selected 
according to merit at these interviews and tests.
(k) a  single airmen/airwomen are required to live 
in the airmen barracks. he / She is provided with 
furnished accommodation and food. a single 
airman’s/airwoman ration allowance is paid to 
the Mess.
(l) a  married airman/ airwoman may be provided 
with a married quarter if available. Recovery of 
rental will be as applicable to public servants. 
(m) all airmen/ airwomen are liable to be posted for 
duty or training in any part of the world at any 
time.
(n) all airmen/ airwomen are governed by the air 
force act and orders issued from time to time.
7. Terms of engagement : 
 
(a) Volunteer Airmen / Airwomen - Computer 
Technicians (Network) and Beauticians
 
 Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third 
class of the rank of aircraftsman in the V olunteer 
air force and shall be required to serve for two (02) 
years. opportunities exist for suitable to extend for 
further service on completion of two (02) years of 
service on the discretion of the commander of the 
Sri Lanka air force. 
8. Official Language Requirements.– the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
Language act, No. 33 of 1956.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
12
9. Pay and Allowances :
(a) it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries  
including allowances indicated below are the 
initial step of particular rank.
Year Con Pay Total 
Allowances 
Total 
Income Rank
air craftsmen 29,540.00 12,150.00 41,690.00
Leading air 
craftsmen
30,440.00 12,150.00 42,590.00
corporal 31,340.00 12,150.00 43,490.00
(b) Pensions/Gratuities.– Payable in terms of the 
air force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 
and as amended from time to time. all airmen/ 
airwomen are contributors to the Widows and 
orphans Pension (armed force) Scheme. Rate 
of contributions are as per Widows and orphans 
Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 
1970.
10. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) applications should be submitted in applicants 
own handwriting in terms of the from specified 
below. all cages of the application should be 
filled with much detail as possible. Applications 
should be sent by registered post addressed to 
“COmmAND RECRuITING OffICER, SRI 
LANkA AIR fORCE TRADE TRAINING 
SChOOL, kOTuGODA” so as to reach there 
not later than 1200 noon on 10th january 2021. 
the Envelope enclosing the application should be 
marked “APPLICATION fOR  vOLuNTEER 
AIRmEN / AIRWOmEN” on the top left 
corner. applications received at Sri Lanka air 
force,  Kotugoda after closing date and time and 
not in accordance with the requirement of this 
notification and not in registered post will not be 
considered.
(b) candidates who are in Government Service/ 
corporations/ Boards/ civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
heads of departments / corporations/ Boards/
Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate 
to the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected.
(c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photo copy of the following 
documents when summoned for interviews or 
when called upon to do so.
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth and a 
photo copy. (Certificate issued for the purpose 
of the education code will not be accepted).
(2) National identity card and a photo copy.
(3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational qualifications required for the 
branch applied and photo copies.
(4) Certificates of trade / technical training and 
/ or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution and photo copies.
(5) Two recent certificates of character (within 
06 months obtained). one of these should be 
from the Principal of the last school attended 
and the other from a responsible person who 
has the know of the applicant for more than 
two years or from the present employer                      
(if employed).
(6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities and 
photo copies.
(7)  A plain folder with file tag.
(8)  A colour photo of 2x2½ inches certified by 
the GS.
       
(d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
(f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
11. Preliminary selections will be made amongst those 
candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates 
so selected will be required to undergo tests as may be 
prescribed by the commander of the air force. candidates 
considered suitable for the interview will be required to 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
13
appear for an interview at their own expense before an air 
force Recruiting Board. Such candidates will be informed 
individually of place, date and time. 
12. on every occasion an applicant is summoned for 
interviews, he/she  is to produce the National identity card. 
candidates who do not have the National identity card could 
produce some other form of the accepted identification. 
however, no candidates will be enlisted without the National 
identity card.
13. all candidates who are selected is required to undergo 
a medical screening test and a physical fitness test as per Sri 
Lanka air force Medical and fitness Standard during the 
selection process.
14. the required number of candidates per trade will be 
selected according to high marks merit at these interviews 
and tests.
15. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should 
do so by giving his testimonial. any form of canvassing or 
attempt to influence the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of his/her such candidates. 
16. candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified.
 S.K. 
pathirana, 
 WWV and Bar, RWP and Bar, RSP and three Bars, 
 VSV , uSP, MSc (Moa) uSa, MSc (def Stt.) in Mgt. 
 M. Phil (Ind.), MIM (SL), ndc (Ind), psc, qfi
 air Marshal.
 commander of the air force.
headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
P.o. Box 594,
colombo.
aPPLicatioN foR aiRMEN /aiRWoMEN iN thE …………………………………..
............................. tRadE of thE SRi LaNKa aiR foRcE
01. Nationality :––––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
02. full Name (as per the National identity card) :––––––––––––.
03. National identity card Number :––––––––––––.
04. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
05.  Postal address :––––––––––––.
06. date of birth :––––––––––––.
 (age as at 15 jan. 2021)  years :––––––––––––.  Months :––––––––––––.  days :––––––––––––.
07. height :––––––––––––. cm    (………..feet ……….inches)
 chest :––––––––––––. (for male candidates only)
08. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––––––––.
09. district :––––––––––––.
10. Electorate :––––––––––––.
11. GS division :––––––––––––.
12. t elephone number :––––––––––––.
13. Married or Single :––––––––––––.
14. Gender :––––––––––––.
15. School attended :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
14
16. Particulars of School qualifications obtained:
Name of School Type of examination Year and Index number of the  
examination
Subjects passed      
(including grading)
ordinary Level
advanced Level
other
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School: - (if applicable) 
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From To
                        
18. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present address
father
Mother
19. Any special qualification for the post :––––––––––––.
20. details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. and 
standards / levels achieved) :––––––––––––.
21. other achievements of note at School or with outside organizations (Give details with dates / years etc.) :–––––––––––.
22. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer force, cadet corps or Boy Scout organization :––––––––––––.
23. have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka air force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications :––––––––––––.
24. have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :––––––––––––.
25. if earlier employed in a Government department or in the Public Sector / Board / corporation (including the central 
Bank, National Bank, universities, joint Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination 
of employment :––––––––––––.
26. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
27.  declaration to be signed by the applicant:- 
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
15
those candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri 
Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the Republic of 
Sri Lanka.
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
28. declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of 
the applicant:
(a) i am the Parent / Guardian of ……………………… 
who is an applicant for a airmen/ airwomen in 
the Sri Lanka air force and who has signed the 
declaration in cage 27 of the form of application 
above. 
 
(b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following.
(1) t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant voluntarily 
terminating his / her candidature during his / 
her period of training all expenses incurred up 
to that time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on 
account of such applicant.
(2) t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported 
on by the authorities as being unsuitable (for 
reasons of misconduct or due to causes within 
his / her own control) for the continuation of 
service all the expenses incurred on his / her 
account by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
  ––––––––––––––,
   Signature of Parent /Guardian.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
            (in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
                   
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of first Witness.
      
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
            (in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Second Witness.
      
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
 (in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
01–31
REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages/
Additional marriages - Tamil medium
NuWaRa ELiya  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are called for the Post of Registrar of 
Births, deaths and Marriages/additional Marriages for the 
divisions set out in the schedule hereof;
01.  applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant 
Births, deaths and Marriages /additional Marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person 
with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient 
interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and female candidates can apply for this 
post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not 
more than 50 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications.(Maximum age of retirement is 65 years).
04.  applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages 
should be married and should not be a widow/widower or 
divorced.
05. applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects 
including tamil language with 03 credit passes in not more 
than two (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together 
with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the 
division or else should have passed in any other similar 
examination.
N.B.– in case a subject contains 02 parts at GcE 
(o/L) or any other similar examination, it 
shall be considered as one subject and pass is 
applicable only if the applicant passes both parts 
of the said subject.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
16
06.  Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of 
the post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. additional details such as village name list/Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Births, deaths 
and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained 
from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted in 
the schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said “annex -01” inclusive of village name list/Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from district Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 01st February 2021 by registered post to the address 
given in the Schedule. 
 K. G. 
Dharmathilaka, 
 Registrar General. 
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla,
on this 05th day of december, 2020.
ScheDule  
District Divisional
Secretariat Division
Post & Division for which Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Nuwara Eliya
Post of Births and deaths Registrar of Kotagala 
division and post of Marriages Registrar 
of Nuwara Eliya division (General) (tamil 
Medium)
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General,district 
Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya.
01-323
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
DEPARTmENT Of ExAmINATIONS, SRI LANkA
Structured Interview for recruitment to Grade III Post of management Assistant
Technological Segment 3 Service Category - 2019 (2020)
I hereby notify that the closing date for the submission of applications for the above recruitment published under notification 
No. 9-821 in the Gazette No. 2195 dated 25.09.2020 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and amended by the 
notification No. 10-556 in the Gazette No. 2196 dated 02.10.2020 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka has 
been extended till 22.01.2021.
 B. Sanath pujitha,
 commissioner General of Examinations.
department of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka Pelawatta, 
Battaramulla,
23rd december 2020.
01-63

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
17
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
Link Language (English) Examination for Sri 
Lanka Education Administrative Service - 2020
thE Link Language examination, conducted as per the 
service minute of Sri Lanka Education administrative 
Service No: 1928/28 and dated 21st august 2015, will be 
held in the month of april 2021 in colombo.
2. All officers belonging to Sri Lanka Education 
Administrative Service should obtain proficiency in Link 
Language within three (03) years of the date of recruitment.
Note 1: If an officer has obtained a minimum "C" pass 
or above at G.c.E. (o/L) examination OR has 
entered into the service appearing the recruitment 
examination in English medium, he / she shall be 
released from this requirement. All other officers 
need to get through this examination.
3. the syllabus and other provisions related to this 
examination was published in the Gazette extraordinary 
No: 1928/28 and dated 21 august 2015 of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Extracts of said gazette 
notification is given below for the benefit of applicants.
4. evaluation Procedure - Written test
Subject
Number Subject Marks Time
(Hours)
01 English
Language 100 02
4. Syllabus :
4.1. English Grammar
 A suitable level of proficiency on the following 
forms of grammar in spoken and written language 
is expected from the candidate.
-  t enses and numbers
-  Sentences (simple/compound/complex/
compound complex)
- Relative clauses 
- Reported speech
- adjectives and adverbs 
- determiners 
- Prepositions
4.2. Writing Skills
 the knowledge on the modern formats and styles 
of writing is tested in this area of study.
- Essay writing
-  Summary writing skills 
- Report writing skills 
- Letter writing
4.3. Reading Skills
 candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, 
infer meaning and verbal/written interpretation is 
expected.
- Reading and understanding the specific and 
general meaning of a printed text 
- Reading and interpretation (verbal/written)
5. applicants need to obtain minimum 40% or above in 
order to pass this examination.
5.1. commissioner General of Examinations shall 
forward the result sheet with the results of 
all applicants to the Secretary, Ministry of 
Education. No result sheets shall be issued to 
applicants individually.
6. applications prepared using both sides of a4 size 
paper need to be in conformity with the specimen given at 
the end of this notice. Item 01 to 04 should appear on the first 
page and the remaining items should appear on the second 
page. candidates should write relevant information in their 
own handwriting. applications not in conformity with the 
specimen provided at the end of this notice or applications 
with incomplete details shall be rejected without notification. 
therefore, candidates need to make certain if their 
applications are in conformity with the specimen provided, 
if all details are duly included, if exam fees has been duly 
paid and the receipt is attached and if payment details are 
clearly written in the relevant place on the application. it 
will be useful to keep a photocopy of the application with 
applicant. When preparing both Sinhala and tamil language 
applications, in addition to Sinhala or tamil language the 
name of the examination should also be written in English 
on the heading.
7. commissioner General of Examinations shall 
conduct the examination. all applicants should obey the 
rules and regulations endorsed by the commissioner 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
18
General of Examinations. candidates who violate such rules 
and regulations shall subject to punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. General Rules and 
regulations of the examinations are published separately 
in the gazette. Moreover, the candidates should adhere to 
prevailing quarantine laws and regulations of the country.
8. Submitting incorrect information - applicants should 
provide accurate information in completing the application. 
if an applicant found to be ineligible as per the rules and 
regulations of this examination, his / candidature shall 
be annulled at any moment before, during or after the 
examination.
9. applicants should forward their applications under 
registered cover, only through relevant head of the 
department/ Zonal director of Education, addressed to 
the commissioner General of Examinations, organization 
(institutional and foreign Examinations) Branch, department 
of Examinations, P.o. Box-1503, colombo to be received on 
or before 29/01/2021. Name of the examination should be 
clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. 
applications received after the closing date shall be rejected.
10. assuming that all applicants have necessary 
qualifications as per this notice, the Commissioner General of 
Examinations shall issue admissions for the applicants, who 
have submitted duly completed-applications on or before 
the closing date of applications, along with the payment 
receipt obtained for relevant examination fees. as soon as 
the admissions are issued for the examination, a notice on 
the official web site of the Department of Examinations 
and in Newspapers shall notify it. if any candidate does 
not receive his / her admission card for the examination 
within 2 to 3 days of such notice, they should contact the 
department of Examinations as per the instructions of said 
notice. With such requests, the applicant should send his / 
her name if full, address, identity card number and the name 
of the examination. in case of applicants residing outside 
colombo, it is advisable to mention a fax number (011-
2784232) for sending the admission card. Moreover, it will 
be useful to keep ready the copies of the original application, 
the payment receipt and receipt of postal registration 
as relevant when inquiring from the department of 
Examinations. issuing an admission to an applicant is not 
an acknowledgment that the applicant is qualified for the 
examination.
Note 2: complaints forwarded by the applicants who 
do not fulfill above requirements in paragraph 
10 above shall not be considered.
11. Signature of the applicant need to be gets attested in 
both application and admission by the head of the department 
or an officer appointed by him / her.
12. an applicant must sit for the examination in the 
relevant examination hall under the relevant examination 
number. On the first day of examination, each applicant must 
submit his / her duly perfected and attested admission card 
to the supervisor of examination hall. No applicant shall be 
allowed to sit for the examination without submitting the 
duly perfected and attested admission.
13. it is the responsibility of applicant to provide 
evidence in proof of his / her identity. only following 
documents shall be accepted for this purpose.
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) Valid passport
 (iii) Valid SriLankan driving license
Moreover, candidates should enter the examination hall 
without covering their face and ears so that their identity 
could be easily verified. Candidates who refuse to prove 
their identity will not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. all candidates, after entering the examination hall 
must stay without covering their face and ears until leaving 
the hall so that examination authorities could identify them 
easily.
14. examination Fees:
(a) No examination fees paid for this examination 
shall be refunded or allowed to be exchanged for 
any other examination under any circumstances.
(b) No fees shall be levied for the first attempt.
(c) Every attempt after the first shall be levied Rs. 
250.00.
15. Examination fees should be paid in credit to the 
revenue head number 20-30-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of examinations. having made the said payment to 
any post office in the island the receipt should be firmly fixed 
in the relevant cage on the application. it will be useful to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with applicant. No money 
orders or stamps will be accepted as examination fees.
16. if any inconsistency found among Sinhala, tamil and 
English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text shall be 
considered as the final.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
19
17. the right of making decisions regarding any matter, 
which has not been covered by this notification, is reserved 
by the Secretary, the Ministry of Education.
 Pro. k. kapila c. k. perera, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education. 
at Ministry of Education, 
isurupaya, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
on 21st december, 2020.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN 
link language (engliSh) examination For Sri lanka 
eDucation aDminiStrative Service claSS iii - 2020 
01.  (i)  full Name (iN BLocK caPitLaS) : 
   .................................................................................
  (E.g. hERath MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 (ii)  Name with initials in Block capitals (Last name 
first) : .......................................................................
  (E.g. GuNaWaRdhaNa h.M.S.K)
  (iii) full name in Sinhala /t amil : ..................................
02. (i)  class in Sri Lanka Education administrative Service: 
   ........................................................................................
 (ii) Present place of work: .............................................
03.  address :
 i. Private : ...................................................................
 II. Official: ....................................................................
 iii. address for sending the admission: .........................
 IV . Official Telephone No. : ..........................................
 V . Mobile No. : 
04. (i)  National identity card Number :
 (ii)  date of Birth :
  y ear :                        Month :               date :
 (iii)  Gender: Male - 0 female -1
  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
05.  details of the examination payment receipt:
  Receipt No. : ............................................................
  Post office: ...............................................................
  date:  ........................................................................
  amount Paid :  ..........................................................
Affix the Original Receipt Here
06. i hereby declare that the details given above are true 
and accurate. further, i hereby wish to declare that i 
am abide by the rules and regulations endorsed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
  ..................................,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :........................
07.  commissioner General of Examinations :
I hereby certify that the above applicant is an officer 
working in my office. He is free of the examination fees / the 
receipt of the examination is affixed above (*).
 ..................................,
 head of the department
  Post and Official Seal.
date :........................
(*) cut off if payment of examination fees is not required
01–01
––––––––––––––––––––
RECRuITmENT Of b.SC. (NuRSING) 
GRADuATES fOR ThE 
ORIENTATION AND COORDINATION 
COuRSE IN NuRSING- 2019/2020
aPPLicatioNS are called from eligible Sri Lankan 
citizens who have obtained the B.Sc. in Nursing from an 
institute or university recognized by the university Grants 
commission to recruit to the orientation and coordination 
course in nursing of the Ministry of health.
01. from the applicants, 25% of the annual training 
requirement will be selected based on a priority list prepared 
according to the effective date of the degree and GP a and 
considering the existing vacancies.
02. Educational Qualifications relevant to the Post.– 
Should have completed B.Sc. in Nursing from a Sri Lankan 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
20
or foreign institute/university recognized by the university 
Grants commission.
03. Physical Fitness and Other Qualifications :
(a) Each candidate should be physically fit to serve in
any part of the island.
(b) Should be physically fit to discharge duties in the
post.
(c) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
(d) Should be excellent in character.
(e) Both males and females can apply.
(f) Should be not less than 18 years and not more
than 35 years of age as at 29.01.2021
(g) the effective date of the degree should be a date
prior to 29.01.2021
04. Method of Apply :
(a) the application should be prepared in accordance
with the specimen form appended to this. Papers
in the size of a4 should be used for this. details
from 1 to 12 should appear on the first page and
details from 13 to 15 should appear on the second
page and 16 should appear on the third page.
(b)
Copies of Degree certificate and the certificate
which includes the GPA, certified by himself /
herself should be attached to the application.
(c)
Receipt obtained by paying the amount of Rs
500/- to the credit of the account of the director
General of health Services - collection of
Examination fees No 7041318 of the Bank of
Ceylon Thaprobane branch should be affixed
in the cage given in the application. this fee
is neither refunded nor allowed to transfer to
another examination for any reason.
(
d) Signature of the applicant should be attested
by an officer in the Sri Lanka administrative
Service /an officer in the Sri Lanka Educational
administrative Service /a Principal of a
Government school / a justice of the Peace/
an Attorney at - Law/ or an officer who holds a
permanent and pensionable post in the Public
Service and obtains a consolidated salary not less
than Rs. 240,360/- per annum.
(e)
 o n the top left hand corner of the envelop in
which the application is enclosed, it should be 
mentioned the words “Recruitment of B.Sc.
(Nursing) Graduates for orientation and co-
ordination course in Nursing -2019/2020” and 
the relevant degree and the academic year. 
the applications should be sent by registered 
post to reach the director (admin) 01, 
Ministry of  health,“Suwasiripaya”, 385,Rev. 
Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10, on or before 29.01.2021
Note: Candidate should have satisfied qualifications 
given under above (2) and (3) and all other 
qualifications by 29.01.2021 in all respects.
05. applications of the employees of public or semi-
government institutions should be sent through the respective 
head of department. and you should also note that this is 
an external recruitment and you cannot be reverted to the 
current post if you are able or not able to complete the 
relevant course successfully.
06.
applications which are not in compliance with the
terms of the general circular, in complete, not in compliance 
with the specimen form of application, not completed 
the basic qualifications and in which no bank receipt is 
affixed and not registered on or before 29.01.2021 will be 
rejected without any notice and receipt of applications is not 
acknowledged.
07. From the applicants who have fulfilled above
qualifications, applicants selected based on a priority list 
prepared considering the effective date of the degree and the 
GP
a are only called for the interview. a general interview 
will be conducted by an interview board appointed by the 
Secretary to the Ministry of health, and the interview board 
will check the qualifications mentioned in the Nursing 
Service Minute and this Gazette notification and the physical 
fitness.
Note :
(a)
the number of the recruitments to the training and
the number of applicants called for interview will
be decided by the Secretary of the Ministry of
health on the exigency of service.
(b) No section contained herein shall be deemed to
imply or be construed to mean that all those who
attended the interview are recruited to the training.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
21
(c) Particulars of the applicants who are qualified, 
disqualified at the interview and those who are not 
selected are published on the web site www.health.
gov.lk and no one will be informed in person.
08. applicants should submit at the interview the 
originals of the following documents and the copies certified 
by himself/herself.
(a) Birth certificate, obtained from the Additional 
district Registrar within three months from the 
date of being collect for the interview.
(b) Originals of the degree certificate and the 
certificate which indicates the GPA with copies 
certified by himself/herself.
(c) National identity card or Valid Passport or 
Driving License with copies certified by himself/
herself.
09. Procedure of training :
Course
Duration of 
the
course
Medium
orientation and coordination 
course in nursing 06 Months English
(a) Selected applicants are attached to the relevant 
training schools to follow the orientation and 
coordination course. the course should be followed 
in the medium of English.
(b) trainees admitted to the training schools shall be 
subject to the rules and regulations of the training 
schools and any other order imposed by the Ministry 
of health from time to time.
(c) training of those who do not complete the training 
successfully at the end of the training period, whose 
work and conduct are not satisfactory or who fail to 
adhere to terms and conditions of the training school 
may be terminated at any time without compensation.
(d) during the period of training, the monthly 
allowance paid to the student nurses in the third 
year is paid subject to the provisions given in Public 
administrative circular 03/2016.
(e) at the time he/she is admitted to the training, he/ she 
should enter in to an agreement and a surety bond with 
the director General of health Services that he/ she 
will complete the training successfully, not abandon 
the training course and serve in the post concerned 
in the hospital of relevant provincial council or the 
Line Ministry to which he/she is appointed or in 
department of health for at least a period of 5 years 
if an appointment is granted at the completion of the 
said training. the agreement and the surety bond 
should be submitted to the EtR branch on the same 
day of registration. if he/she resigns from the training 
or leaves the training during the training period or 
his/her training has to be terminated in terms of 
above (c) or fails to serve i nteh post concerned in 
the hospital of relevant Provincial council or the 
Line Ministry to which he/she is appointed or in 
department of health for a period of 5 years after the 
appointment he/she should refund the department of 
health the expenses incurred by the Government and 
the amount of the surety bond. if not legal action 
will be taken to recover the said amount as per the 
agreement. terms of engagement
10. Terms of engagement.– at the end of the training, 
grant or not grant of permanent appointments to the post 
concerned will be decided based on the number of vacancies 
existing at the time. if the Ministry of health decided 
to grant permanent appointments to the post concerned, 
candidates will be appointed to the post of Staff Nursing 
Officer in Grade III subject to the conditions in the scheme of 
recruitment applicable to the training they were admitted and 
considering the number of vacancies and they will be placed 
on the salary relevant to the step of the salary code Mt -7 
2016 mentioned in Schedule i of the Public administration 
circular 03/2016.
11. Particulars regarding the educational and other 
qualifications should be mentioned carefully and accurately 
in filling the applications. If the certificates were found to 
be false after admission to the training or after receiving 
an appointment, action will be taken to refer the case to 
the department of criminal investigation in order to take 
legal action and to cancel the appointment and dismiss from 
the training/ post and disciplinary action will be taken and 
his/her name will be entered into the blacklist which is an 
index of the names of persons who will not be employed 
by the government. further, action will be taken to recover 
the allowance paid to him/ her during the period of training, 
expenses borne by the Government and the sum of the surety 
bond.
12. Selected applicants should submit themselves to a 
medical examination within the first month of the training to 
prove that they are physically and mentally fit to follow the 
course concerned and to serve in any part of the island and 
the applicants found not to be fit in the medical examination 
will not be eligible to continue the course.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
22
13. trainees have no right to engage either in trade union activities or in private practice during the period of 
training. if found to have done so, action will be taken to terminate the training or to take any other appropriate action.
14. All recruited as above will be subject to all rules and regulations applicable to the Public Officers, and provisions 
of the Establishments code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, polices prescribed by the department of health, 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, financial Regulations and the Nursing Service Minute and amendments 
made thereto from time to time and general regulations imposed by the Government from time to time.
15. Ministry is not bound to provide residential facilities at the training schools for the applicants recruited to the 
training. if so provided assessed house and room rental, water and electricity bill will be charged.
16. in case any problem arises in respect of any matter regarding recruitment to the training which is covered or not 
covered by this general circular decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health shall be final and in case of any 
inconsistency between the text in Sinhala, tamil and English, the text in Sinhala shall prevail.
  
 dr. S.h. 
munaSinghe,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of health.
"Suwasiripaya"
385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10. Sri Lanka,
31st december, 2020 at Ministry of health.
 
Specimen form of Application
REcRuitMENt of B.S.c (NuRSiNG) GRaduatES foR thE oRiENtatioN aNd cooRdiNatioN couRSE 
iN NuRSiNG -2019/2020 
Read the General Circular carefully before perfect the application.
01.  (a) Last name with initials.(in English capital letters) : 
   .....................................................................................................................................................................................
   .....................................................................................................................................................................................
 (b) Name in full (in English capital letters) :
   .....................................................................................................................................................................................
   .....................................................................................................................................................................................
 (c) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil)-
   .....................................................................................................................................................................................
   .....................................................................................................................................................................................
02.  N.i.c. No.  : ..........................................................................................................................................................................
03.  Postal address : ....................................................................................................................................................................
04.  Permanent address : ............................................................................................................................................................
05.  telephone No. : ....................................................................................................................................................................
06. (a) district of residence :  .................................................................................................................................................
 (b) Whether you are a permanent resident in this district?: ..............................................................................................
07. (a) date of Birth : year :.............................. Month :..............................   date :.............................. 
 (b) age as at 29.01.2021 -  years :.............................. Months :..............................   days :.............................. 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
23
08. Gender -        female :                         Male :                     (Mark P in the relevant cage)
09. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka             yes :                   No :                 (Mark P in the relevant cage)
10.  civil Status - Single                       Married             (Mark P in the relevant cage)
11.  height- feet :............................            inches :............................                 
12.  Educational Qualifications :
Degree Obtained effective date of the degree G PA University Academic year
13. have you ever been convicted before a court of law?   yes                    No                 (Mark P in the relevant cage)
         if yes give particulars.
   .....................................................................................................................................................................................
   .....................................................................................................................................................................................
   .....................................................................................................................................................................................
14. Certificate of the applicants -
i solemnly declare that i read carefully and understood the Gazette Notification  and perfected the application 
subject to all conditions therein, that i do not attend any full time course and that the particulars furnished by me in the 
application are true and correct to my knowledge.
i am also aware that if this declaration or any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect i am 
liable to be disqualified for the training and if so found after appointment I am liable to be dismissed.
i am also aware that this is an external recruitment and if i complete /not complete the training successfully i cannot 
be reverted to the current post in any manner.
Affix here the bank receipt obtained by  paying Rs. 500.00 
   .....................................,
   Signature of the applicant.
date :.........................
15. attestation of the signature of the applicant-
i hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss......................................................... who submit this application is personally 
known to me and he/she placed his/her and signature on ..............................................in my presence.  
 ...................................,
 Signature and official frank of Attestor.
date :......................... 
full name of attestor : ...............................................................................................................................................................
Post :...........................................................................................................................................................................................
address : ....................................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
24
16. Certification of the Head of Department if the candidate is serving in the Public service / Provincial public Service 
(delete irrelevant words)
i hereby certify that the above candidate Mr/Mrs/Miss ............................................ holds the post of .....................
................ in this department.
i certify that the particulars furnished in the application are true and he / she can /cannot be released if he /she is 
selected for the post.
i also inform that he / she was explained that this is an external recruitment, he / she cannot be reverted to the 
current post in any manner after he / she successfully completes or not complete the training concerned.
 ..........................................,
 Signature and official frank of the Head of Department.
date :.........................
Name of the head of department : ....................................................................................................
Post :...................................................................................................................................................
address : ............................................................................................................................................
01–208
–––––––––––––––––––––––
COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION ON LImITED 
bASIS fOR PROmOTION TO SuPER GRADE 
Of PubLIC hEALTh mANAGEmENT 
ASSISTANTS' SERvICE - 2018(2020)
cLoSiNG date for submission of applications perfected 
by applicant to the head of institution mentioned in 
Paragraph 8(1) of the examination notification regarding the 
"Competitive Examination on Limited Basis for Promotion 
to Super Grade of Public health Management assistants' 
Service - 2018(2020) in the Gazette of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2, 206 published on 
friday, december 11, 2020 shall be amended as 15.01.2021.
 dr. S. h. 
munaSinghe, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of health. 
Ministry of health, 
No. 385, 'Suwasiripaya',
Rev. Baddegama Wimalasena thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10,
05th january, 2021. 
01–337/1
COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION fOR 
PROmOTION TO SuPER GRADE Of PubLIC 
hEALTh mANAGEmENT ASSISTANTS' 
SERvICE ON mERIT bASIS - 2018(2020)
cLoSiNG date for submission of applications perfected 
by applicant to the head of institution mentioned in 
Paragraph 7(a) of the examination notification regarding 
the "Competitive Examination for Promotion to Super 
Grade of Public health Management assistants' Service on 
Merit Basis - 2018(2020) in the Gazette of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2, 206 published on 
friday, december 11, 2020 shall be amended as 15.01.2021.
 dr. S. h. 
munaSinghe, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of health. 
Ministry of health, 
No. 385, 'Suwasiripaya',
Rev. Baddegama Wimalasena thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10,
05th january, 2021. 
01–337/2

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
25
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION - 
2020/2021 AND LImITED COmPETITIvE 
ExAmINATION 2020/2021 fOR 
RECRuITmENT TO ThE POSTS IN fIELD/
OffICE bASED - SEGmENT 2(mN-05-2016) 
Of ThE DEPARTmENT Of ARChAEOLOGy 
uNDER ThE STATE mINISTRy Of NATIONAL 
hERITAGE, PEROfRmING ARTS AND RuRAL 
ARTS PROmOTION
thE closing date for applications prescribed in part 'd' under 
method of application in No. 07 of the notification for calling 
applications for the above posts, which has been published in 
the Gazette No. 2,206 under Section 12-332/1 and 12-332/2 
dated friday, 11th of december 2020, is hereby extended up 
to 29th january 2021. 
accordingly, the applications duly perfected should be 
sent to reach commissioner General of Eaminations, 
organization (institutional foreign Examinations) branch, 
department of Examinations, P. o. Box 1503, colombo on 
or before 29.01.2021.
 Prof. 
anura manathunga, 
 director of General of archaeology. 
department of archaeology, 
colombo 07,
01st january, 2021. 
01–360
––––––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of ImmIGRATION AND 
EmIGRATION
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Authorized 
Officers Grade II of the Department of 
Immigration and Emigration -2018(2021)
1. it is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar 
Examination for the Authorized Officers will be held in 
colombo by the department of Examinations of Sri Lanka in 
the month of May 2021 as per the provisions of the approved 
Scheme of Recruitment related to the Authorized Officers of 
the   department of immigration and Emigration.
2. (i) candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
prescribed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
of the department of Examinations of Sri Lanka regarding 
the conduct of the examination and the issuance of results. 
the decision of the commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding the conduct of the examination and the issuance of 
results will be final.
(ii) the rules and regulations for candidates have 
been separately printed in the Gazette Notification. 
candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed 
by the commissioner - General of Examinations in case for 
violation of these rules and regulations.
3. examination fees: candidates may appear for the 
subjects prescribed for the examination at the same time or 
separately. candidates appearing for the whole examination 
or one subject for the first time need not pay examination 
fees. however, for subsequent sittings, Rs. 500/= for the 
whole examination and Rs. 250/= for only one subject should 
be paid at any post-office/ sub post office island-wide to be 
credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. the receipt obtained should be 
affixed to the relevant cage of the applications form. (It 
is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the 
candidate).the examination fees will not be refunded or 
transferred in respect of any other examination under any 
circumstances.
4. Applications.– the application should be in the form of 
the specimen appended to this notification and applications 
should be prepared on a paper of a4 size, using both sides 
in such a manner that Nos. 01 to 06 appear on the first page 
and the remaining numbers on the second page. When 
preparing the application, applicant should indicate the 
title of the examination appearing the specimen in English 
language on both Sinhala and tamil applications in addition 
to Sinhala language and tamil language respectively. the 
application could be typewritten, but it should be filled in 
correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting. the 
completed application form for the examination should 
be sent through the head of the department by registered 
post to reach “commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization (Establishment and foreign Examinations) 
Branch, department of Examinations – Sri Lanka, P. o. 
Box 1503, colombo” on or before 15.02.2021. the name 
of the examination should be indicated on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope. applications that are not complete 
in every respect and applications received after the closing 
date will be rejected. it is the responsibility of the candidate 
to ensure that the application form perfected by him/her self 
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice. 
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form.)
5. candidates shall be required to prove their identity at 
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for 
each subject they offer. for this purpose, any of the following 
documents will be accepted:

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
26
 (i) National identity card 
 (ii) Valid passport
 (iii) Valid driving license of Sri Lanka
further, candidates shall enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears enabling to identify them at the 
hall. those, who refuse to reveal their identity, shall not be allowed to enter the examination hall. further, such candidates 
shall remain their face and ears uncovered enabling the supervisors to identify them without any obstacle until they are 
allowed to leave at the end of the prescribed examination.
6. the commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards along with a copy of the time table to all 
candidates whose applications have been received, presuming that the candidate has fulfilled relevant eligibility qualification. 
A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates by the Department 
of Examinations. if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to 
notify the Department of Examinations through the telephone numbers specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable 
to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the department of Examinations: i.e. a copy of the application from 
kept at your possession, copy of the receipt obtained at payment of Examination fee, name, address, National identity card 
number and the name of the examination. in case of an applicant residing outside colombo, a letter of the request furnishing 
the above particulars and a fax number to which a copy of the admission card is to be sent should be sent to the department 
of Examinations through fax, in order to obtain a copy of the Examination admission card.
7. candidate’s signature in the application form and the admission card should have been attested by the head of 
the Institution or an Officer authorized by him. The Candidate must sit the examination according to the index number and 
examination hall   assigned to him/her. Every candidate should get his/her admission card attested in advance and surrender 
it to the supervisor of the hall on the day he/she presents himself for the examination. any candidate who fails to produce 
his/her admission card on the Examination day will not be permitted to sit the examination.
8. the Post and Service Station of the candidate, at the time he/she applies for the examination will be applicable 
for all matters relating to examination and any changes which occur thereafter in the Post and Service Station after sending 
the application will not be considered.
9. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear for the examination.  No traveling expenses will 
be paid.
10. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. If an officer has been recruited to the 
government service through a competitive examination, the medium of such examination or if the officer has been recruited 
to the government service without a competitive examination, the medium of the examination which served as an entry 
qualification to be recruited for the Public Service should be selected as the medium of the examination. The candidates are 
required to sit for all the subjects in one medium and language medium of examination applied for will not be allowed to 
change later.
11. examination Procedure:
1. Name of the examination : First Efficiency Bar Examination for Authorized Officers Grade II of the 
department of immigration and Emigration 
2. Particulars of the examination
Question Paper Duration Total marks Minimum marks  
required to pass
Question paper 01 immigrants & Emigrants Statutory Provisions i 02 hours 100 40%
Question paper 02 immigrants & Emigrants Statutory Provisions ii 02 hours 100 40%
Question paper 03 Establishments code & financial Regulations 02 hours 100 40%

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
27
3. the authority for conducting examination : the commissioner General of Examinations
4. how often the examination is conducted   :at least twice a year
5. Syllabus for the  examination :
Name of the Question Paper               Syllabus
Question paper 01- immigrants & 
Emigrants Statutory Provisions i
1. immigrants and Emigrants act. No 20 of 1948 and amendments made thereto.
2. citizenship act No. 18 of 1948 and amendments made thereto.
3.Grant of citizenship to Persons of chinese origin (Special Provisions)act 
No.38 of 2008
4. indo-ceylon agreement (implementation) act No. 14 of 1967 
5.Electronic travel authorization System &
Statutory Regulations imposed thereto.
Question paper 02- immigrants & 
Emigrants Statutory Provisions ii
1.Registration of Persons act No.32 of 1968
2. Extradition Law No.08 of 1977 and amendments made thereto.
3. indian and Pakistani Residents (citizenship) act.
4. Subsequent amendments to these acts and the regulations imposed under the 
same.
5. chapters Xi, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XV of Part V of criminal Procedure code which 
are related to duties.
6. Practical issues related to  immigrants and Emigrants act
Question paper 03 - Establishments 
code & financial Regulations
1.chapters ii, iv, Vii,Xii,Xiii ,XiV ,XLVii,XLViii of the Establishments code
2. Procedural Rules published by the Public Service commission in the 
Government Gazette (extra ordinary ) No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009
3. f.R.2(1),135,136,137,138,139 and chapters iV ,Vi of the financial Regulations
Note:-
 candidates can sit for the above  examination at once or separately.
 if a candidate fails to complete the examination within the prescribed period, his/her next increment will be subjected 
to differ.
12. the issue of an admission card to sit for the examination should not be considered as an acceptance of requisite 
qualifications of a candidate to compete at the examination.
13. The decision of the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration will be final in respect of any matter, 
which has not been provided for in this gazette notification. 
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala 
notification shall prevail. 
      
controller General of immigration and Emigration.      
department of immigration and Emigration,
“Suhurupaya”,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
28
SPEciMEN foRM of aPPLicatioN
FirSt eFFiciency bar examination For authorizeD oFFicerS graDe ii oF the Department oF immigration anD emigration 
-2018(2021)
(For office use only)  
 Medium of language in which the candidate intends to appear for the examination  
 Sinhala -  2
 t amil - 3
 English - 4
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1. 1.1  Name in full (in English block capitals):  .....................................................................................................................
   (eg: hERath MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end (in English block capitals): ............................................................................................
  (eg : GuNa WaRdhaNa h.M. S. K)
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil):  ..........…………………………..………………..…………………………………
…… ...............................................................................................................................................................................
2. 2.1 Name and the Address of Office / Department / institution 
              (in English block capitals):  ..........................................................................................................................................
       ................................................................................………………………………………………………………..
  (admission will be posted to this address)
 2.1 Name and the Address of Office / Department / institution 
  (in Sinhala/t amil):  .......................................................................................................................................................
    ......................................................................................................................................................................................
 2.2 Private address: 
  (in Sinhala/t amil):  .......................................................................................................................................................
    ......................................................................................................................................................................................
3.  Gender: 
  Male     - 0
  female -  1
             (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
4.  National identity card  Number:
5.  Mobile Phone No. : 
6.  Subject/Subjects you are appearing for this examination :
Serial Number Subject Subject Number
7.  date of Birth:    year :                                  Month :                        date :
8.  Present Post :
 8.1  Post : .............................................................................................................................................................................
 8.2  Number of the letter of appointment: ...........................................................................................................................

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
29
9. 9.1  Are you sitting the examination for the first time? : ........................................................
 9.2 if not, the fee paid:  ..........................................................................................................
 9.3 Receipt Number:  .............................................................................................................
 9.4 date:  ................................................................................................................................
Affix the receipt securely here. (If applicable only)
(it would be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
10. i declare that the above particulars are true and i am eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium 
indicated above and the receipt obtained by paying Rs. ………. has been affixed hereto. Further, I agree to be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner-General of Examinations in respect of conducting and the 
issuing of results of this examination. 
 ……………………………………..,
 Signature of candidate.
date: ...............................
The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of his/her Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of 
such head of department.
11. attestation of the Signature :
I certify that Mr. / Mrs. / Miss...................................................................................... who is an Authorized officer 
in my department and who is known to me personally, placed his / her signature in my presence on............................ and 
further, the receipt  of examination  fee is affixed on payment of relevant fee.
 ……………………………………………………………….,
                                                                            Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
Name :  ..........................................
designation  :  ..........................................
address  :  ..........................................
Date :  ……………………………………….. (To be certified by placing the Official Frank)   
      
12. Certificate of the Head of the Department
 i certify that,
 1. the particulars furnished by the candidate have been examined ;
 2. the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.  
       
  .....................................,
  Signature and official stamp of the  Head of the Department.
01–234
––––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hEALTh
Recruitment of Trainees for the Public health midwife Training Course in the Paramedical Service
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens, who have passed the GcE (a / L) examination in any stream either 
in 2015, 2016 or 2017 for the recruitment as trainees for the Public health Midwife training course in the Paramedical 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
30
Services of the Ministry of Health. Applications can be only submitted through the official website of this Ministry (www.
health.gov.lk).
Note: the students who have applied and have been selected through interviews and have already registered for the Public 
Health Midwife training program, as per the Gazette Notification No. 2139 dated 30.08.2019, are NOT required to 
re-apply under this Gazette notification.
Table 1:
Service Training Course Duration Language
Paramedical
Service
Public health
Midwife 1 1/2 years including 6 months of field training Sinhala or
tamil
02. Education and other  special qualifications related to the post:
Table 2:
Qualifications in GCE Ordinary 
Level
G.C.E.(A/L) qualifications Other specific qualifications relevant to the training 
course
Should have passed six subjects 
including English language with
credit Passes for Sinhala/tamil 
language, Mathematics, Science 
and one other subject in not 
more than two sittings at the 
G.c.E. (o/L) examination
Passing three (03) subjects 
in one attempt in any subject 
stream in the GcE advanced 
Level examination in the years 
2015 or 2016 or 2017.
Preference will be given to 
applicants from science stream 
in GcE advanced Level 
examination.
1 only females can apply.
2 Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 
30 years of age by the closing date of applications 
01/02/2021
3 Should be 4 feet and 10 inches or above in height 
(147.3 cm).
4 Should be unmarried and should not get married 
during the period of training.
Students who are engaged in the field service at the 
end of the theoretical training should also not get 
married until they are granted formal appointments.
3. Particulars Specific to the training course:
3.1. Recruitments will be made from the candidates who have satisfied the qualifications in terms of the 
Scheme of Recruitment for the post of Public health Midwife of Para Medical Service and amendments 
made thereto from time to time and based on the Z score obtained at the G.c.E. (a/L) examination.
3.2. the number of recruitments for training is determined by the predicted number of vacancies and training 
capacity. the total number to be recruited from the island will be determined proportionally to the 
population of each district. 
3.3 the number to be recruited from each year will then be determined in proportion to the total number of 
applicants who have applied with minimum required educational qualifications for each year from the 
relevant district.
3.4. Preference will be given to the applicants who have passed GcE advanced Level examination from 
science stream. the number to be recruited from each year is then proportionately divided on the basis of 
the number of applicants who have completed the minimum qualifications from each subject stream and 
will be selected on a district basis based on the applicants Z score.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
31
3.5. In cases where the number of vacancies allotted to a district cannot be filled by the applicants who 
have qualified for that district, the number of vacancies will be redistributed among all the districts in 
proportion to the population of those districts.
4.  General information:
 4.1. Must be a Sri Lankan citizen
 4.2. Every applicant should be bound to serve in any part of the country
 4.3. Must be in good physical and mental fitness
 4.4. applicants must be of excellent character
 4.5. one should agree to serve at least 10 years if you are granted a permanent appointment in the public 
service (Line Ministry) or Provincial Public Service after the completion of the training period
 4.6. Must have resided in the district in which they are applying for 03 consecutive years prior to 
the last date for receipt of applications, (ie 01/02/2021). The Certificate of residence issued by the Grama 
Niladhari should be submitted to prove the period of residence.
Note: - if the applicant cannot prove residency within the previous 03 years, due to an acceptable reason such as 
applicant’s father or mother employed in a government, provincial public service or a transferable service 
in a public corporation or for any other unavoidable reason; the final decision will be taken by the Secretary, 
Ministry of health.
5.  Other facts:
 5.1. This is a full-time course. Therefore, students pursuing any full-time course five days a week and Saturday 
mornings at a university or other government institution or under the Ministry of health should not apply. 
if a person pursuing a full-time course at a university or other government institution intends to do so, she 
should do so as shown below (5.2). if a person who is enrolled in a full-time training course under the 
Ministry of health intends to apply for this, she should proceed as shown below (5.3.). if a person applies 
for this without complying with Sections (5.2.) & (5.3.), and is later found guilty, she will be removed from 
the relevant course / post and the Government will recover all the expenses incurred by her up to that point.
 5.2. if you are enrolled in a full-time course at a university or other government institution, you must have 
cancelled that registration by the date you enrol in the Public health Midwife training course. if you have 
enrolled for a full-time course and have not attended the lectures, you will be considered a student at a 
university or other government institution, so such applicants should also cancel their registration. you must 
have sufficient written evidence to substantiate when necessary. 
 5.3 if applicants who are enrolled in full time training courses under the Ministry of health are selected for this 
training, they will be registered for this training only if they pay the contract amount and all the allowances 
paid to them in accordance with the agreements signed.
 5.4. if you have completed a degree from a university, the effective date of the degree should be before the date 
of admission to this course.
 5.5. you should also cancel your registration prior to entering the training course even if you have not enrolled 
by 01/02/2021, and subsequently registered for a full-time course at a university or other government 
institution or under the Ministry of health.
 5.6. it should be strictly noted that no section contained in this Gazette notification implies to admit you 
compulsory to the course applied for even if all the above conditions have been fulfilled. It should also be 
noted even if you have satisfied the above conditions, you are not eligible for above courses in any respect 
if you have not obtained a sufficient Z score to be eligible or if you have not fulfilled any other condition
 5.7  Educational Qualifications and all other qualifications should have been completed in full by the last date 
for applications, ie 01/02/2021.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
32
6. How to apply: 
6.1 Applications for this training course should be done online in the relevant section of the official website of 
the Ministry of health (www.health.gov.lk). See the instruction sheet for completing the application.
6.2 applicants should pay Rs. 500 / - should be paid to the account of the director General of health Services, 
Bank of ceylon, taprobane Branch, No. 7041318. Payment can be made at any Bank of ceylon branch, cash 
deposit machine or online banking service. these fees will not be refunded for any reason and will not be 
allowed to be transferred for any other examination.
6.3. copy of the application that you have successfully uploaded need not be mailed to the Ministry of health. 
however, keep the 5-digit code received after uploading the application in a safe place for easy access of 
hard copies later. A printed copy of the application should also be obtained and affixed with your signature 
at the relevant place and if called, should be taken to the interview. (See paragraph 7.1.)
Note: - Candidates who have all the qualifications to apply for this course can only contact the Human Resource 
Management and coordination division on weekdays from 9 am to 4 pm for any technical assistance. (Please do 
not call to obtain the details clearly described In the Gazette notification and on the Ministry of Health website)
7. Attestation of the applicant’ s signature :
7.1. The signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in Sri Lanka Administrative Service / an 
officer in Educational Administrative Service / an officer in Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service / a Government 
Principal / a Justice of the Peace / an Attorney of Law or an officer who holds a permanent and pensionable 
post and draws a salary not less than Rs. 512,148/-
7.2. applications should be submitted by the head of their department for the employees of government or 
semi-governmental organizations. Please note, though, that this is an external recruitment.
7.3 applications that do not comply with the terms of this notice or that are incomplete will be rejected 
without any notice.
8. Information to be submitted if you are called for an interview:
 8.1. Based on a Z-score of the candidates who have completed the minimum educational qualifications as 
per the online application you have submitted, only selected candidates will be called for interviews. 
the interview board appointed by the Secretary to the Ministry of health will perform an interview and 
the interview board will review the qualifications and physical fitness referred to in the notification in 
this gazette. original copies of the following documents should be submitted by applicants during the 
interview.
 8.2. Printed copy of the online application (with the signature) duly attested
 8.3. Birth certificate
 8.4. Results sheet of the GcE (a / L) Examination with the Z score (issued by the department of Examinations)
 8.5. Results sheet of the GcE (o/L) Examination (issued by the department of Examinations)
 8.6. National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons or a valid Passport or driving 
License
 8.7. a  Receipt proving payment of Rs. 500/-
 8.8. Certificate of Residence issued by the Grama Niladhari
 8.9. A formal affidavit signed on a stamp valued at Rs 50/-in the presence of the Justice of the Peace to affirm 
that the applicant is not married.
 8.10. a  solemn declaration by the applicant addressed to the Secretary of Ministry of health stating that she 
is not enrolling in any other course held by any university or government institution/Ministry of health 
and if selected for the training course, that you will be withdrawing registration from the course already 
registered. (This is a self-written letter. It does not need to be certified by anyone else)

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
33
Note:
 (a) in addition to the originals of the documents (8.2) to (8.10) mentioned above, photocopies of those should 
be brought at the time of the interview.
 (b) the Secretary to the Ministry of health decides the number of candidates to be recruited for the training and 
to be called for the interview according to the capacity of the training facilities and service requirements.
 (c) None of the clauses contained herein are meant to imply that all who appear for the interview will be 
recruited for training.
9. Scheme of training:
9.1. applicants chosen from the interviews will be admitted to the training schools to follow this training course. 
the duration of the course and the medium of study are shown in table i.
9.2. the rules applicable to the training schools and other regulations provided time to time by the Ministry of 
health will apply to trainees. 
9.3 Trainees who fail the examinations during the training period or who are deficient in their work or conduct, 
who fail to comply with the conditions of the examination and leave; and whose training and other 
requirements for the recruitment of trainees are found to be fraudulent, the training can be terminated 
without compensation at any time.
9.4. a  monthly allowance shall be paid to trainees during the training period in compliance with the requirements 
of Schedule V of the Public administration circular 03/2016.
9.5. an agreement and a guarantee should be signed with the director General of health Services specifying 
that the trainee will successfully complete the training at the time of entry to the training school and will not 
abandon the training course. if she resigns from training, abandons training, or terminates her training in 
accordance with paragraph 9.3 above or fails to serve in the relevant position for a period of 10 years after 
appointment, the Ministry of health should be refunded the allowance paid to her during the training period. 
if not, legal action will be taken as per the agreement to recover the said amount.
10. Terms of employment :
 10.1. at the completion of the training, the government is not obligated to award permanent appointments. 
however, the candidates shall be deemed for appointing to a post in class iii of the post concerned based 
on the merit obtained at the final examination of the training to fill the vacancies remaining after making 
the transfers of senior officers, according to the priority list of vacancies prepared based on the vacancies 
exist as at the date of completion of the training. candidates selected are subject to appointment to serve 
in any part of Sri Lanka based on existing vacancies.
 10.2. Where appointment is given at the completion of the training program, salaries shall be paid in accordance 
with the provisions of circular No. 03/2016 of the Public administration.
 10.3. Applicants should carefully and accurately fill the particulars of education and other qualifications in the 
application. If the above certificates are proved to be fraudulent after recruitment to the training or after 
appointment, action will be taken to refer the case to the criminal investigation department for taking 
legal action / to cancel the appointment, to dismiss her from the training / post, and to enter her name 
into the blacklist of those who are not permitted to be reemployed in the Public Service after taking legal 
action against her. action will be taken to recover the allowance paid to her during the training period, 
expenses incurred by the Government, and the amount of the agreement and Surety Bond.
 10.4. Selected candidates will have to appear for a medical examination within the first month of training to 
verify that they are physically and mentally fit to study the relevant course and serve in any part of the 
island, and candidates who appear to be unfit at the medical examination will not be able to continue in 
the course.
 10.5. all persons selected as above shall be subjected to provisions of the Establishments code of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, rules, regulations and orders imposed by the Public Service commission 
regarding the Public Service, provisions of the service minutes, financial Regulations, circulars and 
instructions of the Government and orders imposed and amendments made thereto from time to time.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
34
 10.6. this Ministry is not obligated to provide the candidates who are recruited for training with accommodation 
facilities in training schools. if so, it would charge the appraised room rent, water and electricity bills.
 10.7. y ou do not have the right during the training process to participate in trade union activities or private 
practice. and if at the completion of the training, an appointment is granted to the post concerned, those 
appointed to a position not approved for private practice do not have the right to engage in private 
practice. Legal action will be taken if it is found to have done so.
 10.8. if there is a concern with recruiting for training or any matter covered or not covered by this Gazette 
notification, the decision of the Secretary of Health will be final. The text in Sinhala will prevail in the 
event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil and English versions.
 dr. S. h. 
munaSinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Ministry of health.
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
21st december, 2020,
01-28
–––––––––––––––––––––––
EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR OffICERS IN GRADE III Of
SRI LANkA TEChNOLOGICAL SERvICE - 2018(I) 2021
  
it is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved service minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service, the above 
mentioned examination will be held by the commissioner General of Examinations, in colombo, in the month of april 2021.
1. (i) this examination shall be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations and candidates shall be 
bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by him in respect of conducting the examination and issuing the results. the 
candidates shall be subjected to a punishment imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations, if such rules are 
violated by them.
(ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at the beginning of this gazette notification.
2. The specimen application for admission to this examination is published at the end of this notification. Applicants 
are required to prepare their applications in accordance with the specimen form and officers of Sri Lanka Technological 
Service in the public service of the central government should forward their applications through the respective head 
of Department and officers of Sri Lanka Technological Service in the provincial public service should forward their 
applications through the Secretary of Public Service commission in the Provincial council where they serve, by registered 
post to reach “the commissioner General of Examinations, organizations and foreign Examination Branch, department 
of Examinations, P.o. Box 1503, colombo’’ on or before 08th february 2021. “Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers 
in Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service - 2018(I) (2021)’’ should be clearly indicated on the top left corner of the 
envelope containing the application. applications received after the closing date of application shall be rejected.
03. Identity: candidates should prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for 
each subject they offer. for this purpose any of the following documents shall be accepted.
(a) the National identity card
(b) Valid Passport
(c) Valid Sri Lankan driving License

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
35
candidates should enter the examination hall without 
covering their face and ears in order to prove their identity. 
further, any candidate who refuses to assist for proving his/ 
her identity shall not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. the candidates should remain in the examination hall 
from the time of entering up to leaving the examination hall 
without covering face and ears enabling the invigilators to 
identify the candidate.
4. Application :
 (i) applicati on should be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen application in a paper of size 
a4 using both sides. No. 01 to 06 should appear 
on the first page whilst the rest should appear on 
other pages. applications could be typed, but they 
should be completed correctly and legibly by the 
candidate in his/her own handwriting and in the 
language medium in which the applicants sit for 
this examination.
 (ii)  When the application form is prepared, the title of 
the examination appearing in the specimen should 
be indicated in English Language as well, on both 
Sinhala and tamil application forms. applications 
which are incomplete and not prepared in 
accordance with e specimen form will be rejected 
without any notice. it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form 
perfected by him/her self complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice and it 
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
completed application form.
 (iii) The officers appearing for one subject or both 
subjects of this examination for the first time need 
not pay examination fees. however, for subsequent 
sittings, a fee of Rs.500/= should be paid for the 
whole examination and if only one subject is 
offered, a fee of Rs.250/= should be paid. the fee 
can be paid at any post office or sub post office in 
the island to be credited to revenue head 20-03-02-
13 of the commissioner General of Examination 
on or before the closing date of application and the 
receipt obtained thus should be affixed firmly in 
the relevant cage of the application. it would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with 
the candidate. under no circumstance, will the 
fee be refunded nor transferred in respect of other 
examinations.
 (iv) this examination is held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English medium. applicants should select one 
medium relevant to them and they should answer 
the question papers in one and the same language 
selected by them. the medium they applied for is 
not allowed to change at a later occasion.
 (v) The officers, who have been recruited to Grade 
iii of Sri Lanka technological Service as at the 
closing date of applications are allowed to sit for 
the first Efficiency Bar Examination.
 (vi) The officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological 
Service can only sit for the first Efficiency Bar 
Examination and they are not allowed to sit for the 
second Efficiency Bar Examination.
5. (i) on the supposition that only the candidates, who 
have possessed the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette 
have submitted applications, the commissioner General of 
Examinations shall issue admission cards to the applicants, 
who have submitted perfected applications indicating the 
medium of language, examination applied for, signature of 
the applicant and the attestation of the signature, attestation 
of the head of the department along with the receipt of 
payment of the examination fee on or before the closing 
date of examination. A notification will be published in 
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the 
applicants.
if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 
days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify 
the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in 
the advertisement. at the time of calling the department 
of Examinations, the full name of the applicant, address 
and national identity card number and the name of the 
examination should be mentioned and it would be advisable 
to keep the following in hand i.e. photocopies of the 
application form and the receipt of payment of examination 
fee, if relevant, kept at your possession and the receipt of 
registration. in case of applicants outside colombo, a letter 
of request with a fax number to which the admission card 
should be sent and other particulars mentioned above should 
be sent to the department of Examination by fax.
the documents submitted subsequently by the applicants, 
who are unable to fulfill the above requirements, shall not be 
considered.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
36
(ii) the signature of the applicant in the admission 
card for the examination shall have been attested by the 
respective Head of the Institution or any officer authorized 
by him. only the admission cards on which the signature has 
been attested shall be submitted by the officers sitting for 
the examination to the supervisor of the examination. the 
candidates, who fail to produce the admission card, shall not 
be permitted to sit for the examination.
06. 7The officers can sit for the each subject at different 
sittings on their discretion during the period prescribed for 
passing the first Efficiency Bar examination. However, in 
order to secure a pass at least 40% of the marks should be 
obtained in respect of each question paper.
07. Issuance of the Results of the examination.– the results 
of the candidates belonging to provincial public service 
shall be issued to the Secretary of the respective Provincial 
Public Service commission and the results of the candidates 
belonging to public service of the central government shall 
be issued to the Secretary of the Ministry of Public Services, 
Provincial councils and Local Government.
08. Scheme of examinations.– The Efficiency Bar 
Examination for officers in Grade III shall consist of the 
following 02 question papers.
Subject No. (01) - Establishments code and Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service 
commission - (duration 02 hours) 
(100 marks)
Subject No. (02) - financial Regulations - (duration 02 
hours) (100 marks)
Establishments code and Procedural Rules of the Public 
Service commission (Subject No. 01) - Syllabus
this paper shall be based on the following chapters of 
Establishments code and Procedural Rules of the Public 
Service commission.
Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission
chapter Viii  overtime, holidays, holiday Pay &  
 allowances
chapter Xii  Leave
chapter Xiii  Railway Warrants
chapter XiV  t ravel on duty within the island
chapter XiX Government Quarters.
financial Regulations (Subject No. 02) - Syllabus
this paper shall be based on the following chapters of 
financial Regulations, 
 (i)  Chapter I.
  Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue.
  the consolidated fund and Planning and 
Programming of Expenditure, form of 
Presentation of annual Estimates, New 
Proposals,
  Responsibility of preparing estimates of 
expenditure, Variations to Estimates of 
Expenditure ( fR 1 to 68 )
 (ii) Chapter III.
  financial Management and accountability.
  Chief Accounting Officers, Accounting Officers, 
Revenue Officers, Authorization for payment, 
Approval, Certification, Delegation of Authority.
  (fR. 124 to 147)
09. the decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Public 
Services, Provincial councils and Local Government shall 
be the final in respect of any matter not provided for in this 
notification.
10. issuance of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the 
examination has been accepted.
11. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
tamil & English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail as the accurate text.
 j.j.
rathnaSiri,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils and 
 Local Government.
Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils and 
Local Government, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
22nd december, 2020.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
37
(For office use only)
Specimen form of Application
EfficiENcy BaR EXaMiNatioN foR officERS iN GRadE iii of SRi LaNKa 
tEchNoLoGicaL SERVicE- 2018(1) 2021
(An officer is not allowed to submit applications for Grade III and Grade II examinations at one and the same time)
Medium in which you sit for the examination  :
(Sinhala - 2 / tamil - 3 / English - 4)  
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)  
01.  have you been recruited under central government? if not, under which provincial public service ?
 indicate the relevant number in the cage
Public Service No. Public Service No.
central Public 10 Eastern Provincial 05
Western Provincial 01 North Western Provincial 06
central Provincial 02 North central Provincial 07
Southern Provincial 03 uva Provincial 08
North Provincial 04 Sabaragamuwa Provincial 09
02. (a) Name in full : ...........................................................................................................................................................
  (in English block capital letters)
  (e.g.: hERath MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 (b) Name with initials : (indicate the initials at the end of the name) ; .........................................................................
  (in English block capital letters) (eg. GuNaWaRdhaNa, h.M.S.K)
 (c)  Name in full: ............................................................................................................................................................
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
03.  Official Address : (Admissions will be posted to this address) 
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
 (in English block capital letters)
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
 (in Sinhala/ tamil)
04.  Sex :                            (Male - 0 / female - 1) (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05.  National identity card Number : 
06.  Mobile phone number:
07. Subject/Subjects offered: 
 Subject Subject No. 
  .................................... 
  ...................................

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
38
08.  (i) date of Birth :  year :                         Month :                      date :
  (ii) age as at 08.02.2021 : y ears :                        Months :                days :
09.  (i) designation :...........................................................................
  (ii) Service period in Grade iii as at 08.02.2021  :........................................................................... 
10. department to which you belong  :...........................................................................
11. Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee:
  (i) The post office/sub post office at which the payment of examination fee is made  :..............................................
  (ii) Number and date of the receipt  :...........................................................................
  (iii) amount paid: 
Affix the receipt of examination fee here (It would be advisable to keep a copy of the receipt)
i declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above. further, i agree to abide by the rules imposed by the commissioner General of Examination on 
conducting the examination and issuing the results.
  ..........................................,
  Signature of the candidate.
date :.............................
Attestation of Candidate’ s Signature 
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............................................. is persently employed at my office and known to 
me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on  ....................... 2021 and exempted from paying the 
prescribed examination fee/paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the receipt.
date :............................. ......................................................
 Signature of the attesting officer.
Name of the officer attesting:..............................................
Post :..............................................
address :..............................................
(Confirm by the Official Stamp)
Certification of the Head of the Department
i hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 01-11 above are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit 
for the examination and also eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned above.
 ...........................................,
 Signature and designation of head of department.
 (Confirm by the Official Stamp)
date: ...........................
01–75/2
■

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
39
08. (i) date of Birth :  year :                         Month :                      date :
(ii) age as at 08.02.2021 : years :                        Months : days :
09. (i) designation :...........................................................................
(ii) Service period in Grade iii as at 08.02.2021  :...........................................................................
10. department to which you belong  :...........................................................................
11. Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee:
(i) The post office/sub post office at which the payment of examination fee is made :..............................................
(ii) Number and date of the receipt  :...........................................................................
(iii) amount paid:
Affix the receipt of examination fee here (It would be advisable to keep a copy of the receipt)
i declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above. further, i agree to abide by the rules imposed by the commissioner General of Examination on 
conducting the examination and issuing the results.
..........................................,
Signature of the candidate.
date :.............................
Attestation of Candidate’ s Signature 
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............................................. is persently employed at my office and known to 
me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on  ....................... 2021 and exempted from paying the 
prescribed examination fee/paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the receipt.
date :............................. ......................................................
Signature of the attesting officer.
Name of the officer attesting:..............................................
Post :..............................................
address :..............................................
(Confirm by the Official Stamp)
Certification of the Head of the Department
i hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 01-11 above are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit 
for the examination and also eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned above.
...........................................,
Signature and designation of head of department.
(Confirm by the Official Stamp)
date:...........................
01–75/2
■
EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR OffICERS 
IN GRADE II Of SRI LANkA TEChNOLOGICAL 
SERvICE - 2018(I) 2021
it is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved 
service minute of Sri Lanka technological Service, the above 
mentioned examinations will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, in colombo, in the month of april 
2021.
01. (i) this examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and candidates 
will be bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by 
him in respect of conducting the examination and issuing 
the results. the candidates will be subjected to a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations, if 
such rules are violated by them.
(ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately 
at the beginning of this Gazette Notification.
02. the specimen application for admission to this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
applicants are required to prepare their applications in 
accordance with the specimen form and officers of Sri Lanka 
technological Service in the public service of the central 
government should forward their applications through the 
respective Head of Department and of
ficers of Sri Lanka 
technological Service in the provincial public service 
should forward 
their applications through the Secretary of 
PSc in the provincial council where they serve, by registered 
post 
to reach the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organizations and foreign Examination Branch, department 
of Examinations, P.o. Box 1503, colombo on or before 08lh 
february 2021. 
“Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers 
in Grade ii of Sri Lanka technological Service- 2018 (i) 
(2021)” should be clearly indicated on the top left comer 
of the envelope containing the application. applications 
received after the closing date of application will be rejected.
03. Identity: candidates should prove their identity  
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose any 
of the following documents shall be accepted.
(a) the National identity card
(b) Valid Passport
(c) Valid Sri Lankan driving License
candidates should enter the examination hall without 
covering their face and ears in order to prove their identity. 
further, any candidate who refuses to assist for proving his/ 
her identity shall not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. the candidates should remain in the examination hall 
from the time of entering up to leaving the examination hall 
without covering face and ears enabling the invigilators to 
identify the candidate.
04. Application :
(i)
applications should be prepared in a paper of size a4
using both sides. No. 01 to 06 should appear on the first page 
whilst the rest should appear on other pages. applications 
could be typed but they should be completed correctly and 
legibly by the candidate in his/her own handwriting and in 
the language medium in which the applicants sit for this 
examination.
(ii) When the application form is prepared, the title of the
examination appearing in the  specimen should be indicated 
in English Language as well, on both Sinhala and 
tamil 
application forms. applications which are incomplete and 
not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be 
rejected without any notice. 
it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/her self complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice and it would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the completed application form.
(iii)
The officers appearing for one subject or both
subjects of this examination for the first time need not 
pay examination fees. 
however, for subsequent sittings, a 
fee of Rs.500/= should be paid for the whole examination 
and if only one subject is offered, a fee of Rs.250/= should 
be paid. The fee can be paid at any post office or sub post 
office in the Island to be credited to revenue head 20-03-
02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examination on
or before the closing date of application and the receipt
obtained thus should be affixed firmly in the relevant cage of
the application. 
it would be advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt with the candidate. under no circumstance,
will the fee be refunded nor transferred in respect of other
examinations.
(iv)
this examination is held in Sinhala, tamil and
English mediu m. applicants should select one medium 
relevant to them and they should answer the question papers 
in one and the same language selected by them. the medium 
they applied for is not allowed to change at a later occasion.
(v) The officers, who have been promoted to Grade II of
Sri Lanka technological Service as at the closing date of 
applications, are allowed to sit for the second Efficiency Bar 
Examination.

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
40
(iv) The officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service cannot apply for the second Efficiency Bar 
Examination.
05. (i) On the supposition that only the candidates who have possessed the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette 
have submitted applications, the commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to the applicants 
who have submitted perfected applications indicating the medium of language, examination applied for, signature of the 
applicant and the attestation of the signature, attestation of the head of the department along with the receipt of payment of 
the examination fee on or before the closing date of examination. A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to the applicants.
if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify 
the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. At the time of calling the Department of 
Examinations, the full name of the applicant, address and national identity card number and the name of the examination 
should be mentioned and it would be advisable to keep the following in hand i.e. photocopies of the application form and 
the receipt of payment of examination fee, if relevant, kept at your possession and the receipt of registration. in case of 
applicants outside colombo, a letter of request with a fax number to which the admission card should be sent and other 
particulars mentioned above should be sent to the department of Examination by fax.
The documents submitted subsequently by the applicants, who are unable to fulfill the above requirements, shall 
not be considered.
(ii) the signature of the applicant in the admission card for the examination shall have been attested by the respective 
Head of the Institution or any officer authorized by him. Only the admission cards on which the signature has been attested 
shall be submitted by the officers sitting for the examination to the supervisor of the examination. The candidates, who fail 
to produce the admission card, shall not be permitted to sit for the examination.
06. The officers can sit for the each subject at different sittings on their discretion during the period prescribed 
for passing the second Efficiency Bar examination. However, in order to secure a pass at least 40% of the marks should be 
obtained in respect of each question paper.
07. Issuance of the results of the examination : the results of the candidates belonging to provincial public service 
shall be issued to the Secretary of the respective Provincial Public Service commission and the results of the candidates 
belonging to public service of the central government shall be issued to the Secretary of the Ministry of Public Services, 
Provincial councils and Local Government.
08. Scheme of examinations : The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II shall consist of the following 
02 question papers.
Subject No (03) - Establishments code (duration 02 hours) (100 marks)
Subject No (04) - financial Regulations - (duration 02 hours) (100 marks)  
Establishments code (Subject No. 03) - Syllabus
this paper will be based on the following chapters of Establishments.
chapter XV  t ravel abroad for study, training or on duty.
chapter XVi  holiday travel.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
41
chapter XXiii Special concessions and conditions regarding
 Officers suffering from certain types of illnesses.
chapter XXiV  Salary Loans and advances.
chapter XXV  concessions to members of trade unions.
chapter XXVii  channels of communication.
chapter XXViii  administrative procedures.
Chapter XXX  Right of Government over its officers.
chapter XXXiii  Legal advice and legal actions.
chapter XLVii  General conduct and discipline.
chapter XLViii Rules of disciplinary procedure.
financial Regulations (SubiectNo. 04) - Syllabus
this paper will be based on the following chapters of financial Regulations.
(1)  chapter Vi.
 custody of Public Money etc., imprests and Bank accounts.
 Security and custody of Public etc. ,counterfoil Books, Boards of Survey on cash Stamps etc., imprests, 
Bank accounts (fR. 315 to 396)
(2)  chapter Xiii.
 Supplies, Works and Services.
 Procurement and Contracts, Supplies, Custody and Verification of Stores, Surplus and unserviceable 
articles (fR. 685 to 775)
09. the decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils and Local Government will be 
the final in respect of any matter not provided for in this notification.
10. issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the 
examination has been accepted.
11. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil & English texts of this Gazette notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail as the accurate text.
 j.j.
rathnaSiri,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils and 
 Local Government.
Ministry of Public Services, Provincial councils and 
Local Government, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
22nd december, 2020.

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
42
(For office use only)
Specimen form of Application
EfficiENcy BaR EXaMiNatioN foR officERS iN GRadE ii of SRi LaNKa 
tEchNoLoGicaL SERVicE- 2018(1) 2021
(An officer is not allowed to submit applications for Grade III and Grade II examinations at one and the same time)
Medium in which you sit for the examination  :
(Sinhala - 2 / tamil - 3 / English - 4)  
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)  
01.  have you been recruited under central government? if not, under which provincial public service ?
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Public Service No. Public Service No.
central Public 10 Eastern Provincial 05
Western Provincial 01 North Western Provincial 06
central Provincial 02 North central Provincial 07
Southern Provincial 03 uva Provincial 08
North Provincial 04 Sabaragamuwa Provincial 09
02. (a) Name in full : ...........................................................................................................................................................
  (in English block capital letters)
  (e.g.: hERath MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 (d) Name with initials : (indicate the initials at the end of the name) ; .........................................................................
  (in English block capital letters) (eg. GuNaWaRdhaNa, h.M.S.K)
 (c)  Name in full: ............................................................................................................................................................
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
03.  Official Address : (Admissions will be posted to this address) 
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
 (in English block capital letters)
 ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
 (in Sinhala/ tamil)
04.  Sex :                            (Male - 0 / female - 1) (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05.  National identity card Number : 
06.  Mobile Phone Number:
07. Subject/Subjects offered: 
 Subject Subject No. 
  .................................... 
  ...................................

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
43
08.  (i) date of Birth :  year :                         Month :                      date :
  (ii) age as at 08.02.2021 : y ears :                        Months :                days :
09.  (i) designation :...........................................................................
  (ii) Service period in Grade ii as at 08.02.2021  :........................................................................... 
10. department to which you belong  :...........................................................................
11. Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee:
  (i) The post office/sub post office at which the payment of examination fee is made  :..............................................
  (ii) Number and date of the receipt  :...........................................................................
  (iii) amount paid: 
Affix the receipt of examination fee here (It would be advisable to keep a copy of the receipt)
i declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above. further, i agree to abide by the rules imposed by the commissioner General of Examination on 
conducting the examination and issuing the results.
  ..........................................,
  Signature of the candidate.
date :.............................
Attestation of Candidate’ s Signature 
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............................................. is persently employed at my office and known to 
me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on  ....................... 2021 and exempted from paying the 
prescribed examination fee/paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the receipt.
date :............................. ......................................................
 Signature of the officer attesting.
Name of the officer attesting:..............................................
Post :..............................................
address :..............................................
(Confirm by the Official Stamp)
Certification of the Head of the Department
i hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 01-11 above are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit 
for the examination and also eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned above.
 ...........................................,
 Signature and designation of head of department.
 (Confirm by the Official Stamp)
date: ...........................
01–75/1

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
44
fIRST EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR ThE OffICERS Of SRI LANkA EDuCATION
ADmINISTRATIvE SERvICE - 2020
it is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service 
will be held on april of 2021.
02. the Syllabus and other provisions relating to this examination have been published in the Gazette Extra 
ordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1928/28 and dated 21.08.2015. the Syllabus and 
other provisions are given below for the convenience of candidates.
 
03. examination Procedure :
Paper Time Total marks Pass mark
i. General administration 03 hours 100 40
ii. financial Regulations 03 hours 100 40
iii. Education law, administration and Supervision 03 hours 100 40
04. examination Authority : commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Syllabus of the examination :
Name of the Paper Syllabus
i. General administration (a) the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and its 
previous constitutions in 1972 and 1947
• declaration on child Rights
• human Rights act
• Bribery and corruption act
(b) Office and Field Organization and Methods
the Establishments code and other Government Regulations
chapters
i, ii, iii,V ,Vi,Vii, iX, X, Xi, XVi,XXV ,XXVi,XXVii, XXiX, XXXi, 
XXXii,XXXiii,XLVii, XLViii of the Establishment code
(c) Procedural rules of the Public Service commission
ii. financial Regulations (a) the financial Regulations of the Government - (Expect chapter 1)
(b) the Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure of the current year, e.g. their 
arrangement; the head of Revenue, finance and appropriation acts.
(c) Ordinances and other Legislation relating to Specific Accounts dealt with in 
Education Officers.
iii. Education Law, 
administrative and 
Supervision
(a) Education Law
■ Education ordinance No.31 of 1939
■ amendment ordinanceNo.26 of 1947
■ amendment act No.05 of 1951
■ amendment act No.43 of 1953
■ code of Regulations for Government Schools

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
45
Name of the Paper Syllabus
■ assisted Schools and training colleges act, No. 05 of 1960 (Special 
Provisions) 
■ assisted Schools and training colleges act No.08 of 1961 
(Supplementary Provisions)
■ Education act No 35 of 1973 (change of designations)
■ the assisted schools and training colleges act No. 65 of l981 (Special 
Provisions)
■ National institute of Education act, No.28 of 1985
■ Public Examinations act No 25
■ National colleges of Education act No. 30 of 1986
■ National Education commission Reports (Within three preceding years to 
the examination)
■ facilities and Services fees
■ circulars related to past pupils’ associations and school development 
societies
 
(b) Education Administration
1.
i. Ministry of Education
ii. organization and functions of the Ministry of Education and the 
departmental institutions under the Ministry including district 
department.
iii. Educational Planning developments at National and Regional 
levels: aims and objectives, methods (including school mapping), 
implementation etc.
2. School management and school community relations 
3. Education Management information Systems (EMiS)
4. Special Education Programs, Non formal Education, School Based 
Management .. ..
 
(c) Supervision
■ Scheme for school supervision and criteria used in evaluation of teacher 
performance
■ School Based assessments
■ Self-evaluation programs in schools
■ School supervisions by Zonal Education Offices, Provincial  
Education departments and Ministry of Education.
■ Validation of internal evaluations by external teams:  
(candidates are advised to be thorough with the circulars,  
manuals and other publications issued by the Ministry of 
Education)
NB - all 3 papers consist of McQ and Structured type Questions.
 

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
46
06. An officer is allowed to appear the subjects relevant to first efficiency bar examination at one sitting or in several 
sittings separately.
07. Language medium of the examination :
 (i) Examination would be held in Sinhala, tamil and English languages,
 (ii) candidates may appear the examination in anyone language of their  preference,  
 (iii) a  candidate can answer in the language medium, of the competitive examination he/she .passed 
to enter the public service or if there was no competitive examination, language medium of the 
examination through which he/she was qualified to enter the public service.
08. if it revealed that a candidate has appeared the examination in a language medium for which he/she is not 
entitled, his/her candidature shall be cancelled. Moreover, he/she shall not be allowed to change the language  medium 
applied for the examination later.
  
09. application should be prepared and submitted by using both sides of a4 size paper in conformity with the 
specimen from given below. Item 01 to 06 should appear on the first page and the remaining items should appear on second 
page. in Sinhala applications, the name of the examination should be written in English in addition to Sinhala and in tamil 
applications the name of the examination should be written in English in addition to tamil. Relevant information in the 
application should be clearly written in candidate’s own handwriting. applications which are not in conformity with the 
specimen form and those which are incomplete will be rejected without notification. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the application with the candidate. candidates should make sure if the duly completed application is in conformity with the 
specimen from attached herein and the applications that are not in conformity with the attached specimen shall be rejected.
  
10. exam Results :
 I. The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations shall be the final on conducting examination 
and releasing results.
 ii. commissioner General of Examinations shall submit the results of all candidates appeared to the 
examination to the Secretary, Ministry of Education.
11. applications should be forwarded under registered cover through relevant department heads, addressed to 
the commissioner General of Examinations, organization (institutional and foreign Examinations) Branch, department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka P.o. Box-1503, colombo to be received on or before 29.01.2021 Name of the examination should 
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. any application received after the closing date shall be rejected.
12. admissions shall be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations for those applicants, who have 
submitted duly completed applications on or before the closing date of applications, with the signature of applicant, certified 
by the head of department along with the payment receipt obtained for relevant examination fees, if it is required to pay 
examination fees. Immediately after the issuance of admission cards to applicants a newspaper and a web notification to that 
effect shall be published by the department of Examinations. if an applicant does not receive the admission card within 02/ 
03 days of the said newspaper notice, it should be notified with following details to the Department of Examinations as per 
the instructions given in the newspaper notice. With such requests, it would be advisable to attach a certified copy of the 
application, the registration receipt and a fax number for sending the admission card in case of the applicant is a resident 
outside colombo. a copy of the said letter of request should be faxed to the department of Examinations on fax No.  011-
2784232.
13. Complaints of those candidates, who fail to fulfill the said requirements in Para 12 above shall not be considered 
for inquiry.

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
47
14. at the examination hall it is the responsibility of the candidates to produce valid evidence in proof of their 
identity. the following documents for identify are accepted.
 (i)  National identity card,
 (ii) Valid Passport,
 (iii) Valid SriLankan driving license.
candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face and both ears so that their 
identity could be easily verified. If any candidate refuses to let his/her identity verified, such candidates shall not 
be allowed to enter the examination hall. Moreover, once entering into the examination hall all candidates should remain 
without covering their face and both ears so that invigilators could identify them.
15. fess for examination will be charged as follows. the relevant examination fee should be paid at any Post 
Office/ sub post office to be credited to revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt 
obtained for the payment from the district /divisional Secretariat should be pasted in the relevant box of the application 
from.(it is advisable to retain a copy of the receipt with you)
 (a) first sitting(fees won’t be levied for the whole examination or part of it)
 (b) thereafter, for each sitting
  for the whole examination  Rs. 1200.00  
  for one subject Rs.   600.00
16. (i) issuance of an admission card should not be considered as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the 
qualifications to appear for the examination.
 (ii) all candidates are subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination. candidates who violate such rules and regulations shall be subject to the punishments given 
by the commissioner General of Examinations. Moreover, the candidates should adhere to prevailing 
quarantine laws and regulations of the country.
17. In a case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification arises, the Sinhala 
text shall be considered the final. 
18. The right of making decisions regarding any matter, which has not been covered by this notification, is reserved 
by the Secretary, the Ministry of Education.
 Prof. k. kapila c. k. perera, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education. 
Ministry of Education,
"Isurupaya"
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla,
21st december, 2020.

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
48
aPPLicatioN foRM
(For office use only)
fiRSt EfficiENcy BaR EXaMiNatioN foR officERS of thE SRi LaNKa 
EducatioN adMiNiStRatiVE - SERVicE - 2020
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha ks,OdÍka i`oyd jk m<uqjk ld¾hlaIu;d lvbï úNd.h - 2020
(to be forwarded to commissioner General of the Examinations, Sri Lanka department of Examinations, Pelawatta, 
Battaramulla by registered post though the head of the department)
 Language medium for the examination.  Sinhala  - 2
  tamil  - 3 
  English  - 4
   (relevant number to be written within the cage)
 
 01.  i. Name in full (in English block capital) :
    E.g. hENaGE doN ShiRaL GayaNtha  GuNaSEKaRa
     ............................................................................................................................................................................... 
   ...............................................................................................................................................................................
   II  Name indicating last name first and initials of the other names (In English block capital )
    E.g. GuNaSEKaRa  h.d.S.G
     ...............................................................................................................................................................................
   iii Name in full (in Sinhala / tamil) -
     ...............................................................................................................................................................................
     ...............................................................................................................................................................................
 02. address :
 i. address to which the admission of the examination of the Examination should be sent (in English block capital) 
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
 ii. Official Address (in Sinhala / Tamil) : ...................................................................................................................
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
 iii. Private address (in Sinhala / tamil) : ....................................................................................................................
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
 03. National identity card No. : 
 04. Sex :  Male - 0
     female -1
     (relevant number to be written within the cage)
 05. Mobile phone No. :
 06. Subjects offered with subject number as indicated in para 03(a) in the notification to be written clearly.
Subject Subject No:

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
49
 07. date of Birth :   year :                              Month :                       date :
 08. designation :  ...................................................................................................................................................................
 09.  Department / Zonal Education Officers / Divisional Education Office / School : ..........................................................
 10. State whether you have appeared for this examination previously, in whole or in part and if so state year, subjects and 
medium in which answers were written.
     y ear Subject Medium 
     ...................... ...................... ......................
     ...................... ...................... ......................
 11.  details of the receipt :
   (I) Post Office which has paid the examination fee : ..................................................................................................
   (ii) Receipt number and date : .....................................................................................................................................
   (iii) the amount paid :  ..................................................................................................................................................
Paste the receipt received after payment here
(a photo copy to be retained by the candidate) only if relevant
 12.  i hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true and correct and that i am entitled to sit this examination 
in the medium indicate in the application. i also agree to abide by all the rules and regulation of the examination. 
i also declare that i will be subject to the rules and regulation to be imposed relating to this examination by the 
commissioner General Examination.
date :.............................. ...........................................,
     Signature of candidate.
commissioner General of Examination 
Submitted 
i certify that the candidate whose particulars appear as above is eligible to sit examination and that he/she is entitled 
to sit in the language medium indicated by him/her in the application. I mention further that the receipt for payment is affixed 
above (*).  
date :.............................. ...........................................,
     Signature and designation of the head of 
     Department and official frank.
(*) To be deleted when payment of fees is not required.
01–02

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
50
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'01'01
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2021
51
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
thE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2021
JANuARy 01.01.2021 f riday — 18.12.2020 f riday 12 noon
08.01.2021 f riday –– 24.12.2020 t hursday 12 noon
15.01.2021 f riday –– 01.01.2021 f riday 12 noon
22.01.2021 f riday –– 08.01.2021 f riday 12 noon
29.01.2021 f riday –– 15.01.2021 f riday 12 noon
 fE bRuARy 05.02.2021 f riday — 22.01.2021 f riday 12 noon
12.02.2021 f riday –– 29.01.2021 f riday 12 noon
19.02.2021 –– 05.02.2021 f riday 12 noon
25.02.2021 
thursday 
–– 12.02.2021 f riday 12 noon
mARCh 05.03.2021 f riday — 19.02.2021 t hursday 12 noon
12.03.2021 f riday –– 25.02.2021 f riday 12 noon
19.03.2021 f riday –– 05.03.2021 f riday 12 noon
26.03.2021 f riday –– 12.03.2021 f riday 12 noon
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st january, 2021.
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
friday 