

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
PAGE 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 160
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2"048- 2017 fkdjeïn¾ ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'11'30                                                                                                      
No. 2,048- THURSDAY , NOVEMBER  30,  2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  22nd  December  2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th December, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
159 - B 81230-353 (2017/11)
N. B.-  (i)  Part III  of the  Gazette No. 2047 of  24.11.2017 was  not  Published. 
Note .-    Securities Exchange Bill  was published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri 
Lanka of November 17, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'30
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2017
160
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/44837.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: CPC/LC/
LD/4/1/29/236.     
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND  
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby noti ﬁ ed that for the Commercial purpose,  
National Water  supply and Drainage Board has   requested 
on lease a  State land containing in extent about  0.0127  
Hectare  out  of  extent marked  of  Lot  No. 616 in Plan  No. 
F. V . P. 251 Supplement  19 and   situated in the  village  of 
Alugolla  which   belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division of  
Diyankaduwa coming  within  the area of authority of  Naula   
Divisional Secretariat in the  District of  Matale. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Lot No. 257 ;
On the East by : Lot No. 256 ;
On the  South by :  Lot No. 256 ;
On the West by : Lot No. 256. 
The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other Government approved conditions 
: - 
 (a)  Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( 21.06.2017 
on wards );
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 4% of the  Market 
value of the  land  as per  valuation of the  chief valuer 
for  the  year 2017. This amount of the lease must 
be quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the 
amount  as  a result of the  revision will be not  less 
than  50% of the amount that just preceded.  
Premium .- Treble of the  annual rent of the  lease  ; 
 ( b) This lessees must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 ( c) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose other 
than  for  the  Commercial purpose  ;
 ( d) This lease  must also  be subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  and  imposed by the  Divisional 
Secretary and  by other  institutions;  
 (e)  The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (f)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the   lease ;
 (g)  Permission will not  be given for any  other sub -  
leasing transferring  to  accomplish the  purpose of 
this  lease Bond  until the  expiry of 05 years from  
21.06.2017  ;
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which this Notice is published  
in the  Gazette to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  N
UWANI SUDUSINGHA, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura",   
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
30th November,  2017.
11-1405 
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/53655.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: EP/28/LB/LS/Tri/
KU/79.     
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND  
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notiﬁ ed that for the Commercial purpose pf ,  Mr. 
Aathambawa Alla Pichchai  has   requested on lease a  State 
land containing in extent about  02 Acres out  of  extent marked 
part of Lot No. A as depicted  in the  Tracing  No. PLC/EP/28/
SUR/2015/78 situated in the  village  of Salappayaru with  
belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division  of Kuburupidiya 
coming within  the  area  of authority  of Kuchchaveli  
Divisional Secretariat in the  District of Trincomalee. 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'30
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2017 161
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Path ;
On the East by : Path ;
On the  South by :  State Land ;
On the West by : State Land. 
The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other Government approved conditions 
: - 
 (a)  Terms  of the Lease .– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( from 
20.10.2017 on wards );
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– In the instances where 
the  assessed  value of the  land  in the  year 2017 is 
less   than  ﬁ ve   million  rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000) 2%  
    of  the market value of the  land  in the said year,   
  as  per  the valuation of the  chief valuer. In  the  
  instances  where the  assessed value  of the  land   
  in  the  effective year of the   lease in the  more  than   
  ﬁ ve  million  rupees  (Rs, 5,000,000)  4%  of the    
  market value of the   land  in the   said  year as a  
    per  valuation of the   chief  valuer.  The  amount  of  
  the lease must  be  revised  in the   every  ﬁ ve  
   years  and   the  revision  shall add  20%  to the   
  amount  that  just  preceded.   
Premium .- Not levied   ; 
 ( b) The lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 ( c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than  for  the  purpose of  Commercial purpose  ;
 ( d) This lesse  must also  be subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  and  imposed by the  Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping  committee/Board of Investment of 
Sri Lanka  and  by other  institutions;  
 (e)  The buildings constructed and constuction  must be 
maintained in a proper state of repair.
 (f)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the   lease ;
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of  05 years  ;
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which this  Notice is published 
in the Gazette to the effect that this land must not be given on 
lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  A. K. N. S
EWWANDI AMARASEKARA, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land Secretariat,
No. 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
30th November,  2017.
11-1406