

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
635
635
wxl 1"650 - 2010 wfm%a,a ui 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'04'16
No. 1,650 – FRIDAY , APRIL 16, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 638
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 643
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd April, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th April,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II and IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 1,649 of 09.04.2010 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
636
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
637
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
638
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
MANNAR  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 14th May, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
28th March, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post Address to which
Secretary’s for which applications should
Division application is called be sent
Mannar Mannar Town Post of Registrar of  Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Addl.
of Manthai South Division and Marriages Registrar General,
General of Mannar Town Division District Secretariat,
Mannar
04-431
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer  Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force in the following branches.
(a) Administrative Legal Branch - (Male/Female)
(b) Air Field Construction Branch - (Male)

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
639
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the professional qualifications given below :
(a) Administrative Legal Branch  :
Chief Legal Officer :
Attorney-at-Law with minimum of 10 years experience.
* The selected candidate will be commissioned in the rank of Wing Commander in keeping with his/her qualifications and
experience.
(b) Air Field Construction Branch :
Civil Engineering Officer :
BSc Degree in Civil Engineering or NDT in Civil Engineering or equivalent qualifications.
Mechanical Engineering Officer :
BSc Degree in Mechanical Engineering or NDT in Mechanical Engineering or equivalent qualifications.
Electrical Engineering Officers :
BSc Degree in Electrical Engineering or NDT in Electrical Engineering or equivalent qualifications.
Quantity Surveying Officer :
BSc Degree in Quantity Surveying or equivalent qualifications.
* Selected candidates will be commissioend in the rank of Pilot Officer, Flying Officer or Flight Lieutenant in keeping with
their qualifications and experience.
3. Other entry requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Civil Status : Married/Unmarried.
(c) Age :–
(1) Administrative Legal Branch : not more than 40 years as at 25th June, 2010.
(2) Air Field Construction Branch : not more than 35 years as at 25th June, 2010.
(d) Height : Male - 5'5" and above
Female - 5'4" and above
(e) Weight : BMI =
Weight (kg) < 25
Height (m)2
(f) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(g) Vision colour standard : CP2
(h) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (with or without spectacles).
4. Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force
be considered, even though he/she may not be within the requisite age or height requirement provided he/she possess the requisi te
academic and professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due cosniderations will be given to current outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisio ns in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force in the Pilot Officer. Flying Officer, Flight
Lieutenant rank (Air Field Construction Branch) and Wing Commander rank (Administrative Legal Branch) as applicable in keeping with
their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at any
time during training, the Officer is reported on by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his
control. he will be liable to have his commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action in accordance with the Sri Lanka
Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
640
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published
in Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, "Every Officer
shall hold his appointment during hte President's pleasure". However an officer has no right to resign his commission unilatera lly, but
under provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any Bond/Agreem ent
envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions of Section 11 of
the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the Air Force Pensions and
Gratuities Code.
12. All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
13. A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single Officer's ration allowance and batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment
Code. Married Officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled to a rental allowance as stated in para 15(b)(16) .
15. (a) Pay applicable for Commissioned Officers shall be as follows :
Pilot Officer - Rs. 229,200 p. a. (fixed)
Flying Officer - Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Wing Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 - Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060 - 18 x 12,600 - Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Serivce Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 5,250 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for those serving in operational areas.
(5) Special hard allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100 will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim Allowance for Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 9,839.70 per month (if permitted to live out).
(10) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for officer, spouse and children).
(12) An additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes to travel
from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(13) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(14) Free medical facilities (including for families if applicable).
(15) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(16) Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation of a government married quarter Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
16. Pensions/Gratuities. – Payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per Widows
and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicants own hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages of the
application should be completed neatly with as much details as possible. Applications should be addressed to "Chief
Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda" so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 30th April,
2010 under registered cover. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked "Application for Commission

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
641
in the ........... Branch" Applications received after the closing date and not in accordance with the requirements of this
notification and not in registered post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their applications
through their Heads of Department/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate to the
effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
(2) Certificates of the highest academic and professional qualifications obtained ;
(3) Certificates of character from at least two responsible persons who are personally acquainted with the applicant ;
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting etc. ;
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made in the application.
* Note.– Originals of these certificates should be produced only if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection.
19. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates who fulfil the above conditions only. Candidates so
selected from the Preliminary Interview will be required to undergo a medical test as may be prescribed by the
Commander of the Air Force. The final selection will then be made after an interview appointed by the Ministry of
Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing of the place, time and date of such interviews. No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he is to produce his National Identity Card isued by the
Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air
Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or
attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
W. D. R. M. J. G
OONETILEKE,
Air Chief Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force, P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION  FOR  COMMISSION  IN  THE  SRI  LANKA
REGULAR  AIR  FORCE IN  THE ............... BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full Name (as per the National Identity Card) :–––––––––––.
3. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Branch applied :–––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
642
8. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
9. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
10. Height : –––––––'  –––––––––"
11. District :–––––––––––.
12. Electorate :–––––––––––.
13. G. S. Division :–––––––––––.
14. Telephone number :–––––––––––.
15. Civil Status :–––––––––––.
16. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications obtained :
Name of School/University Type of examination Year of examination Subjects passed (including grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional Qualifications
Other
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University : (if applicable) :
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From                            To
18. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present address
Father
Mother
19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
20. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and st andards/
levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :––––––– –––.
22. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :–––––––––––.
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
25. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank, Nation al
Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :––––––.
26. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
I have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates wh o are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
04–379

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
643
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT,  SETTLEMENT  AND  RANA VIRU  WELFARE
Sri Lanka Survey Department
EXAMINATION FOR THE ISSUE OF SURVEYOR GENERAL'S CERTIFICA TE AS
AUTHORIZED DRAUGHTSMAN – 2010
THE examination for the issue of Surveyor General's certificate to practice as an Authorized Draughtsman will be held in Colombo. The
examination will be in two parts :
Part I – Preparation of Co-ordinate Sheet.
Part II – Plan work.
2. Part I of the examination will be held on 19th June, 2010 and Part II on 21st and 22nd August, 2010. Candidates who fail
Part I will not be allowed to sit for Part II. Candidates should pass both Part I and Part II at the same examination to qualify for the award
of the Surveyor General's Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman.
3. Candidates are required to satisfy me that :–
(a) They can prepare a co-ordinate sheet from field notes and co-ordinate a survey traverse ;
(b) They can plot a plan accurately from field notes, both by protractor and from Co-ordinates and compute extents
correctly.
4. Applications for the examination must be prepared as per specimen below and sent under registered post to "Senior
Superintendent of Surveys (Examinations), Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa" accompanied by a fee of Rs. 300. Payment
by cash may be made to the Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa or by Money orders, should be made payable to the "Senior
Deputy Survey General (Survey Training Institute)" and post office Diyatalawa. Attach the original receipt or the original mone y order.
(Please do not paste the receipt or money order to the application). Remittance by stamps and cheques will not be accepted. The envelope
should be labeled as "Examination for the issue of Surveyor General's Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman – 2010" on the top left hand
corner.
5. Examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
6. Applications closing on 25th May, 2010. Applications will not be accepted after that.
7. Drawing papers and co-ordinate sheets will be supplied at the examination hall. However, candidates should bring their own
drawing instruments, mathematical tables for computation of co-ordinates and all other material they require. Use of non-progra mmable
scientific calculators will be allowed with the permission of the supervisor at the examination hall.
8. (i) Every candidate should prove his/her identity to the satisfactions of the Supervisor by the production of any one of the
following documents :–
(a) An Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of registration of persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
(c) Any certificate, license or other document which embodies a photograph of the holder and issued within three years of
the date of examination on the authority of a Government Department.
(ii) No candidate for the examination shall be entitled to be examined unless he/she furnished proof of his/her identity required
by paragraph 8(i).
9. This examination will be held under the metric system.
S. M. W. F
ERNANDO,
Surveyor General.
Surveyor General's Office,
P. O. Box 506, Colombo 05,
31st March, 2010.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
644
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
SRI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
EXAMINATION FOR THE ISSUE OF SURVEYOR GENERAL'S CERTIFICATE AS AUTHORIZED DRAUGHTSMAN – 2010
Index No. :
(For office use)
a. (i) Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––.
(ii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
b. Sex :––––––––––.
c. Designation :––––––––––.
d. Official Address :––––––––––.
e. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
f. Date of birth :––––––––––.
g. Educational qualifications :––––––––––.
h. Medium through which the candidate proposed to sit this examination : Sinhala/Tamil/English :––––––––––.
i. Fees paid Rs. :––––––––––.
Money Order/Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Office of issue :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
(Attach the original receipt if paid to Institute of Surveying and Mapping. Diyatalawa or the original money order if paid by money
order.)
I do hereby certify that above details are true and correct.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
04–389
–––––––––––––
SRI   LANKA  IMMIGRATION   AND   EMIGRATION   DEPARTMENT
Limited/Open Competitive Examination - 2010 for Recruitment to the Posts of Authorized Officers
APPLICATIONS are invited from the persons with the following qualifications for the posts of Authorized Officers in the Departm ent
of Immigration and Emigration. Recruitment will be done on the results of the competitive examination and out of the vacancies to be
filled, 60% will be recruited on the results of an open competitive examination whereas the remaining 40% will be recruited on the result
of a limited competitive examination, conducted for the State/Provincial Public Service employees. 10% of the total number of vacancies
will be reserved for female candidates.
2. Receipt of Applications.– Applications should be prepared by the candidate, following the model application given at the end
of this Gazette Notification using both sides of A4 size paper (21 x 29cm) including sections 1.0 to 5.0 in page one, 6.0 to 12.0 in page
two and the other Sections, in page three and the applications to be filled by the candidate's own hand writing. Applications n on
conformity with the model application would be refused without any notification. (Keeping photocopy of the application could be
useful.) In preparing applications it is compulsory to mention the name of the examination as appears on the top of the examina tion
notification in English in addition to Sinhala language in Sinhala medium applications and Tamil language in Tamil medium applications.
The applications filled in the respective language, should be sent in order to reach to "Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examination Division, Examination Department of Sri Lanka, Pelawatte, Battaramulla,” under registered post on or be fore
17.05.2010.
(a) on the top left-hand corner of the envelope either the words "Application for the post of Authorized Officer - Open
Competitive Examination – 2010" for the open examination or "For the Post of the Authorized Officer – Limited
Competitive Examination – 2010" for the limited examination should be indicated. If it is qualified to apply under both

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
645
streams “only one application” should be submitted, the words "Application for the post of Authorized Officer – Limited
and Open Competitive Examination – 2010" should be mentioned.
(b) candidates who are already in Public Service/Provincial Public Service should be forwarded their applications through
their respective Departments/Institutions.
(c) applications will not be acknowledge. Complains of a loss of Applications and other documents or delaying on the amil
will not be entertained.
(d) applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notifications and received after due date will be rejected.
(e) Applicants should sit for the examination in the language that he/she be qualified.
3.  Identity.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor at the Examination Centre
for every subject they sit and any of the following documents will be accepted as proof of Idnetity.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid Sri Lankan Passport.
4. False information.– If found that a candidate does not posses the required qualifications, his candidature will be cancelled,
before the examination, during the examination or after the examination. If it is revealed that a candidate has knowingly forwa rded false
information or has concealed important information deliberately, he should be dismissed from state service.
5. Salary scale. – The salary scale of as state in the Public Administration Circular 6/2006(iv) –MN5-2006A Rs. 16,720-
10 x 320 - 11 x 365 - 15 x 450 - Rs. 30,685 will be entitled for this postand the salary will be paid based on the provisions of the circular.
Selected candidates should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination before reaching the fourth step of the salary.
6. Examination Fee.– To apply under either a stream, examination fee will be Rs. 300 and if apply under both streams the fee
will be 350. This examination fee can be made thorugh any of the District Secretariat or a Divisional Secretariat in order to be credited to
the revenue Head No. 4000-20-03-90-00. The receipt should be affixed in the relevant cage of the application and the number of the
receipt, date of the payment and the name of the issuing office should be stated in the application. This payment will not be refunded for
any reason. (Keeping a photo copy of the receipt will be useful).
7. Age limit.– Not less than 18 years and more than 45 years at the date which the application close. The maximum age limit will
not apply to persons already in Public Service/Provincial Public Service.
Note.– An applicant's physical suitability should be as follows. A male applicant's height should be a minimum of 5 feet 04
inches (162.5cm) and the chest should be a minimum of 32 inches (81.25cm). The height of a female applicant should be
a minimum 05 feet 02 inches (156cm.).
8. Conditions of Service :
(i) The post is permanent and pensonalbe. An officer appointed as a new entrance contribution should be made Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Fund with a percentage of the salary, as determinate by the government at different time. The
appointment will be on probation for a period of three years. Procedural Regulation issued by the Public Service
Commission by the Extraordinary Gazette Notification  No. 1589/30 and dated 20.02.2009, will apply.
(ii) If a permanent officer already in the Public Service/Provincial Service who and has been confirmed in his/her appointment,
is selected, he/she will be appointed subjected to a testing period of one year.
(iii) Selected candidates should be acquired second language proficiency as per P. A. Circulars No. 7/2007 and 7/2007(i)
within a period of five (05) years from the date of appointment. Such officers who are unable to acquire Second
Language proficiency are subjected to determent of the increment.
(iv) Selected candidates should work at night in the airport and sea ports when required.
9. Educational and other qualification :
(i) Open Examination – A degree from a recognized University with minimum a credit pass for English Language at the
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination or minimum a "B" pass for English language at the N. C. G. E. Examination.
(ii) Limited Examination. – As per the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv) MN1 Rs. 13120, public servants
drawing an monthly salary of Rs. 13,120 or above with 10 years of service are eligible to apply for this post.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
646
(i) According to the qualifications stipulated for public servants, applicants should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) in
six (06) subjects, obtained in not more than two sittings with Arithmetic/Mathematics/Commercial Arithmetic/
English language ; or
(ii) Have passed the N. C. G . E. Examination with "B" passes for English Language, Mathematics and the first
language or have passed equivalent or higher examination.
10. Every candidate should be prepared to produce originals of the following documents when call upon to do so :
(a) Certificate of Birth ;
(b) Certificate of the higher examination passed ;
(c) Two certificates of character obtained recently.
11. Candidates should secure minimum of 40% marks to the consideration for interview (in each subject). No marks will be
given at the interview and those who have fulfilled required qualifications and scored highest marks will be selected at the en d of an
interview conducted by a competent board, approval by the Public Service Commission :
(i) Examinations will be conducted at Colombo, Sri Lanka in Sinhala, Tamil and English Language and the date for the
examination will be noticed by the Commissioner General of Examination. The medium which applied for the examination
would not be changed.
(ii) The admission cards would be posted to the address mentioned in the application by the candidate. All candidates are
bounded to obey the rules and regulations ordered by the Commissioner General of Examination and the candidates
who violate any of these rules is liable to any punishment at the discretion by the Commissioner General of Examination.
(iii) In the ev ent of an inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts, the Sinhala Text shall prevail.
(iv) Issuing an Admission Card should not be considered as the candidate is qualified to sit the examination.
12. Method of testing. – Both limited and open competitive examinations will consists of three written papers :
(a) Open Examination :
(i) Intelligence Test and General Knowledge – One hour – 100 marks.
* Questions are designed to test the logical reasoning skills of the candidates and general knowledge on politics and
economy of Sri Lanka as well as internal policies and developments in science and technology fields worldwide,
with both multiple choice and/or short questions.
(ii) English language  – Two hour – 100 marks.
* Questions are designed to test the comprehension, written and communication skills of the candidates.
(iii) Computer skills – One hour – 100 marks.
* Will test the candidates' knowledge of basic computer programmes like MS Word and MS Excel.
(b) Limited Examination :
Comprehension and General Knowledge – One hour – 100 marks.
* Questions are designed to test the comprehension, precis-writing skills and analyzing abilities of the candidates and
the general knowledge on politics and economy of Sri Lanka as well as internal policies and developments in science
and technology fields worldwide, with both multiple choice and/or short questions.
(i) English Language - Two hours - 100 marks
Questions are designed to test the comprehension, written and communication skills of the candidates.
(ii) Computer Skills - One hour - 100 marks
Will test the candidates' knowledge of basic computer programmes like MS Word and MS Excel.
13. A News Paper notification will be published by the Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, immediately admission cards
issued to the candidates. Those candidates who are not in receipt of their Admission cards 2 or 3 days within the notification it should be
informed to the Department of Examinations. It would be more effective make this information along with a copy of the applicati on, a
certified copy of the receipt of the admission fee, register post receipt, a fax number to send the admission if the area is ou t of Colombo
and your requesting letter.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
647
14. The Controller General of Immigration and Emigration will have the sole authority to decide on the number of vacancies to
be filled and the date of recruitment. The Controller General of Immigration and Emigration will also have the sole authority to cancel the
appointments of one or more candidates who have passed both the qualifying examination and the interview.
15. It should be noted that the general conditions stipulated for State services appoitments and the instruction and the
regulations applicable to candidates sitting for examinations in Part I(IIA) of this Gazette Notification will apply to this examination.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Dr. U. WIDANAPATHIRANA,
Secretary.
Ministry of Internal Administration,
No. 51, Sir Ernest de Silva Mawatha,
Colombo 7,
2010.
SRI LANKA IMMIGRA TION AND EMIGRA TION DEPARTMENT
L
IMITED/OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION 2010 FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF AUTHORIZED OFFICERS
(Office use only)
Examination Medium :
Examination applied for Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4
Limited – 1/Open – 2
Open and limited both – 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage above)
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials (initials at the end) :––––––––––.
(In block letters)
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––.
(In block letters)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil Language)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
2.0 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In block letters - the admission will be posted to this address)
2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil Language)
2.2 Official Address :––––––––––.
(In block letters)
2.3 Telephone No. :––––––––––.
(Personnel/Official)
2.4 Sex : Male – 0, Female – 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage above)
3.0 Race :
1 - Sinhala, 2 - Tamil, 3 - Indian Tamil, 4 - Muslim, 5 - Burger
(Write the relevant number in the cage above)
4.0 Weather married or single : Married – 1, Unmarried – 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage above)
5.0 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
648
Age on 17.05.2010 :
Years : Months : Days :
6.0 The language stream you did the examination to obtain your qualification for this post :–––––––––.
7.0 Educational Qualifications :
Name of Examination Y ear Subject with grades
1. 1. 5.
2. 2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
8.0 Physical requirements :
(i) Height :.................c. m.
(ii) Circumference of chest : .............. c. m.
9.0 Details of the present post :
(i) Designation :–––––––––.
(ii) Department/Ministry :–––––––––.
(iii) Date of the first appointment :–––––––––.
(iv) The date you were made permanent :–––––––––.
(v) Salary scale :–––––––––.
(vi) Present annual salary :–––––––––.
10.0 Have you been found guilty by a court of law ? :–––––––––.
If so, give details :–––––––––.
11.0 Have you been dismissed from the Public Service ? :–––––––––.
12.0 Payment of examination fees :
Affix the receipt of the payment here firmly. Keep a copy of the receipt with you
Please Note.– The receipt obtained after payment of examination fees, according the Gazette notification, should be affixed in
the above cage firmly.
(a) Receipt No. :–––––––––.
(b) The office payment was made :–––––––––.
(c) Date :–––––––––.
(d) Amount : Rs. –––––––––.
13.0 I hereby certify to the best of my knowledge and belief all the information given in this application are true and correct and I have
affixed the cash receipt No. ........... dated .......... being the payment of the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations of examination and if I found to be ineligible for this examination during or after the examination, I accept any decision
taken to cancel my candidature. Further I declare that I am subject to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of examinations in relation to conduct of the examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2010
649
14.0 (i) Attestation of the signature of applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. .................. who forwards this application is me personally known and he/she has been made the
relevant examination fee and the cash receipt is affixed in the application signed this document on ............. 2008 before m e.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––.
Name of the Attester :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(ii) Certificate by the Head of Department (Only for the candidates sitting the limited competitive examination) :
My No. :–––––––––.
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................................... is employed as ..................... in the ................. ..... And the information
given by him/her in this application is true and correct. In the event he/she is selected to this post he/she can/cannot be rel eased.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Official Stamp :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
04–450
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.