

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of May 29, 2015
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 01. 06. 2015)
BUDGETARY RELIEF ALLOWANCE OF WORKERS
A
BILL
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Ajith Kumara, M. P.
for Galle District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 11.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
to provide for the payment of a Budgetary Relief Allowance
by employers to certain categories of workers for the purposes of
implementing the Budget Proposal in respect of private sector salaries
and wages to the effect that the monthly wage of a worker be increased by a
sum of Rs. 2,500 included in the statement made in the Parliament of
Sri Lanka on 29.01.2015 by the Minister of Finance of Democratic
Socialist  Republic  of  Sri Lanka  in  presenting  an  interim  Budget, and to
provide for matters incidental thereto.
 (Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers 1
5
10
15
2—PL 009063—325  (05/2015)
A BILL TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT OF A BUDGERATY RELIEF
ALLOWANCE BY EMPLOYERS TO CERTAIN CATEGORIES OF WORKERS
FOR THE PURPOSES OF IMPLEMENTING THE BUDGET PROPOSAL IN
RESPECT OF PRIVATE SECTOR SALARIES AND WAGES TO THE EFFECT
THAT THE MONTHLY WAGE OF A WORKER BE INCREASED BY A SUM OF
RS. 2,500 INCLUDED IN THE STATEMENT MADE IN THE PARLIAMENT
OF SRI LANKA ON 29.01.2015 BY THE MINISTER OF FINANCE OF
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA IN PRESENTING AN
INTERIM BUDGET, AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1.  This Act may be cited as the Budgetary Relief
Allowance of Workers  Act, No.      of 2015 and provisions of
this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to have come into
operation on (hereinafter referred to as “relevant date”)
May 1, 2015.
2.  (1) The Commissioner shall be the Competent
Authority for the purposes of this Act.
(2) The Competent Authority may delegate to any officer
of the Department of Labour any power function or duty
conferred or imposed on or assigned to, such authority by
this Act.
3. (1) With effect from May 1, 2015 every employer in
any industry, service or trade all workers employed and each
earning a wage of not more than forty thousand rupees per
month shall in respect of each month pay to every worker
employed by him, a Budgetary Relief Allowance (hereinafter
referred to as “the allowance”), of not less than rupees two
thousand and five hundred (2,500) as herein stated from the
relevant date.
Short  title.
Competent
Authority.
Budgetary
Relief
Allowance.20

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
5
10
15
20
25
That not withstanding —
(a) If the employer is in any one of tea, rubber, cocoa,
cardemom, black pepper, coconut, cinnamon, or
tobacco cultivation and production, the
Budgetary Relief Allowance to be paid to each
worker shall be calculated at twenty (20) percent
of the wage paid according to the number of days
in a month the worker was employed or rupees
two thousand and five hundred and whichever is
less and irrespective of the number of workers
employed also,
(b) When the employer is a co-operative society, the
Budgetary Relief Allowance shall be paid
irrespective of the number of workers employed
and in the case of casual or temporary workers the
allowance be paid proportionately according to
the number of days employed.
(2) When a workers is on contract on a piece rate basis
or on day basis, the allowance that shall be paid under this
Act, will have to be calculated according to the wage that
has to be paid on piece rate or day basis and will not be less
than twenty (20) percent not exceed rupees two thousand
and five hundred per month.
(3) Not withstanding any of the aforementioned
provisions, employees working in.
(a) An organisation that under Section 16( a) of the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 4 of 1963 is being
accepted as a charitable organisation, and
(b) Where an employer employees less than six (06)
workers and the employer is bound by a collective
agreement mentioned in Section 10(2) of the
Industrial Dispute Act as stipulated in the Gazette
of 10 September, 1971 bearing No 14,975 the
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers 3
5
10
15
20
employer is required to pay wages and other cost
of living allowances, the employer is not required
to pay the Budgetary Relief Allowance to such
employees.
4. (a) Not withstanding any reference in any written
law, collective agreement or written or verbal
expressed or complied agreement on
employment, provisions of this Act shall
remain valid and in force . Also when a
contradiction, incompatibility or invalidity
occurs between this Act and any other law or
agreement provisions of this Act shall remain
valid and in force to the extent of the
incompatibility with any other law.
(b) Where an increase of not less than rupees two
thousand and five hundred (2,500) per month
to the basic salary is made during the period
of one year from the date this Act becomes
effective, on a collective agreement or any
other agreement between the employer and
the employee, this allowance shall not be
applicable to such employees from the day
such increase is provided.
(c) Where an increase less than rupees two
thousand and five hundred (2,500) per month
to the basic salary is made during the period
of one year from the date this Act becomes
effective on a collective agreement or any
other agreement between the employer and
the employee, the balance increase shall be
paid as an allowance to such employees from
the day this Act becomes effective.
(d) where an increase to the basic salary as afore
mentioned is envisaged during the period of
one year from the date this Act becomes
25
30
35

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
effective, this allowance of rupees two
thousand and five hundred shall be paid in
full to such employees until the date such
salary increase is provided.
(e)  the allowance as prescribed in this Act shall
be paid during the entire period of service
and will be in excess of the legally decided
minimum wage due to the employees and
shall also be paid in excess of the minimum
wage to all employees recruited after the date
this Act is made effective.
5. Every worker unskilled or not who has been employed
in any industry, trade or service by any employer for so long
as he continues to be a worker of such employer, continue to
be so employed on such terms and conditions relating to
wages or salary, allowances or other payments in money by
whatsoever name or designation and not covered under
Section 5 of the Public Securities Act, as are not less
favourable than those which such worker had enjoyed on
the day immediately prior to the date of the coming into
operation of this Act shall be paid the allowance as stipulated
in this Act.
6.  (1) The employer of a worker in any trade shall from
and after the date of the coming into operation of this Act,
maintain and keep in the premises in which that trade is
carried on, a register setting out
—
(a) the name of each worker employed by him;
(b) the class of work performed by each worker
employed by him;
(c) the amount paid to each such worker as allowance
in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers 5
(2) Every register maintained under subsection (1), shall
be preserved for a period of four years by the employer and
every employer shall when required by the Commissioner
produce such register for inspection or furnish a true copy
thereof or permit a copy of such to be made.
7. The competent authority shall have power
—
(a) to enter and inspect at all reasonable hours of the
day or night at any place in which workers in any
trade are employed, for the purpose of examining
any register or for ascertaining whether the
provisions of this Act are being complied with; or
(b) where no such register is avaliable for examination
when he inspects such place or at the office of such
authority ; or
(c) to take copies of the whole or any part of any such
register; or
(d) to question any person whom he finds in such place
whom he has reasonable cause to believe is an
employer of workers employed in any trade carried
on in such place; or
(e) to direct, in writing, any employer of workers
employed in any trade to furnish him on or before a
specified date, with—
(i) a return, relating to all workers employed
by any such employer in any specified
class or description of such workers and
containing such other particulars as he may
require for the purpose of this Act;
(ii) such information or explanation as he may
require in respect of particulars stated in
any return funished by any such employer;
or
5
10
15
20
25
30
Powers
vested with
competent
authority.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
5
10
15
20
25
(iii) a true copy of the whole or any part of any
register maintained by any such employer.
8. On or after the relevant date —
(a) any who fails in the exerise of his powers
under section 6; or
(b) refuses to produce any register or furnish any
information which such authority requires him
to produce or furnish such authority in the
exercise of the powers conferred by Section
7; or
(c) hinders or obstructs such authority in the
exercise of the powers conferred by section 7;
or
(d) makes or causes to be made in any register,
any false statement or makes or causes of
knowingly permits to be produced, any
registed containing a false statement to such
authority, knowing the same to be false; or
(e) furnishes any information to such authority
acting under the powers conferred by Section
7, knowing the same to be false; or
(f) fails to comply with any directions given by
such aurhority under section 7, or who, when
called upon to furnish a return under that
section, knowingly, makes or furnishes, or
causes to be made or furnished, a return
containing any false statement, shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding
Violations &
Punishments.

<!-- page 8 -->

Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers 7
5
10
15
20
25
30
one hundred thousand rupees or to
inprisonment of either descriprion for a term
not exceding six months or to both such fine
and imprisonment.
 9. Every employer of any workers as per Section 03
who is entitled to any payment or allowance under a written
law is considered his salary shall pay such payment or
allowance within the period within which such employer is
required by any written law to pay the wages or salary of
such worker.
10. (1) Any employer who fails to pay a sum required to
be paid to a worker under this Act shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction before a Magistrate
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Upon conviction by the Magistrate of an employer
for failure to pay any sum required to be paid to a worker
under this Act, the Court shall, in addition to the penalty
imposed for such offence order such employer to pay such
sum to such worker within a period specified in the Order
and if the sum is not so paid, such sum shall be recovered by
Order of Court, as if it were a fine imposed by the Court and
paid to such worker.
11. (1) The Minister may make regulation in respect of
matters for which regulations are authorized or required to
be made under this Act.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
Budgetary
Relief
Allowance to
be part of
salary under
this Act.
Non
payment of
entitled
allowance
and recovery
of non paid
allowance.
regulation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
5
10
15
20
25
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval but without prejudice to any
previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.
12. The allowance payable to a workers under this Act
shall be deemed for all purposes include—
(a) contributions to Employees’ Provident Fund,
Employees Trust Fund and pension;
(b) annual holiday remuneration;
(c) overtime remuneration;
(d) maternity benefit payment ; and
(e) gratuity;
and shall constitute part of the wages or salary of such
worker. Every employer of any such worker shall pay
such allowance within the period within which such
employer is required by any written law to pay the wages
or salary of such worker.
13. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“collective agreement” shall have the same meaning
as in the Industrial Disputes Act (Chapter 131);
“Commissioner” means the person for the time being
holding the office of Commissioner of Labour
and includes any person for the time being
Interpretations.

<!-- page 10 -->

Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers 9
holding office as a Deputy Commissioner of
Labour or as as Assistant Commissioner of
Labour or as a Labour Officer;
“Co-operation society” means a co-operative society
which is registered or deemed to be registered
under the Co-operative Society Act, No. 05 of
1972;
“Basic salary” means the salary calculated for the
number of working days that makes a period of
one month taking the working day as 08 (eight)
hours per day, leaving out overtime and all other
extra allowances. For a worker paid on piece rate
or time duration, the salary calculated for the
number of working days that makes a period of
one month taking the working day as 08 (eight)
hours per day, leaving out overtime and all other
extra allowance.
“Earned wages” means the definition given to same
in Employees’ Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958
“employer” means any person who on his own behalf
employs, or on whose behalf any other person
employs, any worker in any trade and includes
any person who on behalf of any other person
employs any worker in any trade;
“industry” includes any industry, business,
undertaking Government owned business
undertaking, occupation, profession or calling
carried on, performed or exercised by an employer
or worker, and any branch of, or any function or
process in any trade, but does not include any
industry, business or undertaking which is carried
on by any corporation, board or other body which
was or is established by or under any written law
30
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
where the Government invests share capital in
full and where the Government by way of grant,
loan or otherwise for purpose of conducting
vocational training for the orphaned, deaf, blind,
dumb and for children under probation maintains
a business, industry or trade and where a salary
increase is payable as decided and amended by
the 2015 interim budget.
“worker” means an employee, a person earning a daily
wage, or a person employed in any capacity by
any employer under a contract, written,
expressed or implied to perform any work in any
trade where payment is made for such work and
includes a worker whose salary or wages are
regulated by any written law or otherwise and a
worker employed on a piece-rate basis.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
In the event of
inconsistency,
Sinhala text
to prevail.
15

<!-- page 12 -->

Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers 11
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .