

<!-- page 1 -->

IV^w&^w&^w&^w&^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'05'02
PART IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2018
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV(A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notifications
wxl 2069$20 – 2018 uehs ui 02 jeks nodod – 2018'05'02
No. 2069/20 – WEDNESDAY, MAY 02, 2018
NOTIFICATION  MADE  AS  PER SECTION  40 (1)  OF  PROCEDURAL  RULES  OF
WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, for the acknowledgement of public, hereby notify that the approval of Board of Ministers of Western Province has been
granted for the draft of statute described in the following schedule of this statute of Special provisions of Western provincial
Waste mnagement, under the decision of Board of Ministers No. VI/94/09/-2017-02 (ii) and dated 04.10.2017 and it is scheduled
to be proposed by me for the approval of Wstern provincial Council.
ISURA DEV APRIYA
Chief Minister of Western Province
and Minister of Local Government, Economic promotion,
Power and Energy, Environmental Affairs,
Water Supply and Drainage
and tourist affairs.
Chief  Minister's Office,
Srawasthi Mandiraya,
Colombo 07,
26th, April 2018.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – PG004025 –  12 (2018/05)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV^w&^w&^w&^w&^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'05'02
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2018
Short title and
effective date
Disposing waste
is an offence.
Special Statute of Waste Management of Western Province.
This statute is regarding the waste management by Western Province Waste Management
Authority which is incorporated under the Waste management Statute of the Western Province
No. 01 of 2007, to empower the strategies that are being implemented by Local Government
Authorities, to facilitate the regulations to the correct and suitable disposal of waste that are
on the streets and in houses that are to be collected by the Local Government Authorities, to
determine a price and a standard to the acceptance of waste except that are one the streets
and in houses that are to be collected by the Local Government Authorities, to determine the
charge for the waste management strategies that are being implemented in the Western
Province by the Waste management Authority of the Western Province.
Be it enacted by the Western provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka as follows:
1. THIS Statute may be cited as Special Statute of Waste management of Western Province
and will be effective from the date of approval by the Governor.
2. (1) It is the duty of a Local Government Authority to receive waste, to take
every action to dispose the received waste and to facilitate precautionary
regulations by implementing the power granted by the relevant written law.
(2) The charges for receiving waste collected from streets, non-waste that are
collected from houses for disposal, for maintaining private waste management
projects and regarding the garbage generated by commercial and business
purposes must be conducted by Local Government Authority under the rules
determined by this statue.
3. (1) Anything to the contrary in any other written law or in this statute and it is
an offence to transport waste from one place to another by hand, a bicycle, a
tricycle, a cart or an animal, keeping or disposing such waste on a street or a
 public place discregarding the waste management programme or without taking
precautionary actions stated in this statute or any written law operating by a
Local Government Authority and in case of an officer of a Local Government
Authority, an officer of the Authority by the power granted by the Director of
Waste Management Authority of Western Province, a court officer or a police
officer complained about a person as such, he shall be guilty of an offence and
shall on conviction after summary trial before a magistrate, be liable to an
imprisonment for a term not less than three months not exceeding six or to a fine
of not less than Rs. 25,000 not exceeding Rs. 50,000 or both.
(2) It is offence to transport and carry waste from one place to another by a motor
vehicle or a boat. Keeping or disposing such waste on a street or a public place
disregarding the waste management programme or precautionary actions stated
in this statute or any written law implemented by a Local Government authority
and in case of an officer of a Local Government Authority, an officer of the
Authority by the power granted by the Director of Waste Management authority
of  Western Province, a court officer or a police officer complained as such a
person, he shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction aftersummary
trial before a Magistrate, be liable to an imprisonment for a term not less than
three months not exceeding six months or to a fine not less than
Rs. 25,000 not exceeding than Rs. 50,000 or both.

<!-- page 3 -->

IV^w&^w&^w&^w&^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'05'02
PART IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2018
3A
Deciding
strategies by the
Authority
(3) In the event of a particular person being found subsequnetly guilty under this
section, every instrument that were being used to do the offence, vehicles and
tools will be confiscated by an order of the magistrete other than from a particular
punishment for that offence.
Provided that, the owner of the intruments, vehicles and the tools used for the
offence being a third party, if the owner is able to prove to the content of the
court that he had taken every precautionary to prevent the instruments, vehicles
and tools from using them for the offence or that they are being used without his
consent, then it should not be ordered to be confiscated.
(4) The regulations made under this sentence should not be applied for any person
that disposes waste by a license issued by the Director of the Waste management
Authority of the Western Province, by an officer named by him, a Local
Government Authority or a person that disposes waste on behalf of a Local
Government Authority.
(5) The fine charged under this sentence must be debited accordingly to the fund of
Waste  Management Authority or relevant Local Government Authority.
4. (1) Anything to the contrary in any other written law, it is the duty of the Waste
Management Authority to implement the waste management strategies through
Local Government Authorities and provide facilities to them that are being decided
by the Authority.
(2) The Waste Management Authority of Western Province can charge a fee for
implementing waste management strategies with in Western Province, for the
cost of provinding the reauired facilities for Local Government Authorities, and
for maintaining a cleaner enviornment in particular places with in the administrative
limits of each Local Government Authority, according to the criterion and the
measurements made under the rules of this statute and the charged money should
be collected to the fund of the Authority under the objectives of this sentences.
5. (1) The Minister can make rules to the objectives of this statute coming in to action,
to implement the powers, to implement every fact that is stated in the statute.
(2) Every rule made by the Minister must be published in the gazette and should
come into effect from the date of published or from a future date stated in the
gazette.
(3) The rules made by the Minister must be delivered for the approval of Provincial
Council immediately after being published in the gazette. The Provincial Council
must approve those rules and published the approval by a gazette.
If they are not being approved, it must also be announced by a gazette and it must be
considered that the actions taken under those rules have effect without prejudice.
6.  In this statue, unless the context otherwise requires,
''Minister" means the Minister in charge of Local Government of Wastern Province;
Power of
making rules
Interpretation

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV^w&^w&^w&^w&^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'05'02
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2018
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of an
inconsistency
             "Authorized Officer" means any officer who is vested on power by the Director of
waste Management Authority of Western Province or an officer who is being
authorized with power by an executive chief of a Local Government Authority;
''Local Government Authority" means a Pradeshiya Sabha, an Urban Council, a
Municipal Council, or any authority that act on behalf of it;
             "Police Officer" means Sub Inspector of Police or an officer in a higher Designation;
''A Vehicle"in the meaning of Motor Traffic act;
"Waste" means unimportant things such as recrement, oversized recrement, ashes,
swamps, mud, oil, human and animal shit, acidic and basics, animal carcasses and
urban waste that are harmful to the existence and the health of human beings;
"A Street" is a path, a public road, a private road that two or more parties have the
right to access, a drain related to any way or a road, a railway, a tunnel, a stream, a lake
or a river.
"A Boat" is a mechanical or a non-mechanical instrument which can be used on water
to be used for rowing on water.
7.  In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhal and Tamil statements of this
statute, the Sinhala statement shall prevail.
05 - 468
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.