

<!-- page 1 -->

1A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
w;s úfYI
wxl 2213$6 - 2021 fmnrjdß ui 01 jeks i÷od - 2021'02'01 
No. 2213/6 -  moNdAy februAry  01,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  5293 — 50  (02/2021)
wESTERN   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
The Notification made under Section 154 of the Urban Councils Ordinance read with Section 2 of the Provincial 
Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
i, roshan Goonetileke, the Governor of  Western Province, by virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 
154 of urban Councils ordinance read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act,  
No. 12 of 1989, do hereby declare that by Law relating to Procedure for the Conduct of business at meetings of the urban 
Council, drafted by the Horana urban Council under Section 153 of the urban Councils ordinance read with Section 157 
of the same ordinance has received my assent.
Roshan Goonetileke,
 rWP & bAr VSV uSP
PHd  fim (Sri Lanka) NdC PSC
 marshal of the Sri Lanka Air force,
Governor,
Western Province.
At the Office of the Governor of Western Province,
Western Provincial Council building,
No. 204, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
on 27th January, 2021.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
2A
by-LAWS reLAtiNG to tHe ProCedure for tHe CoNduCt of buSiNeSS At urbAN 
CouNCiL meetiNGS
 1. these by-laws shall be enforced to regularize the procedure for conducting business at meetings 
and Committee meetings of urban Council.
 2. this by-law may be cited as the by-law relating to Procedure for the Conduct of business at 
meetings of Horana urban Council.
 3. the urban Council shall, subjected to the provisions stated in the initial law, be held on every 
calendar month on a day and time pre-determined by it at the office of the Urban Council. If that 
day falls on a Public Holiday, then such meeting shall be convened on the next available working 
day.
 4. A notice for convening an ordinary meeting of urban Council, along with the agenda relevant 
to such meeting shall be handed over by the Chairman to every member of urban Council prior 
to four days of such meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays. in the event of 
failure to personally hand over the notice specified under this Section, leaving it at the place where 
the member usually resides at shall be considered as a proper handing over of the notice.
  However, where the Council has decided that convening of the Council and handing over of 
documents should be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address 
confirmed by every member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the 
Secretary, the notice under this Section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant to 
it being forwarded to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time, shall 
be considered as a legal handing over.
 5. A notice for convening a Special meeting of urban Council having included the proposition or 
propositions requiring to be decided at the said Special meeting shall be handed over to every 
member of the Council prior to two days of the date such meeting has been scheduled to. else, 
should be left at the place of residing.
  However, where the Council has decided that convening of the Council and handing over of 
documents should be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address 
confirmed by every member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the 
Secretary, the notice under this Section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant to 
it being forwarded to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time, shall 
be considered as a legal handing over.
 6. (1) the quorum of an ordinary meeting or a Special meeting shall be one- third of the number of 
members holding positions to that date. in every occasion the Chair observes that the Council is 
lacking quorum, or any member draws attention of the Chair to that matter, having suspended 
the affairs of the Council, the Chair shall order the summoning bells to be rung. if the quorum 
is not achieved within 5 minutes of such action being taken, the Council shall be postponed to 
some other time.
  (2) When the whole Council has converted to a Committee of the Whole Council, it shall consist 
of the required quorum and provisions stated in the above Section (1) shall be applicable in the 
same manner in case of occasions where such quorum is absent.
 7. (1) if the quorum of the Council failed to achieve after termination of thirty minutes of its summoning, 
such meeting shall be postponed to whatever time ordered by the Chair.
ordinary meeting.
Special meeting.
Quorum.
Postponement 
due to absence of 
quorum.

<!-- page 3 -->

3A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
  (2) if any meeting postponed by the Chair under this Section lacked quorum to assemble within 24 
hours subsequent to postponement of that meeting, the time of which has been calculated from 
its first postponement, such meeting should be adjourned to another date. The Council adjourned 
thus, shall be assembled again on a date not exceeding 15 days of its adjournment for the agenda 
of the adjourned meeting. the notice for summoning the adjourned meeting shall be handed 
over to all the members or left at their residence three days prior to the scheduled date excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays.
   However, where the Council has decided that convening of the Council and handing over of 
documents should be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address 
confirmed by every member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the 
Secretary, the notice under this Section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant 
to it being forwarded to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time, 
shall be considered as a legal handing over.
 8. An ordinary or Special meeting of Council in quorum may be suspended from time to time according 
to the agreement of Council. except the affairs not attended in the Agenda of such suspended meeting, 
no other affair shall be attended at a suspended meeting. A suspended meeting shall assemble at a 
date not expiring fifteen days from the date of suspension and complete the agenda, wherein the 
notice for summoning such meeting shall be handed over to all the the scheduled three days prior 
to date excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays, else, shall be left at their residence.
  However, where the Council has decided that convening of the Council and handing over of 
documents should be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address 
confirmed by every member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the 
Secretary, the notice under this Section for convening meeting and all the documents relevant to it 
being forwarded to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time, shall 
be considered as a legal handing over.
 9. for all purposes connected with precedence and seniority of members of the Council, the precedence 
order of Chairman, deputy Chairman, successive re-elected members according to the consecutive 
seniority of the party or independent group elected to that Council and when consecutive seniority 
becomes equal, the order stated in the Election Commissioner’s or Returning Officer’s declaration, 
and in the absence of consecutive seniority, precedence order of elections Commissioner’s or 
Returning Officer’s declaration shall be taken into consideration.
 10. (1)  every member including Chairman, deputy Chairman participating in ordinary meeting, Special 
meeting or Committee meeting if male, shall be dressed in his National Costume or european 
Suit and if female, shall be dressed in her National Costume.
  (2) Where there is an accepted official robe for the Chairman, he shall preside dressed in that official 
robe.
  (3) The official robe for the Chairman shall be made in the manner Council decides.
 11. Visitors including electronic and print media reporters shall take up places in the meeting hall 
allocated for each of them. However, on a matter opportune, if decided by the majority of members 
present at the day’s meeting by way of a resolution passed at the Council that removal of them from 
the Chamber would be good for public welfare and the Chair requests for such vacation, they shall 
leave the Chamber.
  Nevertheless, no hindrance shall be caused by this section to officers summoned by the Chairman 
to accomplish duties, to remain in the Chamber.
order of 
Precedence.
Adjournment of
meetings
Visitor’s 
attendance

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
4A
 12. the business of the Council shall be transacted in the following order.
 (a) Confirmation of the minutes of previous Council meeting.
 (b) Announcements made by the Chairman.
 (c) motions on permission of leave.
 (d) Presentation of memorandums, petitions, complaints.
 (e) Questions of which due notice has been given.
 (f) motions of which due notice has been given.
 (g) review on reports of Committee meetings
 (h) reviewing on monthly statements relating to receipts and disbursements of the Council
 (i) matters included into agenda having further decided by the Council.
 13. (1) minutes that include all the proceedings and orders of the Council meeting shall be maintained 
by the Secretary of the urban Council in a record book in the medium Council affairs take place.
  (2) minutes of each calendar month’s meeting shall be included into the Agenda of the successive 
month’s ordinary meeting and along with the notice for convening the said meeting; it shall be 
handed over to all the members as if the convening notice is handed over.
  (3) At the succeeding meeting the question shall be put that the minutes be taken as read and confirmed 
and if there are any corrections to amendments only, having considered such, the minutes shall 
be confirmed and deemed as adopted.
 14. (1)  The Chairman may present notifications relevant to his subject-field relating to matters which 
he thinks important to be brought up into Council’s notice.
  (2)  No opportunity will be there for any member to speak on matters in the notifications made thus 
or debate on matters containing in such statement.
  (3) the statements made by the Chairman under this Section shall comply with the subject of Local 
Government and such statement shall not prejudice any member.
 15. (1)  Any member, when he is unable to participate in Council meetings on justifiable reasons, may 
make a written request to Chairman asking for Permission for Leave by himself or through other 
member.
  (2)  A motion in that regard may be moved by the Chairman or by other member on permission of 
the Chair and Permission for Leave will be granted by the adoption of the motion.
 16. (1)  every memorandum, petition and complaint presented to the Council shall relate to a matter 
relevant to the subject field of the Local Government Authority.
  (2) every memorandum, petition, complaint shall address either the Council or Chairman and should 
be composed in dignified language.
  (3) every memorandum, petition, complaint shall clearly carry the date of signing and personal 
address of the person presenting it. further, it shall be written in legible handwriting and relief 
expected thereby should be mentioned clearly.
  (4) If there are any documents to confirm the matters stated in the memorandum, petition or complaint; 
their certified copies shall be attached to the petition.
order of business.
Adopting the 
minutes
Announcements 
by Chairman
Permission for
Leave.
Presentation of
memorandums, 
petitions, 
complaints

<!-- page 5 -->

5A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
  (5) matters such as the ones pending in a court of law or in any such institution meting out justice, 
or a matter that has already been forwarded for arbitration shall not be presented thus.
  (6) No member may present a memorandum, petition or complaint on his behalf.
  (7) Any member presenting a memorandum, petition or complaint shall limit his speech, to “Hon. 
Chairman, i shall hereby present the memorandum/ petition / complaint made by ..............
residing at No. .......... in relation to the matter of ...........”, and no providence shall be allowed 
for a debate on that matter.
  (8) Whenever a memorandum, petition, complaint is presented by a member, any other member 
may propose it to be read out. However, the reasons as to why the motion should be read out at 
the time of its presentation need to be expressed.
  (9) When a motion has been presented under the above Subsection (8), such memorandum, petition, 
complaint shall be read out by the member who presented it only after it has been seconded 
wherein no member shall speak with regard to that.
 17. (1)  it shall be lawful for a memorandum, petition, complaint presented under Section 16 to be 
forwarded to a suitable committee by the Chairman and decide future action based on a report 
obtained from the said committee, or take measures to examine evidence with regard to a 
complaint requiring appropriate investigation, or take measures to solve the problem when it 
relates to a matter solvable by the Chairman.
  (2)  When the Chairman intends to inquire evidences from any witnesses, it shall be lawful to inform 
the petitioner, complainant by the Chairman to forward to Secretary a list, at least prior to three 
days of the date fixed for examining evidences, containing those witnesses names, places of 
residence, occupations by the petitioner requiring those witnesses.
 18. (1) Questions relating to the affairs of the Council may be asked from the Chairman.
  (2) Having prepared the relevant questions in writing, the member intending to forward the question 
shall handover the questions to Secretary prior to seven days of the date scheduled to hold the 
Council meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays, in order to be included 
into the agenda . else, the motion should have been forwarded to the electronic mail address 
accepted by the Council to forward motions and assigned to members for the same purpose.
  (3)  Questions received by the Secretary shall be included into the agenda in the order they have 
been received.
  (4) Not more than one question shall be accepted to the agenda from a member for one Council 
meeting.
  (5) A written response relevant to each question shall be read out by the Chairman at the meeting.
  (6) A member shall not address the Council on any motion, and even expression of opinion or 
presentation of facts shall not be included.
  (7)  A supplementary question may only be presented by the member who raised the question or any 
other member for the purpose of further explanation of a matter or incident for which a response 
has been given in the Council.
Questions 
presented 
expecting verbal 
responses from 
the Chairman.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
6A
  (8) The right to raise questions in the Council by a member shall be confined to the following limits.
 (a) A question shall be limited to one subject
 (b) unless a name compulsorily required for the clarity in explanation of a problem, no other 
name or statement shall be mentioned in the question.
 (c) An argument, presumed decision, attributed allegation, a phrase detailing unnecessary 
information, or defamatory phrase shall not be included into the question.
 (d) if a question carries a statement, the member raising the question should have been satisfied 
as to the accuracy of the statement.
 (e) Questions under a point of law relating to a matter pending before courts of law shall not 
be raised.
 19. (1)  every motion shall be written and carry the signature  of the member presenting it. unless the 
relevant motion, along with a request for inclusion of it in the agenda has been submitted to 
the Secretary prior to 07 days excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays from the date 
Scheduled for the Council meeting or forwarded to the electronic mail address assigned, relevant 
motions shall not be included into the agenda.
  (2) All the notices received relating to motions shall be date-stamped in the order they were received 
and numbered according to time they were received and documented.
  (3) Prior to including a motion into the agenda it needs to be submitted to the Chairman and if the 
Chairman is in the opinion that the relevant motion is inconsistent with the written law or relates 
to a matter non- authorized by the written law to be decided by the Council, he shall order the 
relevant motion to be not included in the agenda and inform of such non-inclusion to the member 
who presented the motion with reasons for rejection.
  (4) every motion presented shall relate to a matter allowed by the written law to take a relevant 
decision by the Council.
  (5) A motion presented with the intention of repealing any resolution which has been passed within 
the preceding six months to the date the Council is scheduled to meet, or a motion yielding the 
same effect as any motion which has been negated within the preceding six months to the date the 
Council is Scheduled to meet shall not be included into the agenda unless it carries the signatures 
of four other members in addition to the signature of the member presenting the motion and the 
facts of which is mentioned in the heading specifically. Subsequent to transacting proper business 
relating to the said motion, no member shall have power to move a motion similar to that within 
the period of next six months.
  (6) No motion, unless proposed by other member on permission of the member presenting the motion 
and seconded, shall be deemed as submitted for debate.
  (7) Any member may, at the latter part of the debate, having risen from his seat and addressing the 
Chair shall second the relevant motion subject to his right to speech and his right to reach into 
whatever decision relating to the vote-taking on the motion.
  (8) if any member intends to present a motion to the Council of that day relating to compulsory 
matters requiring immediate attention and which has not been informed beforehand, unless such 
motion has been written, signed and submitted along with a request made to the Chairman, the 
Chair shall not allow any such motion to be proposed, if it has not been included into the agenda.
motions of which 
due notice has 
been given.

<!-- page 7 -->

7A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
  (9) every motion relating to recommendations included in the reports of Committees which have 
been tabled at the Council shall be included into the agenda and proposed to the Council by the 
Chairman. 
 20.  Any motion or amendment presented by a member to the Council may be withdrawn by that 
member on the permission of Council. Such permission shall be devoid of a debate.
 21.  A motion withdrawn may be presented again to the agenda of a successive meeting.
 22. (1) A member expecting to present an amendment to a motion shall have prepared the amended 
motion in writing and handed over to the Secretary.
  (2) every amendment shall relate to the motion in discussion at the time of presenting such motion.
  (3) every amendment-motion shall be read out before proposing it to the Council.
  (4) No amendment-motion unless seconded shall be subjected to discussion.
  (5) A member, who has got an amendment properly seconded, shall be allowed consequently to 
speak with regard to that matter.
  (6) When an amendment has been proposed to a motion under discussion and seconded, second or 
subsequent amendments shall not be proposed unless proper action has been taken with regard to 
the first amendment. If an amendment got adopted, the amended-motion shall take the place of 
the initial motion and if there are further amendments, it shall relate to the said amended motion. 
 23. Prior to presenting at the Council a budget document or a supplementary budget document which 
has been prepared by the Chairman under Section 178 of urban Councils ordinance (Chapter 
255), each subject of the draft budget document or supplementary budget document shall be 
considered separately at a combined committee meeting assembled for that purpose.
 24. Considering the matters presented at the Combined Committee meeting, a final budget document 
or a Supplementary budget document prepared by the Chairman shall be presented to the Council 
by the Chairman.
 25.  every subject of a budget document or a supplementary budget document presented to the 
Council should be considered separately and all the subjects or any subject considered thus may 
be amended minimally, rejected or supplemented with any subject by the Council and every 
such amendment, rejection or subject-supplementation shall be executed as an amendment to 
the budget document or supplementary budget document, whereas all the provisions relating to 
amendments in this bylaw shall be applicable therein.
   even so, where all the subjects or any one subject of the budget document or supplementary 
budget document presented by the Chairman will be rejected by the Council, in place of such 
rejected subject or subjects, alternative subjects shall be proposed and passed by the Council in 
conformation to the provisions of the written law.
 26.  to the disagreement of the Chairman, when the majority of the Council enjoying voting rights 
have decided minor amendments, rejections or subject-supplementations to all the subjects or 
any subject of the budget document or supplementary budget document proposed for adoption 
by the Chairman, such budget document or supplementary budget document shall be presented 
again by Chairman at a successive Council meeting for adoption.
Withdrawal of 
motions.
Presenting again 
a motion that has 
been withdrawn.
Amending a 
motion.
Council approval 
relating to budget 
documents.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
8A
 27.  No member may speak at a meeting to any motion or question after it has been fully put by 
the Chairman of the meeting. A motion or question is fully put when the voting has been taken 
thereon.
 28. (1)  the question shall be put by the Chairman of the meeting, and the Council may express its consent 
by a show of hands, else, any member shall call for a division and in that event the votes shall 
be taken by the Secretary asking each member separately according to the order of precedence, 
how he desires to vote, and recording the vote accordingly.
  (2) on any question being put, either in Council, or in Committee of the whole Council, every 
member present shall, unless he declines to vote record his vote either for the eyes or the noes.
  (3) in the event of a member declining to vote, when a division has been called for, the Secretary 
shall enter his name upon the minutes as having declined to vote.
  (4) Unless it has been facilitated to take vote under a secret ballot with regard to a specific appropriate 
matter stated in the written law, vote shall be recorded by asking each member separately with 
regard to every other matter.
      29.(1) Committee reports included in the Agenda and presented along with the agenda may be reviewed 
separately by the ordinary meeting.
  (2)  for the purpose of reviewing the committee reports, Council meeting may convert to a Committee 
of the Whole Council as decided by the Council according to the provisions of the bylaw.
 30. (1) reports on Council’s revenue and expenditure of the preceding month and reports on the progress 
of revenue from January to the previous month, expenditure from January to the previous month 
should be reviewed by Council according to the annual budget document.
  (2)  for business transaction of this Section, the Council may convert to a Committee of the Whole 
Council.
  (3)  monthly statements relating to receipts and payments, progress reports on work and other 
documents specified by Council may be presented to the Council for this purpose.
 31. (1) businesses included into the agenda after having decided by the Council, shall be completed by 
it in the same order they have been included into the agenda.
  (2) Whatever a matter not conforming to the order specified in the agenda of the Council shall not 
be considered by the Council under this Section.
 32. (1) the Chairman shall have an original vote in common with the other members of the urban 
Council and also a casting vote if upon any question an equality of vote results.
  (2) When the urban Council is in a Committee of the Whole Council, as provided under this bylaw, 
the Chairman shall have an original vote in common with the other members and also a casting 
vote if upon any question an equality of vote results.
 33.  it shall be competent for any member, who is in a minority, to record the reasons for his dissent 
from the opinion on of the majority, and such written dissent, if sent to the Secretary, within one 
members 
dissenting.
Committee report 
reviewing.
Cessation of 
debate.
V oting and 
recording of votes
Considering 
revenue and 
expenditure 
reports.
Casting V ote of 
Chairman.

<!-- page 9 -->

9A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
When Chairman
speaks.
irrelevance 
or tedious 
repetition.
week of the meeting in question, shall be entered by the Secretary at the end of his minutes of 
the proceedings.
 34.  unless resolved that the order of the day’s proceedings of the urban Council be otherwise, the 
business shall be discussed in the order specified in the Agenda.
 35. (1) it shall be the duty of the Chairman of a given meeting to preserve order, and his decision on all 
disputes and points of order shall be final.
  (2) Any member of the urban Council deviating from these regulations at a meeting may immediately 
be called to order by the Chairman of the meeting, through his own motion or by any other 
member of the urban Council rising to a point of order.
 36.  When the question of order has been stated, the member who raises it shall resume his seat, and 
no other member except by leave of the Chairman or presiding Councilor of the meeting shall 
speak till the Chairman has decided the question. After which the member who was addressing 
the urban Council or Committee of the urban Council at the time of question was raised shall 
be entitled to proceed with his speech, if he conforms to the Chairman’s ruling or ruling of the 
Committee of the Council. if he does not conform, the Chairman may refuse to allow him to 
proceed with his speech.
 37.  Any member who fails to explain or to retract any objectionable words used by him or to offer 
apologies for the use thereof to the satisfaction of the urban Council may be censured or otherwise 
dealt with as the Urban Council thinks fit.
 38.  When the Chairman of a meeting has expressed his desire to speak, any member then speaking 
shall immediately resume his seat.
 39. (1)  the Chairman of a meeting may name any member who disregards the authority of the Chair, 
or abuses the provisions of these bylaws of the urban Council by persistently and willfully 
obstructing the business of the urban Council, and the Chairman may forthwith put the question 
on a motion being made by any member or from the Chair (no amendment, adjournment or debate 
being allowed) “that such member be suspended from the service of the urban Council”.
  (2) if any such motion be carried and any member be suspended under this section, this suspension 
on the first occasion shall continue for one month, on the second occasion for two months, and 
on the third or subsequent occasion for three months.
  (3) Not more than one member shall be named at the same time, unless several members present 
together have jointly disregarded the authority of the Chair.
  (4)  if any member or members acting jointly who have been suspended under this rule from the 
service of the urban Council, shall refuse at any time during the period of suspension to obey 
the directions of the Chairman of a meeting to withdraw from the precincts of the urban Council 
Chamber, the Chairman may direct such step be taken as are required to enforce his decision.
 40.  t he Chairman of a meeting, after having called attention to the conduct of a member who persists 
in irrelevance or tedious repetition, either of his own arguments or of the arguments used by 
members in debate, may direct the member to discontinue his speech.
 41. (1) t he Chairman of a meeting may order members whose conduct is grossly disorderly to withdraw 
immediately from the urban Council Chamber during the remainder of that day’s sitting and 
may direct such steps to be taken as are required to enforce his order.
order of the day.
Preservation of 
order.
decision on 
questions of order.
members not 
explaining 
or retracting 
procedure.
disorderly 
Conduct.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
10A
  (2)  if on any occasion the Chairman of a meeting deems that his powers under this are inadequate 
he may name such member or members in pursuance of the provisions of Section 39.
 42.  members who are suspended under this rule or are directed to withdraw shall forthwith withdraw 
from the precincts of the Council Chamber.
 43.  An adjournment of the discussion of any question may be moved by a member at any time and if 
seconded, shall be forthwith put to the vote. in the event of a grave disorder arising at a meeting, 
the Chairman of the meeting may, if he thinks it necessary to do so, adjourn the meeting without 
putting the question of adjournment to the urban Council or suspend the meeting for a time to 
be named by him.
 44.  in speaking to any preposition under consideration of the urban Council or a committee of the 
whole Council the following rules shall be strictly observed:-
 (a) every member shall at a meeting except in Committee address his observations to the 
Chairman of the meeting and shall speak standing,
 (b) No member shall be interrupted while he is speaking unless he is speaking out of order.
 (c) When any member concludes his observations he shall resume his seat and any other 
member wishing to address the urban Council may then speak.
 (d) A member shall not read his speech, but he may read extracts from written or printed papers 
in support of his arguments.
 (e) if two members speak or desire to speak at the same time at a meeting the Chairman of 
the meeting shall call on the member who first catches his eye.
 (f) Every member shall confine his observations to the subject under consideration.
 (g) No member shall impute improper motives to any other member.
 (h) All remarks of a personal nature shall be avoided.
 (i) A member shall speak to the question before the urban Council or any amendment proposed 
thereto.
 (j) No member shall speak more than once on any proposition before the urban Council 
except in explanation to order, or when the urban Council is in committee.
 (k) by the indulgence of the urban Council, a member may explain matters of a personal 
nature, although there is no question before the Council, but such matters may not be 
debated and he must confine himself strictly to the vindication of his own conduct.
 (l) the mover of any resolution or motion may reply after all the members present have had 
an opportunity of addressing the urban Council and before the question is put, but he shall 
strictly confine himself to answering previous speakers, and shall not introduce any new 
matter into the debate. the right to reply shall not extend to the mover of an amendment.
rule for members’ 
speaking.
duty to obey 
order of 
suspension or 
withdrawal.
Power to Adjourn.

<!-- page 11 -->

11A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
  45. the urban Council may at any time resolve itself into a Committee of the Whole Council and 
on its resuming the result of its deliberations shall be dealt with by the urban Council.
   it shall be competent for any member at any stage of any discussion in a Committee of the whole  
urban Council to move that the urban Council to resume.
   the question shall be put to the vote by the Chairman of the Committee and, if the motion is 
carried, the urban Council must immediately resume from Committee.
 46. (1)  the urban Council shall appoint such Advisory Committees subject to Advisor Committees  
the provisions stated in the original written law.
  (2) No such Committee shall take any proceedings after the expiration of the period for which it has 
been appointed.
  (3) The Chairman of Urban Council shall be the ex-officio Chairman of a Financial and Policy 
Committee appointed by the urban Council.
  (4) the quorum for the meetings of every such Committee shall be one third of the number of 
members of the committee in office on the date of the meeting. When one-third of such number 
is an integer and fraction, the integer immediately higher to that integer and fraction shall be 
deemed to be one-third for the purpose of this rule.
  (5) in the occasion where a combined meeting is held with the Committee on finance appointed 
by the urban Council, the Chairman of urban Council shall chair the combined meeting and 
convening of a combined meeting should be carried out by the Chairman.
  (6) unless there is a one third of quorum present at a combined committee meeting that comprises 
two committees or more than that and unless one member of each committee in the combined 
meeting has made their presence, no proceedings shall take place at such a combined committee 
meeting.
  (7) in the absence of the Chairman at a meeting of any Committee, the members shall choose one 
of their members to preside, and such member shall for that meeting have all the powers of the 
Chairman.
 (8) When a Committee shall have agreed to a report, the report shall be signed by all the members 
thereof and shall together with the minutes of proceedings, be submitted to the urban Council.
 (9) the electronic and print media shall be excluded from all meetings of Advisory Committees.
 47.  All members shall record their attendance when they attend meetings of Attendance the urban 
Council or Committee, in an Attendance register maintained by the Secretary for this purpose 
and kept in his custody.
 48. unless other interpretation relating to text is required, in this by-law, -
  “Council” means the urban Council of Horana established under the urban Councils ordinance 
(Chapter 255),
Conversion of 
Council into 
Committee of the 
Council.
Advisory 
Committees.
Attendance.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.02.2021
12A
  “Chairman” means the Chairman appointed to urban Council of Horana.
  Advisory Committee” means all the Committees appointed under the urban Councils ordinance 
(Chapter 255)to advice the Council.
 49.  “in case of any inconsistency between Sinhala and english/ tamil texts of this by-law, Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
inconsistency 
among texts.
02-281