

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2213$9 - 2021 fmnrjdß ui 02 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2021'02'02
No. 2213/9  -  Tuesday,  february 02,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1a- PG 5294- 175(02/2021) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L.d.b. 21/78 (xvi)
THE  UNIVERSITIES  ACT,  No.  16  OF  1978
OrdINaNCe made by the university Grants Commission under section 18 read with section 97 of the universities act, 
No. 16 of 1978.
 secretary,
 university Grants Commission.
Colombo,
15th december, 2020.
Ordinance
      1.  This Ordinance may be cited as the universities Pension fund Ordinance, No. 04 of  2020 and shall come 
into force upon publication in the Gazette.
      2. The provisions of the Ordinance shall apply to the regulation, administration and management of the universities 
Pension fund (hereinafter referred to as “Pension fund”) established under section 97 of the act.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2021
2a
MeMbersHIP Of THe PeNsION fuNd
3. (1) an employee of the staff of the Commission or of a Higher educational Institution who holds a permanent 
post and in service as at 1 st september 1999 may opt to contribute to and become a member of the Pension fund, whereas 
membership shall be compulsory for the staff of the Commission or of a Higher educational Institution who are appointed 
to a permanent post after 1st september 1999:
Provided however, the holder of a post (permanent) who does not have at least twenty years of service ahead to his 
age of retirement at the time of appointment to the said post shall not be entitled to become a member of the Pension fund. 
(2) an employee who was in service as at 1st september 1999 and who opted to become a member of the Pension  fund 
shall not be permitted to change his decision at a later date and request membership only in the universities’Provident fund.
(3) a monthly contribution as may be determined by the Commission shall be made from the salary of every member, 
to the Pension fund.
adMINIsTraTION Of THe PeNsION fuNd
4. (1) The secretary of the Commission (hereinafter referred to as the “secretary”) shall be in charge of the regulation, 
administration and management of the Pension fund.
(2) The Secretary may, with the approval of the Commission, either generally or specially authorize any officer of 
the Commission to exercise, perform and discharge any power, duty or function of the secretary under this Ordinance and 
such officer shall exercise, perform and discharge any such power, duty or function subject to the direction and control of 
the secretary.
(3)  The secretary shall open and keep a general account for the Pension fund and a separate account in respect 
of each member of the Pension fund. all contributions to the Pension fund in respect of that member shall be credited to a 
separate account of that member in the Pension fund. The secretary shall have the custody of moneys of the Pension fund.
(4) The supervisory board functioning under the Provident fund Ordinance No. 1 of  2015 established by Government 
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1906/8 of 17.03.2015 shall be responsible for reviewing the activities of the Pension fund 
periodically and advising the Commission on policy matters of the Pension fund. 
 5. (1) There shall be two Investment Committees to the Pension fund, namely-
(a) the Major Investment Committee to deal with the investments determined by the Commission as major 
investments;
(b) the Minor Investment Committee to deal with the investments determined by the Commission as minor 
investments. 
(2) The Major Investment Committee shall consist of the following members-
(a) the Chairman of the Commission;
(b) the secretary;
(c) the Head of the finance department of the Commission;
(d) a representative from the senior Management Committee appointed by the Chairman of the Commission.
(3) The Minor Investment Committee shall consist of the following members-
(a) the Vice Chairman of the Commission;
(b) the secretary;
(c) the Head of the finance department of the Commission.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2021
3a
(4) The financial limits of the major investments and minor investments shall be determined by the Commission 
from time to time, based on the investment policy of the Pension Fund formulated subject to the relevant rules, regulations 
and circulars issued by the General Treasury.
(5) The members of the Investment Committees shall be paid such allowances for attending any meeting of the 
Committees, as may be determined by the Commission. The sum of moneys paid as allowances and other expenditures of 
the Investment Committees shall be paid out of the moneys of the Pension fund.
(6) The Investment Committee shall meet on a regular basis to evaluate the investment proposals and make suitable 
investment decisions or suitable investments in accordance with the investment policy of the Pension fund.
(7) The decision taken by the Major Investment Committee shall be reported to the Supervisory Board once in 
every six months. 
beNefITs Of THe PeNsION fuNd
6. (1) (a) every member, who-
(a)  has served twenty years or more and served till the age of retirement; or
(b) served twenty years or more and retired due to ill health before the age of retirement;
shall be entitled for a monthly pension of a per centum specified in the corresponding entry in Column II of the 
schedule.
(2) (a) The holder of any post other than that of a teacher who could retire at the age of fifty five but opt to continue 
to work till sixty years or retire in between shall be paid on pro-rata basis as decided by the Commission.
(b) Where contributions are not received for a period due to no pay leave or any other reason such period shall be 
reduced from the total service period for the calculation of the pension payable.
(3) dependents of a member who has served twenty years or more at the time of death shall be paid a pension as 
follows:-
(a) fifty per centum (50%) of the pension shall be paid to the widow or widower;
(b) balance fifty per centum (50%) shall be equally divided and paid to the legitimate children until they reach 
18 years of age:
Provided however, where there is a dispute with regard to the beneficiaries,  pension shall be paid in accordance 
with the decision of the court.
(4) The pension payable to a member entitled thereto under this Ordinance shall begin upon the retirement of the 
member or upon the death of such member to the dependents and shall accrue daily and be paid monthly.
(5) The secretary shall ensure that the pensioner or the dependent or dependents as the case may be, are alive and 
entitled to the pension claimed by such pensioner or the dependents.
(6) a pension payable to a minor under this Ordinance shall be credited to a minor’s bank account in a government 
approved bank.          .
(7) The amount and interest lying to the credit of a member who retires, resigns or terminates prior to twenty years 
of service shall be refunded at the point of retirement, resignation or termination of service of the employee.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2021
4a
 (8) In the event of the death of a member who has not completed twenty years of service or death of a member who 
is a bachelor or spinster,the amount and interest lying to the credit of such member shall be paid subject to the provisions 
of Ordinance 7.
NOMINaTIONs
7. (1) a member may nominate a person to whom the money lying to the credit of the member’s account in the 
Pension fund shall be paid upon the death of such member. Where a member who wishes to make a nomination -
(a) is married, he shall nominate jointly or severally his spouse and children;
(b) is not married, he may nominate any person.
(2) a member who does not wish to make a nomination shall declare his intention by specifying in the list of nominees 
that he has no nominees. In such an instance the money shall be distributed in accordance with the applicable law of the country.
8. (1) a nomination shall not be valid or have any effect in law unless the same has been signed by the member in 
the presence of the Head of the Commission or Head of a Higher educational Institution in which the member is employed 
and in the presence of another member who shall witness the signature of such member.
(2) every such nomination shall be handed over by the member to the Commission or to the relevant Higher 
educational Institution, as the case may be.
(3) Where a person is unable to sign, he shall in lieu of his signature, place his left thumb impression in the presence 
of the Head of the Commission or Head of a Higher educational Institution in which the member is employed and another 
member who shall certify the nomination  to the effect that such thumb impression is the thumb impression of the person 
who made such nomination.
(4) a nominee of any member shall not witness or certify the signature or the thumb impression of a member.
9. (1) Where more than one person is nominated, the member making the nomination may specify in the nomination 
the proportion in which, the benefits payable shall be shared by the respective nominees.
(2) Where more than one person is nominated and no direction in regard to the shares payable to the nominees has 
been given by the member in any nomination made by him, the benefits payable shall be paid to the persons so nominated 
in equal shares.
10. (1) a nomination shall be deemed revoked, 
(a) where there is one nominee, upon the death of the nominee;
(b) where there is more than one nominee upon the death of anyone of them during the life time of the 
member who made such nomination; or
(c) where a nomination is made by a member prior to his marriage, upon the marriage of such member.
(2) Where any nomination is made by the member is deemed revoked, the member who made the nomination may 
make a fresh nomination. 
11. (1) a nominee of a member of the Pension fund shall be entitled to receive payments from the Pension fund, only -
(a) if he has been nominated by the member within the period of contribution of such member to the Pension 
fund; and
(b) upon the death of the member.
(2) In the event of the nominee being a minor, at the time of death of the member, the payment due from the Pension 
fund shall;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2021
5a
(a) where there is no testamentary case relating to the estate of the deceased member, be deposited in a 
government approved bank, to the credit of such nominee subject to the provisions of the Act; or
(b) where there is a testamentary case pending in respect of the estate of the deceased member be disposed in 
the manner specified by a court order.
(3)Where there is no valid nomination or where the nominee or nominees, as the case may be, are dead at the time 
of death of the member, payment shall be made to the legal heirs of the deceased member.
12. The nomination for the Pension fund shall be applicable only when releasing the balance of the Pension fund 
to the legal heirs in the event of death of a member without completing twenty years of service. 
AUDIT  AND  ACCOUNTS
13. (1) The financial year of the Pension Fund shall be the same as the financial year of the Government.
(2) The accounts of the Pension Fund in respect of each financial year shall be audited by the Auditor-General and 
the cost of the audit shall be paid to him out of the Pension fund.
(3) The Auditor-General or any officer of his department authorized by him to audit the accounts of the Pension 
Fund shall have access to all such books and documents as the Auditor-General or such officer may consider necessary for 
the purposes of the audit of such accounts, and shall be furnished by the Commission and the secretary, along with such 
information within their knowledge or ascertainable by them as may be required for such purposes.
(4) The auditor-General shall examine the accounts of the Pension fund and submit to the Commission an annual 
report –
(a) stating whether he has or has not obtained all the information required by him;
(b) stating whether the accounts referred to in the report are properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair 
view of the affairs of the Pension fund; and
(c) drawing attention to any item in such accounts, which in his opinion, may be of interest to Parliament in 
any examination of such accounts.
(5) The Commission shall appoint a professional actuarial Consultant once in every three years or as approved 
by the Commission. The Commission shall reserve its right to amend the terms and conditions of the Pension fund on the 
recommendations of the actuarial Consultant in order to ensure the viability of the Pension fund.
DECLARATION  AND  NOTIFICATION  BY  MEMBERS
14. every employee of the Commission or Higher educational Institution shall, within three months of the date of 
him becoming eligible to contribute to the Pension fund, furnish following particulars to the Head of the Commission or 
Head of a Higher educational Institution as the case may be :-
 (i) declarations made on the date of becoming a member of the Pension fund; 
 (ii)  name in full and the date of birth;
 (iii)  if married date of marriage;
 (iv)  full name of the spouse including the maiden name (if applicable) ;
 (v)  date of birth of spouse; and
 (vi) name in full and dates of birth of every child;

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2021
6a
15.  every member shall, within three months of the date of his marriage, furnish a declaration to the Head of the 
Commission or Head of a Higher educational Institution as the case may be, in the form provided for the purpose, setting 
forth the following particulars:-
 (i) the date of such marriage;
 (ii)  full name of the spouse including the maiden name (if applicable) ;
 (iii) date of birth of spouse;
 (iv) date of birth of each child born after marriage; and
 (v) names and date of birth of each child or children born prior to marriage.
 
16. every member shall within three months of the occurrence of followings, give notice to the Head of the 
Commission or Head of a Higher educational Institution, as the case may be –
 (i) the date of change of civil status due to death of the spouse or any other reason;
 (ii) the date of birth or death of a child.
17. Where the Head of the Commission or Head of a Higher educational Institution, as the case may be, is aware 
that the information specified in a declaration or notification is incorrect or incomplete, the Head of the Commission or Head 
of a Higher educational Institution,  shall by notice in writing require such member to make a further declaration giving the 
correct or complete information with adequate proof of all the particulars contained in such declaration or notification within 
the time specified in the notice. It shall be the duty of such member to comply with the requirement of every such notice.
18. every pensioner shall prior to 31
st January of each year submit to the secretary of the Commission a declaration 
in the form as may be prescribed by the Commission stating the entitlement to receive a monthly pension from the Pension 
fund.If any pensioner fails to submit the declaration prior to the due date, the monthly pension shall be suspended until the 
submission of such declaration.
GeNeraL
19 (1). Notwithstanding anything in any written law other than the Ordinance, the money lying to the credit of a 
member in the Pension fund shall not at any time be attached, sequestrated as surety against any loan, bond or agreement or 
any dues under the following circumstance: -
(a) the quantum of any loss or damage sustained by the Commission or a Higher educational Institution, by 
reason of the dishonesty or negligence of a member at any time during the period of his employment by 
Commission or Higher educational Institution;
(b) payments due on any loan taken by the member from the Commission, Higher educational Institution or 
any other institute or person, as the case may be;
(c) the dues under any bond, agreement or other instrument executed by the member;
(d) execution of a decree or process of any court.
(2)  The provisions of sub-ordinance (1) shall not be applicable to a member who does not complete twenty years 
of service or who retired, resigned or terminated prior to the age of retirement.
Provided however, where any amount is deducted from a member referred to in this sub-ordinance, the written 
consent of such member shall be obtained prior to the deducting of such amount specified by the circulars issued by the 
Commission from time to time, from the pension fund. 
resOLVING dIsPuTes
20. should any question arise as to -
(a) whether any person is a member within the meaning of the Ordinance;
(b) whether any person is entitled to any pension as the spouse or child of a member;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2021
7a
(c) the amount of pension that any spouse or child of a member shall be entitled to; 
or 
(d) the meaning or construction to be assigned to any provision of the Ordinance, the Head of the Commission 
or Head of a Higher educational Institution, shall on their own initiative, or at the written request of such 
member, spouse or children, shall submit such question for a decision to the Commission. The decision of 
the Commission thereon shall be final.
 21.  for the purpose of the Ordinance –
“act” means the universities act, No. 16 of 1978;
“age of retirement” in relation to a member means, the age of retirement of the employee including the teacher 
as specified in the Act;
“Commission” means The university Grants Commission established under the universities act, No. 16 of 1978;
“Head” means, in relation to -
(a) the Commission, the Chairman of the Commission;
(b) a university or Open university, the Vice Chancellor;
(c) a university College, Center or Institute for Higher Learning, the director;
(d) a Campus, the rector;
“Higher educational Institution” means a university, the Open university,  a university College, a Campus and 
includes an Institute or a Center for Higher Learning established or deemed to be established under the act;
 “member” means any permanent employee of the Commission or of a Higher educational Institution who is a 
contributor to the Pension fund;
“pensioner” means any member of the Pension fund who is entitled to obtain a monthly pension in terms of the 
Ordinance and who fulfills the following requirements :-
 (i) employees who have served uninterrupted and active service of twenty years or more till the age of 
retirement;
 (ii) employees who have served twenty years or more and retire due to ill health before the age of retirement;
 (iii) dependents of an employee who has served twenty years or more at the time of death;
“Pension fund” means the fund established by the Commission utilizing part of the Provident fund established 
under section 97 of the universities act, No. 16 of 1978 and university Grants Commission Circular No. 
747 of 10
th June 1999;
“Provident fund” means the Provident fund established by the Commission under Part XII of universities act, 
No. 16 of 1978;
“salary” means the emoluments of the substantive post or appointment held by any member and includes any 
such allowances as may by Commission Circulars be declared to constitute part of his salary; 
“secretary” means the secretary of the university Grants Commission;and
“teacher” shall have the same meaning as in the act and includes Librarian, deputy Librarian, senior assistant 
Librarian and assistant Librarian.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'02'02
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2021
8a
sCHeduLe  
[OrdINaNCe 6]
Column I Column II
age of retirement
Percentage of the last drawn monthly salary which 
are approved by Government and Cabinet for each 
year of service
55 1.00%
56 1.04%
57 1.08%
58 1.12%
59 1.16%
60 1.20%
65 ( Teachers only) 1.40%
01–93
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.