

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … -
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2222 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"408 – 2024 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 25 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'10'25
No. 2,408 –  FRiday, OctObER, 25, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtiON  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th November, 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st November, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2219 - b 082621 - 5,403 (10/2024)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2220
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2221
Rules  and   instructions  for  candidates
, all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who viola tes any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject
or a part thereof ;
(ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  
commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. 
the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5.
absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. 
another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. 
answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8.
any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. 
it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. 
the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. 
breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14.
a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. 
impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16.
assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i) Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. 
if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)
in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. 
if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. 
in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper,
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)
candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. 
after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
(vii) the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  
y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. 
disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
(ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) 
at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
(xii)
if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2222
Post - v acant
PubLIC   SER vICE   COmmISSION
ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Livestock, Irrigation, 
fisheries and Aquatic Resources
REcRUitMENt  t O   tHE   POSt  OF   VEtERiNaR y  SURGEON   -  GRadE   iii  OF   SRi  LaNka  aNiMaL  
PROdUctiON   aNd  HEaL tH   SERVicE   -  2024
O N the direction of the Public Service commission, applications are called from graduates of Veterinary Medicine to select 
qualified persons for One Hundred Nine (109) posts of Veterinary Surgeon Grade III of the Sri Lanka Animal Production 
and Health Service, Applications prepared as per the specimen form given at the end of this notification should be sent by 
registered post to the director General, department of animal Production and Health, P.O. box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya 
to reach on or before the under mentioned date. the "Post of Veterinary Surgeon Grade iii of Sri Lanka animal Production 
and Health Service" should be clearly stated at the top left hand corner of the envelope.
(a) closing date of receiving applications - 08.11.2024
(i) Note - any complaint regarding the loss or delay of an application or a related letter in the 
post will not be considered. Losses arising by dealing the applications till the last date for 
applications should be borne by the applicants. Applications made by those not fulfilling the 
basic qualifications will be rejected.
1. method of recruitment to the Service :
i. Recruitment to the existing vacancies of the post of Veterinary Surgeon will be made based on the merit 
list published by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Peradeniya. the applicants with 
qualification in Veterinary Medicine from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission 
will be considered as per the entry in the merit list given according to the order registered in the Sri Lanka 
Veterinary council.
ii. a  number equal to One Hundred and t en percent (110%) of the number of vacancies will be called for an 
interview and a number equal to the number of vacancies will be recruited according to the order in the merit 
list. No marks will be given for the interview.
iii. The number to be appointed and the effective date of such appointment will be decided based on the order 
by the Public Service commission.
2. Conditions of engagement in service :
i. this post is permanent. it includes a pension scheme. you should abide the policy decision of the government 
which will be taken in the future regarding the pension scheme entitled for your appointment. Further, you 
should contribute for W & OP pension scheme and pay the contribution as per the decisions taken by the 
government from time to time.
ii. The selected candidates will be appointed to fill vacancy in the post of Veterinary Surgeon in the Sri Lanka 
animal Production and Health Service.
iii. It is required that you obtain a relevant level of proficiency specified as per the Public Administration 
Circular No. 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020 and the other circulars incidental to it. An officer selected to serve 
with qualifications in a language other than an Official Language is required to obtained the proficiency in 
an Official Language at level III before he is made permanent in the post.
iv. This appointment is subject to the terms and conditions of the service minute of Sri Lanka Animal Production 
and Health Service published in the Government Gazette dated 13.12.2013 and to the amended orders made 
to it from time to time, to the procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, to the Establishment code 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to the Financial regulations of the government and to 
other departmental regulations.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2223
3. Salary Scale  :
as per Schedule 01 of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016, the monthly salary scale 
applicable to this post is Rs. 47,615 - 10x1,335 - 8x1,630 - 17x2,170 - Rs. 110,895 -(SL-1-2016). the payment of 
salary will be made according to the regulations mentioned in Schedule ii of the above circular.
4. Educational Qualifications - A degree in Veterinary Science obtained from a University recognized by the University 
Grants commission.
5. age Limit - Should not be below 21 years and above the maximum age limit of 35 years on the closing date of 
applications.
6. Physical Qualifications - 
i. ability to serve in any part of Sri Lanka by every candidate, and
ii. Possession of adequate physical and mental fitness to perform duties in the post, and the sound state of the 
physical health should be certified by a medical report.
7. Other Qualifications - 
i. The applicants must be citizens of Sri Lanka;
ii. The applicants should be excellent character;
iii. the applicants must have registered in the Veterinary council of Sri Lanka under the Veterinary Surgeons 
and Practitioners Act and fulfillment of all the required qualifications for recruitment to the post by the 
closing date for applications.
8. The Interview - 
 General Interview; (no marks will be given) 
 Objective : To check the fulfillment of the requirement of the notification published as per the Scheme of Recruitment 
and the assessment of the physical fitness.
9. method of Application :
 i. the application should be made using both sides of a 22-29 cm a  4 size paper, as per the format given in 
the specimen application form.
 ii. The originals of the following certificates should be presented once informed for the interview.
 iii.  (a) National card/ Valid Passport
  (b) Birth Certificate; 
(c) Degree certificate and other relevant certificates;
(d) Two character certificates obtained recently (one of which should be from the Grama Niladhari 
of the area and certified by the Divisional Secretary);
(e) Certificates of the highest examinations passed in Sinhala/ Tamil and English languages;
(f) Certificate of Registration as a Veterinary Surgeon in the Sri Lanka Veterinary Council.
10. Other Provisions :
i. the Public Service commission reserves the authority to take decisions on matters not set out in this 
Gazette Notification.
ii. The Public Service Commission reserves the right of making the final decision on the filling/not filling the 
vacancies or filling only a part of the vacancies.
iii. the Sinhala version will prevail in case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, t amil and English 
versions of this Gazette notification.
iv. The candidature of any candidate will be cancelled if it is revealed to have no qualifications.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2224
v.  if it is revealed that the candidate has given false information, or that he/she has concealed any information 
intentionally he/she will be dismissed form the service.
by Order of the Public Service commision.
 ........................................,
 Secretary.
Ministry of agriculture, Lands, Livestock, irrigation, Fisheries and aquatic Resources,
16th October, 2024.
Specimen Form of application
APPLICATION  fOR  RECRuITmENT  fOR  ThE  v ACANCIES  IN  ThE  POST  Of vETERINAR y 
SuRGEON  GRADE  III Of ThE  SRI  LANkA  ANImAL  PRODuCTION  AND  hEALTh SER vICE
(for office use  only)
01. i. Name with initials -
          in Sinhala : ………………………………………………………………………………………………
          in English (in block Letters)
ii. Names denoted by the initials (in English block letters)
02.  National identity card No.   
03. Postal address : ……………………………………………………………….
 ……………………………………………………………….
 (any change in the address should be informed without delay)
04. i. Provincial council  : ……………………………………
 ii. district  : ……………………………………
 of the permanent residence
05. telephone No. : Fixed 
   Mobile 
06. date of birth : y ear ………… Month ……… date …………
 age as at the closing date of applications : y ears : ……… Months : ………… days : ……………
07. a) Whether you are a Sri Lankan : ……………………………………………
 b) Ethnicity (Sinhala/ Sri Lankan tamil/ indian tamil/ Muslim/ Other) ………………………

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2225
08. a) Gender : ………………………
b) Whether married/ single or widowed: ……………………
09. Educational Qualifications :
Degree/ Post Graduate 
Degree obtained
Class university Date of completion of 
the degree
1.
2.
3.
10. Number and date of registration at the Sri Lanka Veterinary council : ………………
11. Particulars of service : (if holding a permanent post at present)
 
Present Post Period of Service Service station ; Department/ Provincial 
Councilfrom to
1.
2.
3.
12. i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am aware that i 
will be disqualified if any particulars indicated here are detected false or incorrect before the selection and I will 
be subject to dismissal from the service without any compensation if detected after the appointment. I also certify 
signing below that I have not been convicted of any criminal offence by any court of law. 
    ………………………………………,
    Signature of the applicant.
    
 date : …………………
(Applicable only to the applicants holding a permanent post in the Government)
1. Certificate of the Head of the Department/ Establishment
I certify that the above applicant Mr./ Mrs./ Miss. ………………………………… is an officer of this Department/ Provincial 
council holding a post of …………………… and that the particulars mentioned in the application are correct according 
to his/her personal file. I also inform that he/she can/cannot be released from this Department/ from the Provincial Public 
Service if this officer is selected to this post.
    ………………………………………,
    Head of the department/ Establishment,
    (Official Stamp).
date : …………………
address : ……………………………
10-200

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2226
SRI   LANkA   AIR   fORCE  
Sri Lanka Regular Air force
OFFicER cadEt  aNd Lady  OFFicER cadEt  V acaNciES
1. Vacancies exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following branches.
a. General duties Pilot branch (Male) 
b. aeronautical and General Engineering branch (Male/Female)
c. Electronics and t elecommunication Engineering branch (Male/Female)
d. Operations Air Branch (Air Traffic Controller) (Male/Female)
e. Regiment branch (Male/Female)
f. Logistics branch (Male/Female)
g. administrative branch (Male/Female)
j. Provost (Air Force Police) Branch (Male)
k. Performing arts branch (Male)
2. Applications are invited from Male / Female candidates possessing the qualifications given below.
3. SPECIfIC QuALIfICATIONS (DEGREE PROGRAmmE): BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entry qualifications 
(accredited by the General Sir John kotelawala defence University). Further, candidates who are applying for the 
degree programme are to mention whether they have fulfilled the minimum entry qualifications for university admission 
when indicating a/L results in the application form.
 a. General Duties Pilot / Operations Air (Air Traffic Controller) Branches 
a  minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE (O/L) examination with compulsory credit (c) passes for English 
language, Science, Mathematics and a Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / t amil language in one sitting and 
Simple (S) passes in three subjects at the GCE (A/L) examination in Physical Science stream/ Bio Science stream 
(Physics is a compulsory subject) or Technology Stream (Science for technology is a compulsory subject) in one 
sitting.  
b. Aeronautical and General Engineering / Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering branches
a  minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE (O/L) examination with compulsory credit (c) passes for English 
language, Science, Mathematics and a Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / t amil language in one sitting and t wo 
Credit (C) passes and one Simple (S) pass in three subjects at the GCE (A/L) examination in Physical Science stream 
(Combined Mathematics and  Physics are compulsory subjects) or Technology Stream (Science for Technology and 
Engineering Technology are  compulsory subjects) in one sitting.
c. Regiment/ Logistics/Administrative/ Provost (Air force Police)  branches 
a  minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE (O/L) examination with compulsory credit (c) passes for English 
language, Science, Mathematics and a Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / t amil language in one sitting and 
Simple (S) passes in three subjects at the GCE (A/L) examination in Physical / Bio Science / Commerce / Technology 
/ arts Streams in one sitting. (candidates over height of 5’ 8’’ (Male) will have an advantage when considering for 
the Provost branch). 
 
d. Performing Arts branch 
 a  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE (O/L) examination with compulsory credit (c) passes for English 
language, Science, Mathematics and Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / t amil language and Simple (S) pass and 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2227
above for Western Music as an aesthetic subject in one sitting (additional and optional subjects are not considered). 
In addition, three passes in three subjects at the GCE (A/L) examination in Arts stream including Western Music or 
Oriental Music in one sitting.
 three years or more experience in western brass bands/ western cadet bands.
ability to play woodwind, brass wind or percussion instruments, ability to arrange Music for brass bands 
and ability to conducting ensemble group will be an added qualification.
4. Special Note:-  
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) or Cambridge International 
Ordinary Level Examinations:   Six grades in one sitting are compulsory including Physics, chemistry, biology, 
Mathematics and English. the marks obtained for the grading is to be (equal or above) the lowest marks required for 
a credit pass in GCE O/Ls. Candidates who are applying with Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of 
Secondary Education (GcSE) and cambridge international Ordinary Level exams without a Simple pass for Sinhala or 
tamil language should obtain pass grading for Sinhala or tamil language within 05 years of date of enlistment. 
for Pearson Edexcel /Cambridge – International Advanced Level Examinations - must have obtained the minimum 
marks (Equal or above) which are required to obtain passes in GCE A/Ls specified separately for respective branches. 
5. Other Requirements. Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular 
air Force.
a. Nationality                    :-  Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
b. age                            :- Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years as at 01 January 2025 
for the 01
st  batch and not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years as 
at 01 June 2025 for the 02 nd  batch of trainees for year 2025.
c. Height                 :-  Male  - 165 cm (5’ 5") and above
       Female  - 160 cm (5’ 3") and above
d. Weight                       :- Male      - 17 < bMi < 26        Weight (kg)           
        Female   - 17 < bMi < 25                 Height (m) 2 
e. chest   :- Male - 32” (Minimum)
f. colour Vision Standard  :-  cP2
g. Visual acuity                 :-  Left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6 
       (Without spectacles / contact Lenses)
a. civil Status               :-  candidates must be unmarried. No cadet will be permitted to marry whilst 
under training and for a further period of one (1) year from the date of 
commissioning.
6. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
7. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the requirements of Para 3, 4 and 5 will be rejected. On arrival for the first 
interview, the height, vision and weight will be measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight are below the 
standards specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed.
bMi =

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2228
8. Any candidate who has special skills/qualifications may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be 
considered, even though he / she does not have any of above pre-requisite, provided that he/she possesses the requisite 
of the Professional/ Special  qualifications for the best interest of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
9. Conditions of Service
 a. The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as an Officer Cadet/ Lady Officer Cadet on a regular engagement in 
the same manner as for Other Ranks and will undergo a basic combat training course. On successful completion 
of training, the duration of which will depend on the branch, the status allocated on his / her enlistment as an 
Officer Cadet will lapse and will receive a Permanent Commission in the rank of Pilot Officer.
 b. Officer Cadets will be required to undergo training at a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the Commander 
of the air Force in consultation with the Ministry of defence.
 c. During the period of training as Officer Cadets and thereafter, personnel will be subjected to Air Force Law.
 d. Every Officer Cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
 e. During the period of training an Officer Cadet will be accommodated in an Air Force Mess and will be provided 
with food.
 f. In the event of an Officer Cadet voluntarily terminating his / her candidature for a commission during training, the 
parent or guardian will be required to refund to the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka all the expenses 
incurred up to that time by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such Officer Cadet.
 g. If at any time during his / her course an Officer Cadet is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons 
of misconduct or due to causes within his / her control to qualify for a commission, his / her parent or guardian will 
be required to refund all expenses incurred on his / her training to the Sri Lanka air Force and will be required to 
enter into a bond to this effect with the Commander of the Air Force acting on behalf of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka.
 h.  Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 34 of the application form in respect of sub paragraphs 
(f) and (g) above, and forward them together with the application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter in 
to a bond subsequently in this form with the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment 
of these candidates as Officer Cadets.
 i. candidates who possess the requirement as per para 3,4 and 5 will be called for the Preliminary interview based 
on their preference of three branches and if successful will be called for Medical Examinations. all candidates 
selected will be medically examined under Sri Lanka air Force arrangements to check the suitability on par 
with the Sri Lanka air Force Medical Employment Standards. a separate extensive medical examination called 
‘aircrew Medicals’ will be conducted for General duties Pilot branch candidates who are successful in the 
Preliminary Interview. Candidates who hide any history of sicknesses, injuries or failed to declare medicines 
prescribed for particular sicknesses will be rejected at any time of the interview process.
 j. All Branch candidates who are successful in the medical examination will be called for the Officer Qualifying 
Test. After completion of Officer Qualifying Test the General Duties Pilot Branch candidates, if successful will 
be called for the Flying aptitude test. candidates who successfully complete these tests will be called for the 
Final interview. the required number of candidates per branch and list of stand-by candidates to face the Final 
Interview will be selected according to the merit list and the final order of merit will be prepared after these 
interviews and tests.
k. Prior to attending Flying aptitude test, the General duties Pilot branch candidates will be given an option, if 
unsuccessful at the test, to leave the interview process or to  join any Branch offered by the Sri Lanka Air Force as 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2229
per the vacancies available. Marks obtained up to Officer Qualifying Test will be considered to compare with other 
candidates who originally applied for that particular branch. candidates who are unsuccessful at Flying aptitude 
test will not be considered to re-apply for General duties Pilot branch in future.
m. Candidates who attend final interviews are required to declare their final decision to join the Sri Lanka Air Force at 
the interview board or just after it, in order to be given an opportunity to candidates at the Stand by list. Candidates 
who passed final interview and failed to inform their inability to join Sri Lanka Air Force and absent at the final 
enlistment will not be considered for any future attempt to join the Sri Lanka Air Force.
n. candidates who show poor performance and do not possess right attitude, ethical behavior and self-conduct at any 
level of the interview process will be subjected to rejection.
p. A single Officer is required to live in the Officers’ Mess. He / She is provided with furnished accommodation and 
food. batman service will be provided. 
q. A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable to 
public servants.
r. All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
s. All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
10. Official Language Requirements. the selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or 
may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions of the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
11. Pay and Allowances
a. Following are the consolidated pay applicable to each of the progressive commissioned ranks. Further, it is to be 
noted that all consolidated salaries indicated below are the initial step of particular grade.
y ear 2024
(annual)Rank
Officer Cadets 388,560.00
Pilot Officer (Cadet) 463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) 502,860.00
Flying Officer 571,380.00 - (30x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
Flight Lieutenant 667,500.00 – (24x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
Squadron Leader 731,580.00 – (22x16,020) = 1,084,020.00
Wing commander 751,140.00 - (17x19,560) = 1,083,660.00
b. Other Allowances
 (1) cost of living allowance of Rs. 17,800/- per month.
 (2) Incentive Allowance - Rs. 250.00 per month after five years of service. (Only Regular Service)
 (3) Hard allowance Rs.620/- Per month (Rs.20.00 per day)
 (4) additional Hard allowance Rs. 4,380.00 per month for those serving in operational areas.
 (5) Special allowance - Rs. 3,100.00 per month. (Rs.100.00 will be paid per day)
 (6) interim allowance Rs. 1,000.00 per month.
 (7) Uniform Upkeep allowance - air cadre and above Rs.600.00, Gp capt and bellow Rs.525.00 per month.
 (8) batman allowance - Rs. 637.50 per month.
 (9) Ration allowance - Rs. 36,008.36 per month (Rs. 1,161.56 per day).
Rs. 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2230
(10) Qualification Pay - Where applicable (up to Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Rent Allowance - For married Officers not in occupation of a government married quarter (starting from  
Rs.3, 200.00 up to Rs. 8,500.00 per month as applicable.)
(12)  telephone bill allowance – Starting from the Rank of Wing commander (Rs.1, 875.00 up to Rs. 3,750.00 
per month as applicable.)
(13)  Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for Officer, spouse & children).
14)  An additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for Officers living in Messes to travel 
from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(15)  Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(16) Free medical facilities (including for families as applicable)
(17) Married Officers those who permitted to live out are entitled for a free bus pass of the Sri Lanka Transport 
board to travel residence to place of work within 30 miles radius.
(18) Flying allowance - Will be paid for Pilots in the General duties Pilot branch as applicable (Rs.340.00 up to 
Rs. 2,500.00 per month). 
(19) Flying Professional allowance - Rs. 15,000.00 Will be paid for captain Pilots in the General duties Pilot 
branch as applicable
(20) Engineering Allowances - Rs. 15,000.00 per month (Applicable for Qualified Engineering Officers only).
(21)    Special interim allowance - Rs.5, 000.00 per month.
12. Pensions/Gratuities   Payable in terms of the air Force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended from time 
to time. All Officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Force) Scheme. Rate of contributions 
are as per Widows and Orphans Pension (armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
13. Instructions to Applicants
a. applicants should complete all the sections of the application form correctly and in order as per the format 
below and should be forwarded under registered post cover to: “ChIEf  RECRuITING OffICER, AIR 
fORCE RECR uITING Off ICE, SRI LANkA  AIR fORCE TRADE TRAINING SChOOL, EkALA, 
kOTuGODA” so as to reach not later than 12.00 noon on 02
nd  December 2024 for the 01 st  batch and not later 
than 12.00 noon on 30 th  march 2025 for the 02 nd  batch of year 2025. the envelope enclosing the application should 
be marked “APPLICATION fOR mALE CADETShIP / LADy  CADETShIP”. applicants can also send their 
applications through the website at www.airforce.lk/joinus/apply . a candidate will be allowed to apply for three 
branches as per the order of preference/choice in one application.  He/she will be called up on to the preliminary 
interview of most suitable Branch where qualifications are matched. In case if fails at the preliminary interview of 
first choice he/she will be called upon to interviews of other Branches indicated as decided by the  Commander of 
the air Force based on the vacancies available. Final decision on calling for interviews for any branch out of three 
choices is as per the discretion of the commander of the air Force. applications received after the closing date and 
not in accordance with the requirements of this notification and not in registered post mail will not be entertained. 
b.  candidates who are in Government Service / corporations / boards / civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through their Heads of department / corporations / boards / civil Establishments and should bear a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
c.  applicants who have internet facilities can send their applications through the website www.airforce.lk/joinus/apply  
and for applicants who do not have such facilities should send their applications by registered post to the address 
mentioned in para 13 (a) above. 
d. Candidates will be required to produce the originals with certified photo copy of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or whenever called upon to do so.
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate issued for the purpose of the education code will not be 
accepted)
(2) National identity card.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2231
(3) Original certificates in support of the educational qualifications required for the branch applied (Rubber 
Stamp is required for the certificate issued by Department of Examination or by School)
(4) Certificates of trade / technical training experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(5) Two recent certificates of character (obtained within 06 months). One of these should be from the Principal 
of the last school attended and the other from a   responsible person who has knowledge of the applicant 
for more than two years or from the present employer (if employed).
(6) Original certificates in support of sports activities and Extra Curricular activities.
(7) A Grama Niladhari certificate issued within six months.
(8) School leaving certificate.
(9) A plain folder with file tag.
(10) Two colour photos of 2x2½ inches certified by the Grama Niladhari.
e. applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
f. No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
g. The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if    enclosed with the application form.
h. candidates will be called for the Preliminary interview based on the basic requirements such as, educational 
qualifications, Height, Age, Chest etc. provided in the respective application form and candidates who provided 
wrong information will be rejected at the preliminary checks.
14. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the 
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after selection.
15. Selection Interviews
a. Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates who 
are selected will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final 
selection will then be made after an interview of those selected candidates by a selection board appointed by the 
Ministry of defence.
b. candidates selected for interviews will be informed of the place, time and date of such interviews. travelling or 
other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
c. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he / she is to produce his / her National identity 
card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
d. All Candidates who are selected are required to undergo written, practical and Officer Qualifying Test during the 
selection process.
e. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him / her a testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
f. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
Raup Rajapaksa,
RSP and two bars, VSV , USP, MSc (MOa) USa, 
MSc (def Stu) in Mgt, Ma  in iS&S (Uk), bSc  
(def Stu),
 MiM (SL), aMiE (SL), rcds, psc 
air Marshal
commander of the air Force.
air Force Headquarters,
defence Headquarters complex, 
P.O. box 594,
Sri Jayawardhanapura,
kotte.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2232
APPLICATION fOR OffICER CADET / LADy OffICER CADET IN ThE 
…………………………………………… bRANCh Of ThE SRI LANkA AIR fORCE
branch Preferences:
1. 2. 3.
1. Nationality: - ………………………………………………………….. (State whether citizen of Sri
Lanka by descent or by registration and iflatter, quote mentioned date of certificate)
2. Full Name (as per the National identity card) : -  ……………………….....…….…… 
…………………………………………………………………………………………… 
3. National identity card Number : - ……………………………………………………… 
4. Permanent address : - ………………………………………………………..…............ 
5. Postal address :  - ……………………………………………………………….............. 
6. date of birth : - ……………….......…………………………………………………….. 
(age as at 01 January 2025 for 01 st batch / 01 June 2025  for 02 nd batch )
7. Height : - …………cm   (………..Feet ..................................inches)
8. chest : - ........................cm
9. Weight : -.....................kg
10. Nearest PoliceStation to permanent address :  - …….......…………………………………………….. 
11. Nearest air Force camp to permanent address : -……………………………......……………………. 
12. district : -………………………………………………………….……….……......………………… 
13. Electorate :  -…………………………………………….………………………......…………………… 
14. Grama Niladhari division : - ..………………………………………….…......………………………… 
15. telephone number : - …………… Whatsapp Number: -................... Email: -......................................
16. Married orSingle : - ………………………………………......………………….…………………….. 
17. Gender : - ……………………………………………………......……………………….. 
18. Schools attended : - Primary -…………………………………………………...... .................................
Secondary - ………………………………………………...... ................................
Indicate the Batch Applying for  01st Batch 2025 / 02nd Batch 2025 
age years:…………Months:………….days:…………… 
Official useonly
.................

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2233
19. Particulars of School qualifications obtained : -
Name of 
School 
Type of Examination Year and Index  Number of 
the Examination 
Subjects Passed 
(Including Grading) 
Ordinary Level
advanced Level
(to mention whether
qualified or not to apply
for University admission) General English
yes No common General test
Other/Professional
Qualifications
20. any s pecial qualification for the post: - ……………………………......………………….. 
21. Particulars of employment since leaving School (if applicable):  -
Name and Address of 
Employer 
Nature of Employment Period of Service 
From to
22. Pa rticulars of Family: -
Name with Initials NIC No. Occupation Present address 
Past Present
Father:
Mother:
Siblings

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2234
23. details of blood relatives who are serving at present or previously served in armed Forces .
(Now if they have already left the service, please state the reason for leaving, including legal
issues)
Rank Name Branch/Trade Present State 
24. details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated
with dates / years etc. and standards / levels achieved): -
S/No. Description School Provincial National International 
25. Other achievements at School or at outside organizations (Give details with dates  / years etc.): -
………………………………………………………….......………………………………………
26. any previous service in the armed Force or Volunteer Force, cadet corps or Scouting
Organizations: -………………………………………………………………......…. 
27. Have you applied earlier to join the S ri Lanka air Force or any of the armed Services or    Police, if
so give details and the outcome of such applications: - …………………………..........…
28. if so, did you attend the Flying aptitude test conducted for General duties Pilot branch                      Officer
cadets at air Force academy china - bay. ………………………….............
29. Pleas e indicate the year/Month and call up number if you attended the Sri Lanka air Force
interview.
a. year: ......................... Month: ............................ call up number............................
b. Results:  Passed / Failed
30. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, or any pending criminal or
civil court cases against you? if so give details: -………………………………….. 
31. if earlier e mployed  in a Government department o r  i n the Public Sector / board / corporation  
(including the  central bank, National bank, U niversities, J o int Stock c ompanies controlled by the  
Government etc .) reasons f or termination o f  e mployment: -
32. Particulars of character certificates: -
3 3. Declaration to be signed by the applicant : - i d eclare o n m y honour that answers given to t he
above questio ns are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. i have read and   
u nderstood the procedure which will b e adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commissio ning in the Sri Lanka air Force as published 
in the   Gazette of the Re p ublic of  Sri La nka.
Name Designation Postal Address 
date………….. ………………………. .,
Signature of applicant.
34. decl aration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant:
a. i am the Parent  / Guardian  of………………………………who is an applicant for 
cadetship in the Sri Lanka air Force and who has signed the declaration in cage 33 of the form 
of application above.
b. i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a
course of training for the following.
(1) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant
volunt arily terminating his / her candidature for a commission during his  / her period
of training, all expenses incurred up to that time, by the Republic of Sri Lanka on
account of such applicant.
(2) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant
reported on by the authorities as being unsuitable (For reasons of misconduct or due to
causes within his / her own control) for the issue of a commission, all the expenses
in curred on his / her account, by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
date………………………..   …………………...................  
Signature of Parent /Guardian 
Name :……………………………………………………………………………………………….. 
(in block capitals)
address: ………………………………………………………………………………………………..
date………………………..    …………………................... 
Signature of First Witness
Name :………………………………………………………………………………………………..
(in block capitals)
address: ………………………………………………………………………………………………..
date………………………..            …………………...................  
Signature of Second Witness
Name :………………………………………………………………………………………………..
(in block capitals)
address: ……………………………………………………………………………………………….. 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2235
date………….. ………………………. .,
Signature of applicant.
34. decl aration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant:
a. i am the Parent  / Guardian  of………………………………who is an applicant for 
cadetship in the Sri Lanka air Force and who has signed the declaration in cage 33 of the form 
of application above.
b. i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a
course of training for the following.
(1) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant
volunt arily terminating his / her candidature for a commission during his  / her period
of training, all expenses incurred up to that time, by the Republic of Sri Lanka on
account of such applicant.
(2) to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant
reported on by the authorities as being unsuitable (For reasons of misconduct or due to
causes within his / her own control) for the issue of a commission, all the expenses
in curred on his / her account, by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
date………………………..   …………………...................  
Signature of Parent /Guardian 
Name :……………………………………………………………………………………………….. 
(in block capitals)
address: ………………………………………………………………………………………………..
date………………………..    …………………................... 
Signature of First Witness
Name :………………………………………………………………………………………………..
(in block capitals)
address: ………………………………………………………………………………………………..
date………………………..            …………………...................  
Signature of Second Witness
Name :………………………………………………………………………………………………..
(in block capitals)
address: ……………………………………………………………………………………………….. 
10-228/1

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2236
SRI  LANkA  AIR  fORCE
Sri Lanka Air Force Direct Entry Officer Vacancies
1. Vacancies exist for suitable Male / Female Commissioned Officers in the Regular / V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air 
Force in the following Branches to be joined as Direct Entry Officers.
a. aeronautical and General Engineering (Male).
b. Electronics and t elecommunication Engineering (Male/Female).
c. information t echnology Engineering (Male/Female).
d. Logistics (Male).
e. admin (Male/Female).
f. civil Engineering (Male/Female).
g. Medical (Male/Female).
h. dental (Male/Female).
j. Legal (Male).
k. Veterinary (Male/Female).
l. agriculture (Male).
m. Performing arts (Male).
n. Education (Male/Female)
p. audit (Male).
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the professional qualifications indicated below.
3. PROfESSIONAL / ACADEmIC QuALIfICATIONS
a. AERONAuTICAL AND GENERAL ENGINEERING bRANCh
(1) Research Engineering Officer - Material/ Electrical Engineer - Male (Regular) 
bachelors or Master degree in Material/Electrical Engineering (the award winners at the initial & secondary 
degree programmes at Sri Lankan Government Universities will be given priority) or similar capacity.
charted Engineering or associate Membership in iESL will be an added advantage. a  completed 
apprenticeship / additional courses/ working experiences in relevant field would be advantageous. Strong 
mathematical, analytical and creative thinking skills related to Ua V systems (data Link, autopilot Systems 
and Firmware development, Electro- Mechanical Systems, Flight controls   and Stability). Researches/ 
publications conducted related to autonomous Systems/Vehicles, Machine Learning (Python,c,etc) 
related software handling (SOLid WORk, cad, MatLab) and intensive for iEEE publications will 
be considered as value added qualification. Strong communication skills, team work and experience with 
regard to research on Ua V and drones will be given priority.
Previous experience in research projects will be considered as an additional advantage.
b. ELECTRONICS AND TELECOmmuNICATION ENGINEERING bRANCh
Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Officer – Male/Female (Regular)     
    
bachelor’s Engineering degree in Electronics & t elecommunication Engineering / Mechatronics Engineering 
or Bachelor’s Degree in Physical Science with Electronics / Telecommunication as a main subject from a 
recognized University or Higher Diploma / Diploma in Engineering / Technology in the fields of Electronics /
Telecommunication. One (01) year experience in the relevant field and Associate Membership in IESL will be 
an added advantage.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2237
c. INfORmATION TEChNOLOGy  ENGINEERING bRANCh
(1) Network Engineer - male (Regular)   
bachelor’s Engineering degree in computer or it  related stream / bachelor’s degree in computer or it  
related stream / Bachelor’s Degree in Physical Science with Computer Science or IT as a main subject 
/ Higher National diploma in it  (HNdit) / diploma in it  /associate member in iESL (computer) / 
associate Member of the british computer Society / associate Member of the australian computer Society. 
Specialization knowledge and experience in data communication / data networks or server systems will be 
an added advantage. 
(2) Software Engineer - male / female (Regular)  
 
bachelors Engineering degree in computer or it  related stream / bachelor’s degree in computer or it  
related stream / Bachelor’s Degree in Physical Science with Computer Science or IT as a main subject 
/ Higher National diploma in it  (HNdit) / diploma in it  / associate member in iESL (computer) / 
associate Member of british computer Society / associate Member of australian computer Society. Strong 
development skills and proficiency in programming languages, having experience in Java, C# or C/
C++, hTmL / XhTmL / hTmL 5, CSS3(Cascade Style Sheet), React JS, Angular JS, Ajax JavaScript, 
J Query, PhP, mySQL, ASP.NET, mSSQL, enterprise technologies (such as Web services, APIs, XmL, 
JSON, SSO, JmS), experience in cloud technologies and container technologies (such as a WS, azure and 
docker), micro services, enterprise integration and aPi management will be an added advantage.
(3) Data Science and business Analysist - male / female (Regular)  
Bachelor’s degree in Data Science, Computer Science, or related field with data visualization/ data science 
as a major subject. Strong programming skills in Python, R, or SQL. Experience with machine learning 
libraries and frameworks (e.g. Scikit-learn, t ensor Flow, Pyt orch) data science, data statistics and data 
analysis. knowledge of data visualization tools (e.g. t ableau, Power bi), analytical and problem solving 
skills.
(4) Geoinformatics Specialist - male / female (Regular)  
bachelor’s of Science in Surveying (Specialization in GiS&RS) / Master of Science in GiS & RS / Post 
Graduate diploma in GiS &RS, Specialization knowledge and experience in GiS and RS will be an added 
advantage.
 
d. LOGISTICS bRANCh
(1) Resident manager – male (Regular)   
(a) bachelor’s degree related to Hospitality Management specialized in Food and beverage or Professional 
cookery
or
4 years Management diploma in culinary Management or Professional cookery with Second class or 
above grade at the Sri Lanka institute of t ourism and Hotel Management (SLitHM)
with
Minimum one year working experience in food and beverages service or professional cookery in star 
class or reputed Hotels.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2238
(b) 3 years Management diploma at the Sri Lanka institute of tourism and Hotel Management (SLitHM) 
specialized in Food and beverages service or professional cookery
with
Minimum one year working experience in reputed Hotels
(c) completion of all 4 levels in Hotel management in Sir Lanka institute of tourism and Hotel Management 
(SLitHM)
with
Minimum of one year working experiences in food and beverages service or Professional cookery in 
reputed Hotels
e. ADmINISTRATIvE bRANCh
Administrative Officer - Male / Female (Regular)   
  
Bachelor degree in Commerce/ Management/ Arts/ fully qualified Chartered Accountants or equivalent qualifications.
f. CIvIL ENGINEERING bRANCh
(1)    Civil / Mechanical / Electrical Engineering Officer - Male / Female (Regular / Volunteer) 
corporate Membership of iESL (chartered Engineer) in civi l / Mechanical / Ele c tric a l En g i neerin g or 
bach e lor of Science  de g r e e (bSc) in En g ine e rin g spe c iali z a ti on in civi l / Mechanical / Ele c tric a l En g i neerin g 
a nd assoc iat e d Membe rship of iESL or bachelor of technology in Engineering (bt ech) a nd assoc iat e d 
Membe rship of iESL or N dt/ Nd ES /HNd E in civ il / Mechanical / Ele c tric a l Eng ine e rin g or equivalent  
qualification with iiESL membership.
(2) Architect - male / female (Regular / v olunteer) 
Charted Architect qualification or MSc Arch or B Arch Degree in University of Moratuwa or completion of 
both Part i and Part ii of Sri Lanka institute of architects (SLia) or any other degree recognized by UGc and 
SLia with Graduate Membership of SLia. 
(3) Surveyor – male / female (Regular / v olunteer)  
bachelor’s degree in Surveying Sciences or bachelor’s degree from iSM diyatalawa.
g. mEDICAL bRANCh 
 
(1) Consultant Surgeon – male / female (v olunteer) 
(a) Post graduate degree, Md or MS in Surgery. 
(b) Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) registration as Board Certified Consultant. 
 
(2) Consultant Anaesthetist – male / female (v olunteer)
(a) Post graduate degree, Md in anaesthesiology. 
 (b) Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) registration as Board Certified Consultant.
(3) Consultant Physician – male / female (v olunteer)
(a) Post graduate degree, Md in General Medicine.
(b) Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) registration as Board Certified Consultant.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2239
(4) Consultant Paediatrician – male / female (v olunteer)
(a) Post graduate degree, Md in paediatrics. 
(b) Sri Lanka Medical council  (SLMc) registration as Board Certified Consultant
 
(5) Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist – male / female (v olunteer)
(a) Post graduate degree, Md in Obstetrics and Gynaecology.
(b) Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) registration as a Board Certified  Consultant  Obstetrician and 
Gynaecologist.
  
(6) Nutritionist male / female (Regular)
bSc degree/ MSc in food and Nutrition with Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) Registration.
(7) Psychologist male / female (Regular)
degree in Psychology - ba  (Special) Psychology.
h. DENTAL  bRANCh
(1) Dental Officers – Male / Female (Regular / Volunteer)
bdS (Sri Lanka) or a degree equivalent to bdS from any recognized University of foreign country with full 
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical council.
(2) Dental Students – male / female (Regular)
  
Students who are studying in the 07
th  – 08 th   semesters (equivalent to 4 th  year) or students who have successfully 
completed eight (08 th ) semesters (equivalent to 5 th  year) of bdS (Sri Lanka) degree programme.
.
(3)  Pre - Intern Trainees – male / female (Regular)  
Pre-intern Dental Officers who have successfully completed BDS (Sri Lanka) or Degree equivalent to BDS 
obtained from any recognized University of a foreign country which is accepted by Sri Lanka Medical council 
and who have not obtained Provisional registration at Sri Lanka Medical council will also be considered. 
Foreign Graduates, who have not completed ERPdS examination, must complete the examination and should 
obtain Sri Lanka Medical Council full registration within five (05) years from the date of enlistment.
j. LEGAL  bRANCh 
Legal Officer – Male (Regular / Volunteer)  
 (1) attorney-at-Law of the Supreme court of Sri Lanka and 
(a) Work experience in the Magistrate’s courts, district courts, High courts or Superior courts.
(b) Should have knowledge in drafting agreements and deeds both in Sinhala and English languages.
(c) Should have knowledge on company secretarial services.
(d) Should be fluent in English and computer literacy.
 
k. vETERINAR y   bRANCh 
Veterinary Officer – Male / Female (Regular / Volunteer) 
bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and animal Science (bVSc) or equivalent with registration of Sri Lanka Veterinary 
Council (SLVC). BVSc degree holders with pending SLVC registration subjected to completion of 06 months 
internship will also be considered. Work experience will be an added advantage.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2240
l. AGRICuLTuRE  bRANCh
Agriculture Officer - Male (Regular / Volunteer)  
 Bachelor’s Degree in Agriculture / Horticulture / Landscaping or Postgraduate degree in the same field or equivalent.
m. PERfORmING  ARTS  bRANCh 
(1) band master – music (Ceremonial band) – male (Regular)
Bachelor’s Degree with western music as a major subject from a recognized university. 
or
Successfully completed a music licentiate diploma from an internationally recognized institute. 
or
Successfully completed Grade V music theory and practical examination from an internationally recognized 
institute.
 
(2) band master – music (Entertainment band) – male / female (Regular)
Bachelor’s Degree with music as a major subject from a recognized university. 
      or
Successfully completed final level of National Dance and Music examination (Music) of Sri Lanka. 
      or
Successfully completed final level of visharad examination (Music) from Bhathkande sangit vidyapith, 
Lucknow.  
(3) band master – Dancing / Drumming (Dance Troupe) – male / female (Regular) 
Bachelor’s Degree with Dance or Drumming as a major subject from a recognized university. 
or
Successfully completed Final level of visharad examination (kathak dance/bharatha  Natyam) from 
bhathkande sangit vidyapith, Lucknow.  
or
Successfully completed Gold level of dance examination (Latin/ballroom/ballet) from an internationally 
recognized institute. 
         
n. EDuCATION  bRANCh
English Language Instructor – male / female (v olunteer)
Bachelor’s Degree with English Language as a subject or a Bachelor’s Degree B.Ed (Bachelor’s of Education) in 
English or Post Graduate diploma in teaching English as Second Language (tESL) / teaching English as a Foreign 
Language (tEFL) / teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (tESOL) or Master degree (Ma) in English 
or Master degree (Ma) in English Literature or Master degree (Ma) in tESL/tESOL/tEFL.
or

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2241
Successful completion of three (03) years teacher training diploma course as an English Language teacher at 
“National college of Education” or Higher National diploma in English at (SLiatE) or Successful completion of 
Certificating teaching English to speakers of other languages (CELTA) / Diploma in teaching English to speakers of 
other languages (dEL ta)  (University of cambridge) at british council.
and
two years teaching experience at a recognized institute would be an added qualification.
p. AuDIT  bRANCh   
(1) Internal Audit Officer – Male (Regular)  
(a) bachelor’s degree in commerce / Management / accountancy or business discipline from the recognized 
University of Sri Lanka and Minimum One (01) to three (03) years of work experience in an audit sector 
or non-audit sector organization with one or more professional qualifications mentioned below.
 Fully qualified Chartered Public Finance Accountant of Association of Public Finance Accountants of Sri 
Lanka (Public sector wing of chartered accountants of Sri Lanka).
       or
 Fully qualified Chartered Accountant of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or similar 
qualification of Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) of UK or Certified Management 
Accountant of Institute of Certified Management Accountants (CMA) of Sri Lanka.
       or
 Certified Business Accountant (CBA) from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or similar 
qualification of Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) of UK or Institute of Certified 
Management accountants (cMa) of Sri Lanka.
(b) Certified Business Accountant (CBA) from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or similar 
qualification of Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) of UK or Institute of Certified 
Management accountants (cMa) of Sri Lanka with minimum one (01) year experience in an audit sector 
or non-audit sector organizations.
4. EXPERIENCE
    
Post qualification executive work experiences in the relevant field of two (02) years or more will be an added advantage 
to be considered by the interview board for the selection process.
5. bASIC  EDuCATION  QuALIfICATION 
a. Minimum of six credit (c) Passes at the GcE (O/L) examination with compulsory credit (c) Passes for English 
language, Science, Mathematics and a Simple (S) Pass and above for Sinhala / tamil language in one sitting 
(additional and optional subjects are not considered). Further, candidates who apply for technical type professions 
(aeronautical and General Engineering branch, Electronics and telecommunication Engineering branch and 
Information Technology Engineering Branch) with higher professional qualifications than required level, but with a 
Simple (S) Pass for GcE O/L English language or credit (c) Pass at the second sitting will be considered for calling 
preliminary interviews.  
Note:  Holding NVQ level 3 or above or SLQF level 1 or above qualification is considered instead of O/Ls.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2242
b. Minimum of three Simple (S) Passes at the GcE (a/L) examination from any stream in one sitting. 
Note: Holding NVQ level 4 or above or SLQF level 2 or above qualification is considered instead of A/Ls. 
c. Special Note: Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) or 
Cambridge International Ordinary Level Examinations: Six grades in one sitting are compulsory including 
Physics, chemistry, biology, Mathematics and English. the marks obtained for the grading is to be (equal or 
above) the lowest marks required for a credit pass in GcE O/Ls. candidates who are applying with Pearson Edexcel 
International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) and Cambridge International Ordinary Level 
exams without a Simple pass for Sinhala or tamil language should obtain pass grading for Sinhala or tamil language 
within 05 years of date of enlistment.  
for Pearson Edexcel /Cambridge – International Advanced Level Examinations - Must have obtained the 
minimum marks (Equal or above) which are required to obtain passes in GCE A/Ls for subjects specified separately 
for respective branches. 
6. bASIC ENTR y REQuIREmENTS
a. Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
b. civil Status : Married / Unmarried 
 
c. age  : All branches (Except for Specialist Medical Officer). 
   For male  18-33 years and for female  18-35 years as at 01 January 
2025 for the 01
st  batch for year 2025.  
   For male  18-33 years and for female  18-35 years as at 01 June 2025 for 
the 02 nd  batch for year 2025. 
   Specialist Medical Officer
   Should not be more than 40 y ears 
d. Height   Male - 165 cm (5’ 5”) and above 
      Female - 160 cm (5’ 3”) and above 
      
e. Weight : Male     - 17 < bMi < 26  
   Female - 17 < bMi < 25 
f. chest : Minimum 32” (Male)
g. colour Vision Standard : cP2
h. Visual acuity  : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (Without spectacles / contact Lenses) 
Medical / dental branches 6/18 in each eye (corrected visual acuity with 
spectacle should be 6/6 in each eye)
7. SPECIAL NOTE
a. Applications of candidates who do not fulfil the requirements of para 2, 3 and 6 will be rejected. On arrival for the 
first interview the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight are below 
the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. 
bMi =
Weight (kg) 
Height (m) 2

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2243
b. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant, Flying Officer or Pilot Officer, keeping 
with their professional qualification and experience at the discretion of the Commander of Air Force. Consultants 
and Specialist Medical Officers will be commissioned in the rank of Squadron Leader or Wing Commander, based 
on their professional qualification and experience at the discretion of the Commander of Air Force.
c. All Candidates who are selected are required to undergo a written, practical and an Officer Qualifying Test during 
the selection process.
 
d. all candidates who are selected are required to undergo a medical screening test as per Sri Lanka air Force 
Medical Standard during the selection process. 
e. All Masters, Bachelor’s Degrees and Diplomas should be recognized and confirmed by the University Grant 
commission of Sri Lanka.
f. Any candidate who has special qualifications may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered, 
even though he / she does not have any of above pre requisites, provided that he / she possess the requisite of the 
professional / special qualifications for the best interest of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
g. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
h. Official Language Requirements  Selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or 
may be made hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions in the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
j. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at such places as decided by the Commander of the Air 
Force. If at any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of 
misconduct or due to causes within his / her control, he / she will be liable to have his / her commission withdrawn 
and / or be subject to other disciplinary action in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
k. Candidates who pass medical examination will be called for the Officer Qualifying Tests. Candidates who 
successfully complete these tests will be called for the Final interview. the required number of candidates for each 
Branch will be selected according to the merit list and the final order of merit will be prepared after these interviews 
and tests. Candidates who hide any history of sicknesses, injuries or failed to declare medicines prescribed for 
particular sickness will be rejected at any time of the interview process.     
l. The conditions of service for an Officer of the Sri Lanka Air Force (Regular/Regular Reserve) are in terms of Sri 
Lanka air Force Regulations published in Gazette No. 10,240 of 27 april, 1951 and as amended from time to time. 
In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer shall hold his / her appointment during the President’s 
pleasure”. However an officer has no right to resign his / her commission unilaterally, but under Section 11 of 
the air Force act, he or she may be allowed by the President to do so. the provisions of any bond / agreement 
envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the 
provisions of Section 11 of the air Force act stated above. Retirement from the air Force will be applicable under 
conditions specified in the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.  
m.  Candidates who attend final interviews are required to declare their final decision to join the Sri Lanka Air Force at 
the interview board or just after it, in order to be given an opportunity to candidates at the Stand-by list. Candidates 
who passed the final interview and failed to inform their inability to join Sri Lanka Air Force and absent at the final 
enlistment will not be considered for any future attempt to join the Sri Lanka Air Force.
n. candidates who show poor performance and do not possess right attitude, ethical behaviour, self-conduct, at any 
level of the interview process will be subjected to rejection.   
p. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2244
q. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
r. A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He / She are provided with furnished accommodation and 
food. batman service will also be provided. 
s. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as per the 
Establishment Code. Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled to a rental allowance as 
stated in para 8. d. (11).
8. PA y  AND  ALLOWANCES
a. Followings are the consolidated pay applicable to each rank. Further, it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries 
indicated below are the initial step of particular grade.
  
Year 2024
(Annual)Rank
Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) Rs. 502,860.00
Flying Officer Rs. 571,380.00 – (30x Rs.16,020) = Rs. 1,051,980.00
Flight Lieutenant Rs. 667,500.00 – (24x Rs.16,020) = Rs. 1,051,980.00
Squadron Leader Rs. 731,580.00 – (22x Rs.16,020) = Rs. 1,084,020.00
Wing commander Rs. 751,140.00 – (17x Rs.19,560) = Rs. 1,083,660.00
 
b. Pay applicable to Medical Officers :-
Year 2024
(Annual)Grade
Preliminary Grade Rs. 651,480.00 (2x Rs. 16,020-7x16,140-2x Rs. 19,560-  16x Rs. 26,040)  
= Rs. 1,252,260.00
Grade ii Rs. 699,660.00 (6x Rs. 16,140 - 2x Rs. 19,560 - 16x Rs. 26040)              
= Rs. 1,252,260.00
Grade i Rs. 861,660.00 (15x Rs. 26,040) = Rs. 1,252,260.00
Specialist Grade Rs. 1,056,000.00 (12x Rs. 32,400) = Rs. 1,444,800.00
c. Other Allowances applicable to the Medical Officers :-
(1) Pensionable allowances :
   
 Preliminary Grade - Rs.1,700.00 per month
 Grade ii - Rs.1,700.00 per month 
 Grade i - Rs.3,400.00 per month 
 Specialist Grade  - Rs.3,400.00 per month
(2) Non Pensionable allowances : 
Preliminary Grade - Rs.2,125.00 per month
Grade ii - Rs.1,700.00 per month 
Grade i - Rs.   400.00 per month 
 (3) dat  allowances :  - Rs.70,000.00 per month

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2245
(4) Extra duty Payments :
  
Preliminary Grade - Rs.    687.00 per hour
Grade ii - Rs .   796.00 per hour
Grade i - Rs. 1,101.00 per hour 
Specialist Grade  - Rs. 1,302.00 per hour
 (5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 8. d. (17) you are to be calculated separately as applicable.
d. Service allowances: -
 (1) cost of Living allowance - Rs.17, 800.00 per month. 
 (2) Incentive Allowance - Rs. 250.00 per month after five years of service (Only Regular Service).
  
 (3) Hard allowance - Rs. 620.00 per month (Rs.20.00 per day).
 (4) additional Hard allowance - Rs. 4,380.00 per month for those serving in the Operational areas. 
 (5) Special allowance - Rs. 3,100.00 per month (Rs.100.00 will be paid for per day).
 (6) interim allowance - Rs. 1,000.00 per month. 
 (7) Uniform Upkeep allowance - air cadre and above Rs.600.00, Gp capt and bellow Rs.525.00 per month.)
 (8) batman allowance - Rs. 637.50 per month.
 (9) Ration allowance - Rs. 36,008.36 per month (Rs.1,161.56 per day).
 (10) Qualification Pay - Where applicable (up to Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11) Rent Allowance - For married Officers not in occupation of a government married quarter. – (starting from 
Rs.3, 200.00 up to Rs. 8,500.00 per month).
 (12) t elephone bill allowance – Starting from the Rank of Wing commander (Rs.  1,875.00 up to Rs. 3,750.00 
per month as applicable). 
  (13) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for Officer, spouse and children).
 (14) An additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for Officers living in Messes to travel 
from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
 (15) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (16) Free medical facilities (including for families if applicable).
 (17) Service allowance - Rs.300.00, Rs.400.00 and Rs.500.00 as applicable (Payable for the service Medical and 
Dental Officers in consideration to the number years completed in the service).
 (18) Engineering Allowances - Rs. 15,000.00 per month (Applicable for Qualified Engineering Officers only). 
 (19) chartered Engineering allowances – Starting from Rs. 15,000.00 up to Rs. 30,000.00 per month (applicable 
for the Charted Engineering Officers only).

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2246
 (20) additional Service allowance - Rs. 1,500.00 per month (applicable for the service Medical and dental 
Officers only) 
(21) 1/20 allowance - con pay x 1/20 x 3 days (Maximum) per month (applicable for the service Medical and 
Dental Officers only)
(22) Extra duty Payments - 120 Hrs (Maximum) per month (applicable for the  service Medical and dental 
Officers only)
(23) t elephone bill allowances - Specialist doctors Rs. 6,000.00 per month      
             Other doctors Rs. 3,000.00 per month.
(24) Special interim allowance - Rs.5, 000.00 per month.
(25) chartered architect allowance – Starting from Rs. 15,000.00 up to Rs. 30,000.00 per month (applicable for 
the Charted Engineering Officers only).
9. Pensions / Gratuities: - Payable in terms of the air Force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended from time 
to time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions 
are as per Widows and Orphans Pension (armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
10. INSTRuCTIONS TO APPLICANTS
a. applicants should complete all the sections of the application form correctly and in order as per the format below 
and should be forwarded under registered post cover to: “ChIEf  RECRuITING OffICER, SRI LANkA AIR 
fORCE RECRuITING Off ICE, SRI LANkA AIR fORCE TRADE TRAINING SChOOL, EkALA, 
kOTuGODA” so as to reach not later than 12.00 noon on 02 nd  December, 2024 for the 01st batch and not later 
than 12.00 noon on 30th march, 2025 for the 02 nd  batch of year 2025. applicants can also send their applications 
through the website at www.airforce.lk/joinus/apply. the envelope enclosing the application should be marked 
“APPLICATION fOR COmmISSION IN ThE ........................................................................ bRANCh”. 
Applications received after the closing date and not in accordance with the requirements of this notification will be 
rejected. 
b. candidates who are in Government Service / corporations / boards / civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through their Heads of department / corporations / boards / civil Establishments and should bear a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected. 
c. applicants can send their applications through the website www.airforce.lk/joinus/apply  or should send their 
applications by registered post  to the address mentioned in para 10 (a) above
d. Candidates will be required to produce the originals with certified photo copy of the following documents when 
summoned for the interviews or when called upon to do so:-
 (1) Birth Certificate (Certificate issued for the purpose of the education code will not be accepted).
 (2) National identity card.
 (3) Original certificates in support of the educational and professional qualifications required for the branch 
applied.
 (4) Certificates of trade / technical training / experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
 (5) Two recent certificates of character (within 06 months obtained). One of these should be from the Principal 
of the last school attended and the other from a responsible person who has knowledge of the applicant for 
more than two years or from the present employer (if employed).
 (6) Original certificates in support of sports activities and Extra Curricular activities.
 (7)  A Grama Niladhari certificate issued within six months.
  (8)  School leaving certificate.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2247
  (9)  A plain folder with file tag.
  (10) Two colour photos of 2x2½ inches certified by the Grama Niladhari.
e. applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
f. No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
g. The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
 h. candidates will be called for the Preliminary interview based on the basic requirements such as, educational 
qualifications, professional qualifications, height, age, chest etc.  provided in the  respective application form and 
candidates who provided wrong information will be rejected at the preliminary checks.  
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to be disqualified if the 
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection.
12. SELECTION  INTERvIEW
a. Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates who are 
selected from the Preliminary interview will be required to undergo a practical and medical test as may be prescribed 
by the Commander of the Air Force. The candidates who are successful after all interviews, practical test and Officer 
Qualifying Test are selected to be appeared for the final selection interview board appointed by the Ministry of 
defence. 
b. candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing of the place, time and date of such interviews. No 
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
c. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he / she is to produce his / her National identity card 
issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
d. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his / her testimonial. any form of canvassing 
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
e. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
Raup Rajapaksa,
RSP and two bars, VSV , USP, MSc (MOa) USa,
MSc (def Stu) in Mgt, Ma  in iS&S (Uk), bSc (def 
Stu),
MiM (SL), aMiE (SL), rcds, psc 
air Marshal
commander of the air Force.
air Force Headquarters,
defence Headquarters complex, 
P.O. box 594,
Sri Jayawardhanapura,
kotte.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2248
col ombo 02
APPLICATION fOR COmmISSION IN ThE SRI LANkA REGuLAR / vOLuNTEER AIR fORCE 
IN ThE .......................................................................................... bRANCh 
1. Na tionality : - ……………………... ....................................................................................................................
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Fu ll Name (as per the National identity card)  :- ……………………….............................................................
3. Na tional identity card Number :……………......................................................................................................
4. br anch applied  :- …………………………….....................................................................................................
5. Po st applied  :- …………………………………..................................................................................................
6. Per manent address  :- ………….............................................................................................................................
7. Nearest P olice Station t o Permanent address :………….. ....................................................................................
8. Nearest air F orce Camp t o Permanent address : - ................................................................................................
9. Sc hool attended  :- ...................................................................................................................................................
10. Pos tal address  :- ……………..................................................................................................................................
11. E- ma il address  :- .............................................................................................................................. ........................
12. dat e of birth: - ……………….......………. 
(age as at 01 st January 2025 for 01st batch / 01 st June 2025 for 02nd batch)
indicate the batch applying for  01st batch 2025/ 02 nd batch 2025
age years:…………Months:………….days:………………
13. He ight: - …………….. ……cm   (………..Feet ……….inches )
14. che st: - ………….. . inches (Male Only)
15. Weight: - ………... kg.
16. dis trict: - ……………………….............................................................................................................................
17. El ectorate: - ………………………………………………………………………..................................................
18 GN div ision and Number: - …………….. .............................................................................................................
19. tel ephone Number: - ……………………. …….... Whatsapp Number ...........................:..................................
20 civ il Status: - ………………..................................................................................................................................
Official use only
1 

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2249
21. Par ticulars of School and /or University and qualifications obtained: -
Nam e of School type of Examination
year and index 
Number of the  
Examination
Subjects Passed      
(including Grading)
Ordinary Level
advanced Level
General English
common General test
University Name 
University/ 
Other/Professional 
Qualifications
degree /diploma
Membership in any 
professional body
22. any  special qualification for the post: -…………………………………………………………………………. ..
23. Par ticulars of employment sin ce leaving School/ University (if applicable) : -
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of Service
From to
24. Par ticulars of Family: -
Name with initials
Nic No.
Occupation
Present Ad dressPast Present
Father:
Mother: 
Siblings
25. deta ils of blood relatives who are serving at present or previously served in armed Forces (also i f they have already
left the service, please state the reason including legal issues ).
Rank Name branch / trade Present State
26. deta ils of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc.
and standards / levels achieved): -
S/No.
2 

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2250
27. Other achievements at School / University or with outside organizations (island Ranking, Projects Completed, field
o f any o ther trainin g . (Give d etails with d ates / years e tc. )
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
28. any p r evious service in the armed Force or Volunteer Force, cadet corps or boys/Girls Scout Organization
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..…….
.
29 Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if s o give details 
and the outcome of such applications: ………………………………………………. ……………………………… 
………………………….….…………………….…….……………………………………………………………….. 
30. Have  you being convicted or bound over by a civil or Military court, if so give details  ……………………………… 
………………..………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
31. if e arlier employed in a Government department or in the Public Sector / board / corporation (including the central
bank, National bank, Universities, Joint Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) reaso ns for
termination of employment: -……………………………………………………………………………………………. 
32. Par ticulars of character certificates : -
Name designation Postal address
33. declar ation to be signed by the applicant: -
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in
respect of those candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka air Force published in the
Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
dat e………….. ……………………….. 
Signature of applicant
34. declar ation to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant:
a. i am the Parent  / Guardian of………………………………who is an applicant for St udent Officer 
vacancies in the Sri Lanka air Force and who has signed the declaration in cage 33 of the form of
application above.
b. i h ereby undertak e to b e responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a course of
training for t he following.
(1) to refund t o  t he R epublic o f  S ri L anka i n the e vent o f  t he a bove named applicant voluntarily
terminating his / her c andidature for a  c ommission during his / her period of training, all
expenses incurred up to that time, by the Republic                                                              ofSri Lanka on account of such applicant.
(2) to refund t o  t he Republic o f Sri L anka i n the e vent o f  t he above named applicant reported on by
the authorities as being unsuitable (For reasons of                                    misconduct o r  d ue t o  c auses within his /  her  o wn
control) f or t he i ssue of a commission, all  t he expenses incurred o n his / her account, b y the
Republic of S ri Lanka.
date………………………..            …………………...................  
Signature of Parent /Guardian       
3 
21. Par ticulars of School and /or University and qualifications obtained: -
Nam e of School type of Examination Number of the  
Examination
Subjects Passed      
(including Grading)
Other/Professional 
22. any  special qualification for the post: -…………………………………………………………………………. ..
23. Par ticulars of employment sin ce leaving School/ University (if applicable) : -
24. Par ticulars of Family: -
Nic No. Present Ad dress
25. deta ils of blood relatives who are serving at present or previously served in armed Forces (also i f they have already
left the service, please state the reason including legal issues ).
26. deta ils of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc.
and standards / levels achieved): -
S/No. description School Provincial National international
2 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2251
27. Other achievements at School / University or with outside organizations (island Ranking, Projects Completed, field
o f any o ther trainin g . (Give d etails with d ates / years e tc. )
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
28. any p r evious service in the armed Force or Volunteer Force, cadet corps or boys/Girls Scout Organization
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..…….
.
29 Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if s o give details 
and the outcome of such applications: ………………………………………………. ……………………………… 
………………………….….…………………….…….……………………………………………………………….. 
30. Have  you being convicted or bound over by a civil or Military court, if so give details  ……………………………… 
………………..………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
31. if e arlier employed in a Government department or in the Public Sector / board / corporation (including the central
bank, National bank, Universities, Joint Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) reaso ns for
termination of employment: -……………………………………………………………………………………………. 
32. Par ticulars of character certificates : -
33. declar ation to be signed by the applicant: -
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in
respect of those candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka air Force published in the
Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
dat e………….. ……………………….. 
Signature of applicant
34. declar ation to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant:
a. i am the Parent  / Guardian of………………………………who is an applicant for St udent Officer 
vacancies in the Sri Lanka air Force and who has signed the declaration in cage 33 of the form of
application above.
b. i h ereby undertak e to b e responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a course of
training for t he following.
(1) to refund t o  t he R epublic o f  S ri L anka i n the e vent o f  t he a bove named applicant voluntarily
terminating his / her c andidature for a  c ommission during his / her period of training, all
expenses incurred up to that time, by the Republic                                                              ofSri Lanka on account of such applicant.
(2) to refund t o  t he Republic o f Sri L anka i n the e vent o f  t he above named applicant reported on by
the authorities as being unsuitable (For reasons of                                    misconduct o r  d ue t o  c auses within his /  her  o wn
control) f or t he i ssue of a commission, all  t he expenses incurred o n his / her account, b y the
Republic of S ri Lanka.
date………………………..            …………………...................  
Signature of Parent /Guardian       
3 
Name :………………………………………………………………………………………………..
(in block capitals)
address: ………………………………………………………………………………………………..
date………………………..                                                             …………………...................                                                                  
                                                                                                          Signature of First Witness
Name :………………………………………………………………………………………………..
(in block capitals)
address: ………………………………………………………………………………………………..
                                                                                                               
date………………………..                                                             …………………...................                                                                  
                                                                                                          Signature of Second Witness
Name :………………………………………………………………………………………………..
(in block capitals)
address: ………………………………………………………………………………………………..
4
10-228/2
SRI  LANkA  AIR  fORCE
Sri Lanka Regular v olunteer Air force Airmen/ Airwomen v acancies
1. Vacancies exist in the Regular / V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka air Force for airmen / airwomen in the trades given 
below and the required minimum and specific qualifications are stated below.
bASIC EDuCATION QuALIfICATIONS
2. Six (06) Passes at the GcE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings, including a Simple (S) pass in Sinhala or 
tamil language. 
SPECIfIC QuALIfICATIONS
3. The specific qualification as per trades are as follows:

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2252
a. Aeronautical Engineering Trades (male/ female) - Regular 
           
 (1) Airframe Technician
 (2) Aero Engine Technician
 (3) Aero Electrical & Instrument Technician
 (4) Safety Equipment Technician
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings, including Simple (S) passes in 
Sinhala or t amil, English language. Furthermore, a credit  (c) pass for Mathematics or Science is mandatory.
     or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings including English, 
Mathematics, Physics, chemistry and biology. Furthermore, a grading having marks equivalent or higher than a 
credit pass in GcE O/L for Physics, chemistry, biology or Mathematics is mandatory.
     and
While inducting personnel to aero Electrical & instrument t rade, priority would be given to personnel who 
have successfully completed a two (02) years fulltime National Certificate Course in Engineering Craft Practice 
(Electronics / Electrical) at a t echnical college recognized by the Ministry of V ocational and t echnical t raining 
or equivalent.  Further, candidates with NVQ level qualification / training on mechanical subjects from a reputed 
institute and work experience would be an added advantage while considering for air Frame and aero Engine 
trades.
b. General Engineering Trades (male) 
(1) Armament mechanic - Regular
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including simple (S) passes in 
Sinhala / t amil, English language, Mathematics / Science. 
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings. Passes are compulsory 
for English, all Science subjects (Physics, Chemistry, and Biology) or Mathematics.   
      
(2) motor Transport mechanic - Regular
(3) General mechanic- Regular
(4) Surface Technician - Regular
(5) Sheet metal Worker - Regular
(6) Technical Wood Technician - Regular
(7) Aircraft Welder - Regular
(8) Turner - Regular
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) passes in 
Sinhala / t amil, Mathematics / Science.  
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings. Passes are compulsory 
for English, all Science subjects (Physics, Chemistry, and Biology) or Mathematics.  
and
Possession of NVQ Level qualification / Training from a Technical college or reputed institute and work 
experience in relevant fields will be an added advantage.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2253
(9)  Operator motor Transport– Regular/v olunteer
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) pass in 
Sinhala / t amil language.
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
and
Priority will be given to candidates who possess a valid driving licence for light vehicle or heavy vehicle. 
c. Electronics, Telecommunication & Information Technology Engineering Trades - Regular
 
(1) Air Radio Technician (male/ female)
(2) Telecommunication Technician (male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) for 
passes in Sinhala / Tamil, English language, Science and Mathematics subjects.
   or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings including English. 
Grades are compulsory for all Science subjects (Physics, Chemistry and Biology), Mathematics and the marks 
obtained for a grading to be (equal or above) the lowest marks required for a simple pass in GcE O/Ls.
(3) Antenna Tower Technician (male)
(a) Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) 
pass in Sinhala / t amil language 
or 
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
     and
ability to work on high altitude towers.
Skill of handling heavy duty tools will be an added advantage.  
(4) Computer Technician (male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Sinhala / Tamil 
and English language. 
or
 Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings.
and

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2254
Six months or more than full time information technology course (Network / Software developer, Software 
and Hardware repairing) or up to one year part time information technology course at Government institute 
or Government registered private institute will be an added advantage.
d. medical Trades (male / female) – Regular/v olunteer
Nursing Assistant 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) pass in English 
language and Credit (C) passes in Sinhala / Tamil, Mathematics/Science and one other subject. 
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge International 
Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings. Three Grades are 
compulsory including grades for all Science subjects (Physics, Chemistry, and Biology) or Mathematics and one other 
subject. The marks obtained for a grading to be (equal or above) the lowest marks required for a credit pass in GCE 
O/Ls.
Having passes at the GcE (a/L) Examination from Science /maths /Agriculture Stream in one sitting will be an 
added advantage for selection and a qualification for future advanced training under the Ministry of Health.
 
e. Dental Assistant (male/ female) - Regular
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) pass in English 
language and Credit passes in Sinhala / Tamil language, Mathematics, Science and one other subject. 
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge International 
Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings. Grades are compulsory 
for all Science subjects (Physics, Chemistry, and Biology), Mathematics and for one other subject. The marks obtained 
for a grading to be (equal or above) the lowest marks required for a credit pass in GcE O/Ls.
      
Having three passes at the GcE (a/L) Examination in any stream preferably in bio Stream in one sitting will be an 
added advantage.  
.  
f. Administrative Trades - Regular
(1) Administrative Assistant (male / female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) passes in 
Sinhala / tamil, English languages and Mathematics 
or 
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects including English and Mathematics in not more than 
two sittings.
Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office package) will be an added qualification.
(2) Accounts Assistant (male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) passes 
in Sinhala / tamil and English languages and a credit in Mathematics / business & account Studies
      or
  Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings. Grade 
is compulsory for Mathematics or accounts and the marks obtained for a grading to be (equal or above) the 
lowest marks required for a credit pass in GcE O/Ls 
Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office package) will be an added qualification.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2255
 g.  Operations Trades 
(1) Operations Air (Air Traffic Services Assistant and Air Defence System Operator) – Male/Female - Regular
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S)  pass in 
Sinhala / tamil language and a credit pass in English language.
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings. Grade is compulsory 
for English language and the marks obtained for a grading to be (equal or above) the lowest marks required for a 
credit pass in GcE O/Ls.
(2) fire fighter (male) - Regular
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) passes 
in Sinhala / tamil and English languages        
      or 
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings. 
A valid heavy vehicle driving license will be an added qualification. 
(3) Operations Ground (male) – Regular/v olunteer
(4) Dog handler (male) – Regular
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) pass in 
Sinhala / tamil language  
or 
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
(5) Agro Assistant (male) – v olunteer (Non uniform)
Appeared for GCE (O/L) Examination or Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary 
Education (GcSE) exam or cambridge international Ordinary Level exams.
and
Possession of NVQ Level Qualification on Agriculture, Agriculture related  areas (Nursery management, In 
house cultivation, budding & grafting, bee keeping and Food processing) and Livestock management courses 
will be an added advantage.
Working experience to operate combine harvester, Four wheel tractor, Rice Mill processing machines and other 
procedures.
Possession of special skills in Welding, Plumbing, Masonry work, electrical wiring,Vehicle tinkering & painting, 
Cold room trouble shooting and bearing heavy  vehicle driving license will be considered as added qualifications.
h. Logistic Trades – Regular/v olunteer
(1) Logistic Assistant (male/female) 
    
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S)  passes 
in Sinhala / tamil and English languages and a credit in Mathematics / Science / business & account Studies. 
 or

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2256
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings. A 
Grade is compulsory for All science subjects (Physics, Chemistry and Biology) or Mathematics or Accounts and 
the marks obtained for a grading to be (equal or above) the lowest marks required for a credit pass in GcE O/Ls.
     
Knowledge on computer (Microsoft Office package) will be an added qualification.
(2) Catering Assistant (male) 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) pass 
in Sinhala / tamil language 
 or 
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
(3) Ground Steward (male/female) 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) pass 
in Sinhala /t amil language 
 or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
    
 Priority will be given to candidates who have experience and professional qualification in the field of hospitality 
from Hotels authorised by the tourist board. (Ex: Waiter / barman / House keeper / Room boy / Room attendant 
/ Room Steward)
j.   Provost (Air force police) (male /female) - Regular
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) passes in 
Sinhala / tamil, Mathematics and English language 
 or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE)  exam or Cambridge International 
Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including  English and Mathematics in not more than two sittings. 
Priority will be given to males those who measure 5’ 8” and female those who measure 5’ 6” or above in height 
respectively. 
k. Performing Art Trades (male /female) - Regular
(1) Dancer 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) pass in 
Sinhala / tamil language.
or 
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
Ability to perform traditional and western Dancing styles. Suitable figure for dancing, ability for folk singing, 
playing dancing instrument, Sound controller and capability for  make-up will be considered as special qualification.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2257
(2) musician 
Passed in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) pass in 
Sinhala / t amil language.
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.  
ability to play western / oriental instruments, singing, reading & writting western / oriental music notations and 
passed music subjects (western / eastern) at the GCE (O/L)  exam, passed in music graded theory or practical 
exam, member of the school Western / Cadet  / Brass Band, will be considered as special qualifications.
l. Physical Training Instructor (male) - Regular
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) pass in 
Sinhala / t amil language 
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge International 
Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.  
National Level sports achievements will be special qualifications at the selection. All candidates who are selected 
though preliminary interviews are required to pass the special physical fitness test.
m. Civil Engineering Trades (male) - Regular
(1) mechanical Technician   
    
(2) Construction Equipment Technician
(3) Electrical Technician 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) pass 
in Sinhala / t amil and English language 
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings. 
Possession of NVQ Level qualification / Technical college certificate and work experience in relevant fields is 
an added advantage.
 (4) Aluminium fabricator Technician 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) pass 
in Sinhala / t amil language 
 or 
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.  
Possession of NVQ Level qualification / Technical college certificate and work experience in relevant fields is 
an added advantage.

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2258
DIRECT ENTR y  AIRmEN/AIRWOmEN v ACANCIES EXISTING IN ThE SRI LANkA REGuLAR/ 
v OLuNTEER AIR fORCE
4. Educational and Professional Qualifications Required:-
a. General Engineering Trades - (male)
(1) motor Transport mechanic - v olunteer
 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / t amil language. 
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.  
and
completed a training programme related to automobile (automobile, auto Electrical, automobile auto 
Electronic / automobile air conditioning Mechanic) in a government or government registered reputed 
institute.
or
Possession of National V ocational Qualification Level II (NVQ Level II) or above.
or
Minimum one year post qualified experience in automobile / vehicle maintenance. 
(2) Aircraft Welder –v olunteer
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / t amil language. 
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
and
Possession of National V ocational Qualification Level II (NVQ Level II) or above in relevant field .
or
Minimum six month post qualified experience in maintenance field.
(3) Surface Technician  -v olunteer
 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / t amil language 
 or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
and
Possession of National V ocational Qualification Level II (NVQ Level II) or above in relevant field.
or
Minimum six month post qualified experience in field.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2259
(4) Air Photographer – Regular/v olunteer
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / t amil language 
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
and
Possession of National V ocational Qualification Level II (NVQ Level II) or above in relevant field or follow 
certificate course for related field at outside organization.  
or
completed a training programme related to Photography, Videography, Video/Photo Editing and drone 
operation in a government or government registered reputed institute. 
or
Minimum six month post qualified experience in relevant field.
(5) Turner –v olunteer
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / t amil language.
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
and
completed a training programme related to machinery works in a government or government registered 
reputed institute. 
or
Minimum six month post qualified experience for lathe machine works at outside organization.
(6) Sheet metal Worker –v olunteer
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / t amil language
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.
and
completed a training programme related to metal fabricate in a government or government registered reputed 
institute. 
or
Minimum six month post qualified experience in field.
(7) Technical Wood Technician - v olunteer
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / t amil language
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2260
and
Possession of National V ocational Qualification Level II (NVQ Level II) or above in relevant field.
or
completed a training programme related to wood works in a government or government registered reputed 
institute. 
or
Minimum six month post qualified experience in field
b. Electronics, Telecommunication & Information Technology Engineering Trades (Regular)
(1) Air Radio Technician (male/female)
(2) Telecommunication Technician (male)
   
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) passes 
in Sinhala / t amil and English language with a credit (c) pass for Mathematics / Science 
 or 
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings. A 
Grade is compulsory for Science subjects (Physics, Chemistry and Biology) or Mathematics and the marks 
obtained for a grading to be (equal or above) the lowest marks required for a credit pass in GcE O/Ls. 
and
Successful completion of two years fulltime National Certificate Course in Engineering Craft Practice 
(Electronics / t elecommunications) at a t echnical college recognized by the Ministry of V ocational and 
Technical Training should be equalled to National V ocational Qualification Level IV (NVQ Level IV)
or 
Successful completion of three-year National Certificate of Technology (NCT) (Electronics / Electrical) at a 
t echnical college recognized by the Ministry of V ocational and t echnical t raining.
03. Computer Technician (male/female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Sinhala / Tamil 
and English language. 
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings.
and
Six months or more than full time information t echnology course (Network / Software developer, Software 
and Hardware repairing) or up to one-year part time information technology course at Government institute 
or Government registered private institute. 
Two years working experience in relevant field. 
c. Civil Engineering Trades -Regular
(1) forman (Civil/Electrical/mechanical) - (male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / t amil and English language 
or 

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2261
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge 
International Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings.
and
Successful completion of National Certificate in Technology NCT (Civil/Electrical/Mechanical Engineering) 
Three - year part time NCT certificate or any other equivalent qualifications awarded by Government Technical 
colleges. 
and
Two years working experience in relevant field. 
 (2) Draughtsman (male/female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Simple (S) pass in 
Sinhala / t amil and English language.
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge International 
Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings.
Successful completion of National Certificate in Engineering Draughtsmanship – The candidates who possess the 
one-year certificate (full time) in Engineering Draughtsmanship. Two years working experience in relevant field. 
d. Administrative Trade (male /female) –v olunteer
Administrative Assistant (Stenographers)
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including a Credit (C) pass in 
Sinhala / t amil / English language. 
       
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge International 
Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including a Credit (C) pass in Sinhala / Tamil / English language in not 
more than two sittings.
and
If the post applied for is ‘Sinhala Stenographer’ such applicant should have a credit pass for the subject of Sinhala in 
GcE O/L.
If the post applied for is ‘English Stenographer’ such applicant should have a credit pass for the subject of English in 
GcE O/L.
 
If the post applied for is ‘Tamil Stenographer’ such applicant should have a credit pass for the subject of Tamil in GCE 
O/L.
candidates should have successfully followed and passed a stenography and typing course at the National youth 
Services council, National apprentice and industrial t raining authority, t echnical college or at a Government 
Registered training institution and minimum of 06 months’ experience in relevant field.
e.  Audit Trade (male)-Regular
Audit Assistant 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) passes in 
Sinhala / t amil and English languages and credit in Mathematics/ business & account Studies  
or 

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2262
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge International 
Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects including English in not more than two sittings. Grade is compulsory 
for Mathematics or accounts and the marks obtained for a grading to be (equal or above) the lowest marks required 
for a credit pass in GcE O/Ls. 
and
Simple (S) passes in three subjects at the GCE (A/L) examination in Commerce Stream.   
with
completion of stage i examination of association of accounting technicians of Sri Lanka (aat  SL).
or
completion of stage ii examination of association of accounting technician of Sri Lanka (aat).
or
Completion of first year examination in Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA) obtained from Government 
institution or Government registered private institution.
or
Completion of first year examination in Business Finance (HNDBF) obtained from Government institution or 
Government registered private institution.
and
Minimum six (06) months post qualified experience in field of Auditing and Accounting. 
f. medical Trades (male/ female) - v olunteer
Nursing Assistant 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) for passes in 
Sinhala / Tamil, English language, Science and Mathematics subjects.
or
Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge International 
Ordinary Level exams: Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings including English. Grades are compulsory 
for all Science subjects (Physics, Chemistry and Biology) , Mathematics and the marks obtained for a grading to be 
(equal or above) the lowest marks required for a simple pass in GcE O/Ls.
and
should have undergone nursing training for a duration of not less than 01 year, including clinical training, from a 
reputed Government or Private Medical Institution and possess necessary paper qualifications to prove same   or 
possess NVQ Level 3 or above Nursing Assistant certificate
g. Operational Trades (male/ female) – v olunteer
Operations Ground (beautician) 
Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings including Simple (S) passes in 
Sinhala / tamil language 
 or
 Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam or Cambridge International 
Ordinary Level exams:  Passes in 06 subjects in not more than two sittings.  
 and 
The qualification of NVQ Level IV with minimum one (01) year experience in 
beautician trade obtained from an authorized training institute.

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2263
5. Special Note :-
a. Candidates who are applying with Pearson Edexcel International General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE)
or cambridge international Ordinary Level exams without a Simple pass for Sinhala or tamil language should obtain
pass grading for Sinhala or tamil language within 05 years from the date of enlistment.
b. Holding NVQ level 3 or above or SLQF level 1 or above certificate is considered instead of O/Ls and holding
NVQ level 4 or above or SLQF level 2 or above is considered instead of a/Ls only for Direct Entry Candidates
enlistment.
6. Other  Requirements :
a. Candidates must fulfil the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular/ V olunteer Air Force.
(1) Nationality  -  Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(2)  age -  a s at 01 January 2025 - 01 st  batch
 as at 01 June 2025 – 02 nd  batch
Regular
Male -  Not less than 18 years and not more than 23 years
Female  - Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years 
V olunteer
Male - Not less than 18 years and not more than 28 years
Male - Not less than 18 years and not more than 32 years (Only for agro asst- V olunteer)
Female  - Not less than 18 years and not more than 26 years
direct Entry (Regular / V olunteer) 
Male - Not less than 18 years and not more than 28 years
Female  - Not less than 18 years and not more than 26 years
(3) Height - 5 feet 4 inches (162 cm) and above (Male)
     5 feet 2 inches (157 cm) and above (Female)
(4) W eight : -  17 < bMi < 26 (Male)
17 < bMi < 25 (Female)
(5)  colour Vision Standard: cP2
(6) V isual acuity: 6/6 each eye (without spectacles and lenses)
(7)  c hest: 32” (Male)
(8)  c ivil Status:  Regular - Unmarried
 V olunteer and direct Entry  -  Married/Unmarried
(a) Regular airmen / airwomen candidates must be unmarried and not allowed to marry until the completion
of four years from the date of enlistment and until one year after the completion of the basic trade
training course and whichever is later.
(b)  t he airmen / airwomen who are enlisted above 25 years are eligible for marriage after 01 year period
from enlistment and after completion of basic combat course and basic trade training course.
(c) Regular /V olunteer/ direct Entry airmen / airwomen are eligible for marriage after 01 year period from
enlistment and after completion of basic combat course.
(d) (d) Dancer Trade Airwomen are not allowed to marry until the completion of five (5) Years from the date
of enlistment.
7. Candidates who do not possess the required educational qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 03, 04 and
body Mass index = Weight ( kg)     
Height 2 (m)

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2264
06 will be rejected.  On arrival for the first interview the height, weight, chest and vision will be measured.  Candidates 
whose height, weight, chest and vision are below the standards specified in the Gazette Notification  and who have no 
exceptional skills, will not be interviewed. Any candidate who has special ability / qualifications may at the discretion 
of the 
c ommander of the a ir Force be considered, even though he / she does not have the pre requisite on any of above, 
provided that he / she possess the requisite of the Professional / Special qualifications for the best interest of the Sri 
Lanka 
a ir Force.
8. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
9. Conditions of Service:-
a. t he candidate is to initially enlist in the a ir Force as an a irman / a irwoman on a regular or volunteer engagement
and will undergo a b asic c ombat t raining c ourse. On successful completion of training (the duration of which will
depend on the trade) he / she will be enlisted as an a irman/ a irwoman to the respective trade.
b. a irmen / a irwomen will be required to undergo training at a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the
c ommander of the a ir Force in consultation with the Ministry of d efence.
c. During the period of training as Airmen / Airwomen and thereafter, personnel will be subject to Air Force Law.
d. Every a irmen / a irwomen will be provided all items of uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
e. d uring the period of training, a irmen / a irwomen will be accommodated in a ir Force Messes and will be provided
with food.
f. i n the event of an a irman / a irwoman voluntarily terminating his / her candidature during training, the parent or
guardian will be required to refund to the d emocratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka, the all expenses incurred up
to that time by the d emocratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such a irman / a irwoman.
g. i f at any time during his / her course, an a irman / a irwoman is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable for
reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his / her control to qualify for a committing such act, his / her parent
or guardian will be required to refund to the Sri Lanka a ir Force all expenses incurred on his / her training and will 
be required to enter into an agreement to this effect with the Commander of the Air Force acting on behalf of the 
Government of Sri Lanka.
h.Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 32 of the application form in respect of sub paragraphs (f)
and (g) above and forward them together with the application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter in to an
agreement subsequently in this form with the 
d emocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment
of these candidates as a irmen / a irwomen.
j. Candidates who possess the requirement as per para 1 to 6 will be called for the Preliminary Interview and if successful
will be called for Medical Examinations. 
a ll selected candidates will be medically and physically examined under
Sri Lanka a ir Force arrangements to check the suitability in par with the Sri Lanka a ir Force Medical employment
fitness standards. Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be called for the Final Interview process.
t he required number of candidates per trade will be selected according to merit at these interviews and tests.
k. a  single a irman is required to live in the a irmen barracks. He / She is provided with furnished accommodation and
food.  a  single a irman’s ration allowance is paid to the Mess.
l. a  married a irman / a irwoman may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as
applicable to public servants.
m. a ll a irmen / a irwomen are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
n. a ll a irmen/ a irwomen are governed by the a ir Force a ct and orders issued from time to time.

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2265
10. Terms of Engagement : - 
 
a. Regular Airmen and Airwomen. Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of aircraftsman 
/ aircraftwomen / Leading aircraftsman / corporal in the Regular air Force and shall be required to serve for twelve 
(12) years in which eight (08) years will have to be served continuously whilst serving a further four (04) years in the 
Regular air Force (Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable airmen / airwomen to extend for 
further service on completion of eight years of service on the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka air Force.  
b.  v olunteer Airmen/Airwomen Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of aircraftsman /
Aircraftswoman in the V olunteer Air Force and shall be required to serve for five (05) years. Opportunities exist for 
suitable to extend for further service on completion of five (05) years of service on the discretion of the Commander 
of the Sri Lanka air Force.
c.  Operations Ground (beautician) Agro Asst (Non uniform) - v olunteer Airmen/Airwomen Selected candidates 
will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of aircraftsman /aircraftswoman in the V olunteer air Force and shall be 
required to serve for two (02) years. Opportunities exist for suitable to extend for further service on completion of two 
(02) years of service on the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka air Force.
11. Official Language Requirements. the selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or 
may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
12. Pay and Allowances. 
a. it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries including allowances indicated below are the initial step of particular 
rank.
Rank con Pay 
Rs.
total allowances + Ration 
allowance 
Rs.
Gross salary
Rs.
air craftsman 29,540.00 27,250.00+29,993.43 86,783.43
Leading aircraftsman 30,440.00 27,250.00+29,993.43 87,683.43
corporal 31,340.00 27,250.00+29,993.43 88,583.43
Note: Married living-out personnel are entitled for ration allowance of approximately Rs. 30,000.00 and applicable 
rent ceiling.
b. Pensions / Gratuities. Payable in terms of the air Force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended from 
time to time. all airmen/ airwomen are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (armed Force) Scheme. 
Rate of contributions are as per Widows and Orphans Pension (armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
13. Instructions to Applicants. 
a. applicants should complete all the sections of the application form correctly and in order as per the format below 
and should be forwarded under registered post cover to: “ChIEf  RECRuITING OffICER, SRI LANkA AIR 
fORCE TRADE TRAINING SChOOL, EkALA, kOTuGODA” so as to reach not later than 12.00 noon 
on 02
nd  December 2024 for the 01 st  batch and not later than 12.00 noon on 30 th  march 2025 for the 02 nd  batch 
of year 2025. the envelope enclosing the application should be marked “APPLICATION fOR REGuLAR / 
v OLuNTEER AIRmEN / AIRWOmEN” on the top left corner. applicants can also send their applications 
through the website at www.airforce.lk/joinus/apply. applications received at Sri Lanka air Force, kotugoda. after 
closing date and not in accordance with the requirement of this notification and not in registered post will not be 
considered.

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2266
 
b. candidates who are in Government Service / corporations / boards / civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through their Heads of departments / corporations / boards / civil Establishments and should bear a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
c. applicants who have internet facilities can send their applications through the website www.airforce.lk/joinus/
apply and for applicants who do not have such facilities should send their applications by registered post  to the 
address mentioned in para 13(a) above. 
d. Candidates will be required to produce the originals with certified photo copies of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon to do so:-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued for the purpose of the education code will not be 
accepted).
 (2) National identity card.
 (3) Original certificates in support of the educational and professional qualifications required for the trade applied. 
 (4) Certificates of trade / technical training and / or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
 (5) Two recent certificates of character (within 06 months obtained). One of these should be from the Principal 
of the last school attended and the other from a responsible person who has knowledge of the applicant for 
more than two years or from the present employer (if employed).
 (6) Original certificates in support of sports activities and extracurricular activities.
 (7)  A Grama Niladhari certificate issued within six (06) months.
 (8)  School leaving certificate.
 (9)  A plain folder with file tag.
 (10) Two colour photos of 2x2½ inches certified by the Grama Niladari.
  
e. applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
f. No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
 g. The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
 h. candidates will be called for the Preliminary interview based on the basic requirements such as, educational 
qualifications, height, age, chest etc.  Provided in the respective application form and candidates who provided 
wrong information will be rejected at the preliminary checks.
14. Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates selected 
from the Preliminary interview will be required to undergo a medical test as may be prescribed by the commander of 
the air Force. candidates considered suitable for the interview will be required to appear for an interview at their own 
expense before an air Force Recruiting board. Such candidates will be informed individually of place, date and time. 
15. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews, he is to produce the National identity card. candidates 
who do not have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of the accepted identification. However, no 
candidates will be enlisted without the National identity card.
16.     all candidates who are selected is required to undergo a medical screening test and a Physical Fitness test as per Sri 
Lanka air Force Medical and Fitness Standard during the selection process.
17. the required number of candidates per trade will be selected according to marks obtained at these interviews and tests.

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2267
18. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him / her testimonial. any form of canvassing 
or attempt to influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidates
19. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
Raup Rajapaksa,
RSP and two bars, VSV , USP, MSc (MOa) USa, 
MSc (def Stu) in Mgt, Ma  in iS&S (Uk), bSc (def Stu),
MiM (SL), aMiE (SL), rcds, psc 
air Marshal
commander of the air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka air Force ,
PO box 594,
defence Headquarters complex,
Sri Jayawardhanapura,
kotte.
APPLICATION fOR AIRmEN /AIRWOmEN IN ThE
……………………………TRADE Of ThE SRI LANkA REGuLAR/ vOLuNTEER AIR fORCE
trade Preferences:
1. Nation ality: - …………………………………………………………………………. 
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full Na me (as per the National identity card): - ………………………………….…......................
……………………………………………………………………………………......................…….. 
3. Nation al identity card Number: - ……………...................... ………………………………………... 
4. Perm anent address: -……………...................………………………………………………………... 
5. Posta l address: - …………………......................………………………………….......
6. date of birth: - ……………….......………. 
(age as at 01 January 2025 for 01 st batch / 01 June 2025  for 02 nd batch )
indicate the batch applying for  01st batch 2025/ 02 nd batch 2025
age years:…………Months:………….days:……………… 
7. Heigh t: - …………cm    (……….. Feet ………. inches)
8. chest :- ………. i nches (Male)
9. Weight :- ……..kg
10. Near est Police Station to P ermanent address: - ………………........................…………………… … 
11. Nearest air F orce Camp t o Pe rmanent ad dress:-… …………….......................………………………
12. distric t: -………………………….......................…………………………………….……….………
13. Electo rate: -……… …………….......................…………………………….…………………………
14. Gram a Niladhari division: - ……..………………….......................……………………….………… 
15. telephone Nu mber: - … …………. Whatsapp N o .: .....................…… Email:…………………….
16. Marri ed or Single: - …………………………… …….......................…………………………….……
17. Gender : - ………………………………….......................……………………………………
18. Scho ols attended  :-  Primary - ………………………………………………..................………….. 
Secondary - ……………………………………………………......................…..
19. Partic ulars of School qualifications obtained: -
Official use only
1 

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2268
Nam e of School type of Examination
year and index 
Number of the  
Examination
Subjects p assed
(in cluding Gr ading)
Ordinary Level
advanced Level
Other/Professional 
Q ualifications
20. any  special qualification for the post:- …………………………….......................…………………..
21. Par ticulars of employment since leaving School (if applicable) : -
Nam e and addr ess of E mployer Nature of E mployment Period of Service
From to
22. Par ticulars of Family: -
Nam e with initials Nic No.
Occupation
Present addressPast Present
Father:
Mother: 
Siblings
23. details o f  b lood r elatives who  are serving at p resent o r  p reviously served i n armed F orces (also i f  t hey have
24. details o f  c urrent achievements i n  s ports ( Give details o f  t eams a nd competitions p articipated with d ates / years
etc. and standards /  l evels achieved):-
25. Other achievements at S chool at S chool or w ith outside org anizations ( Give d etails with d ates / years
etc.):- ………………………………............................................…………………………………….
26. any p revious service in t he a rmed F orce or V olunteer F orce, c adet c orps or boys/ G irls Scouting
Organizations:- ………………………………..... ..........................................…………………………………
27. Have you applied earlier t o join t he Sri Lanka air F orce or any  o f  t h e armed S ervices o r  Police, i f  s o  g ive details
and the outcome o f  s uch a pplications:-… ……………………..........................................……
28. Have you being c onvicted or bound over b y  a  c ivil or military c ourt, or a ny pending c riminal or c ivil c ourt c ases
against you? if s o  g ive d etails:-… ...........................................................................................
2 
already left the service,  please state the reason including legal issues).
APPLICATION fOR AIRmEN /AIRWOmEN IN ThE
……………………………TRADE Of ThE SRI LANkA REGuLAR/ vOLuNTEER AIR fORCE
trade Preferences:
1. Nation ality: - …………………………………………………………………………. 
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full Na me (as per the National identity card): - ………………………………….…......................
……………………………………………………………………………………......................…….. 
3. Nation al identity card Number: - ……………...................... ………………………………………... 
4. Perm anent address: -……………...................………………………………………………………... 
5. Posta l address: - …………………......................………………………………….......
6. date of birth: - ……………….......………. 
(age as at 01 January 2025 for 01 st batch / 01 June 2025  for 02 nd batch )
indicate the batch applying for  01st batch 2025/ 02 nd batch 2025
age years:…………Months:………….days:……………… 
7. Heigh t: - …………cm    (……….. Feet ………. inches)
8. chest :- ………. i nches (Male)
9. Weight :- ……..kg
10. Near est Police Station to P ermanent address: - ………………........................…………………… … 
11. Nearest air F orce Camp t o Pe rmanent ad dress:-… …………….......................………………………
12. distric t: -………………………….......................…………………………………….……….………
13. Electo rate: -……… …………….......................…………………………….…………………………
14. Gram a Niladhari division: - ……..………………….......................……………………….………… 
15. telephone Nu mber: - … …………. Whatsapp N o .: .....................…… Email:…………………….
16. Marri ed or Single: - …………………………… …….......................…………………………….……
17. Gender : - ………………………………….......................……………………………………
18. Scho ols attended  :-  Primary - ………………………………………………..................………….. 
Secondary - ……………………………………………………......................…..
19. Partic ulars of School qualifications obtained: -
1 

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2269
Nam e of School type of Examination Number of the  Subjects p assed
(in cluding Gr ading)
20. any  special qualification for the post:- …………………………….......................…………………..
21. Par ticulars of employment since leaving School (if applicable) : -
Nam e and addr ess of E mployer Nature of E mployment
22. Par ticulars of Family: -
Nam e with initials Nic No. Present address
23. details o f  b lood r elatives who  are serving at p resent o r  p reviously served i n armed F orces (also i f  t hey have
Rank Name branch/trade Present State
24. details o f  c urrent achievements i n  s ports ( Give details o f  t eams a nd competitions p articipated with d ates / years
etc. and standards /  l evels achieved):-
S/No. description School Provincial National international
25. Other achievements at S chool at S chool or w ith outside org anizations ( Give d etails with d ates / years
etc.):- ………………………………............................................…………………………………….
26. any p revious service in t he a rmed F orce or V olunteer F orce, c adet c orps or boys/ G irls Scouting
Organizations:- ………………………………..... ..........................................…………………………………
27. Have you applied earlier t o join t he Sri Lanka air F orce or any  o f  t h e armed S ervices o r  Police, i f  s o  g ive details
and the outcome o f  s uch a pplications:-… ……………………..........................................……
28. Have you being c onvicted or bound over b y  a  c ivil or military c ourt, or a ny pending c riminal or c ivil c ourt c ases
against you? if s o  g ive d etails:-… ...........................................................................................
2 
already left the service,  please state the reason including legal issues).
29. if e arlier e mployed  in a  Government department or in t he P ublic S ector / board / corporation ( including the central
30. Particulars of c haracter certificates: -
Name designation Postal address
declaration t o  b e signed b y  t he applicant:- i  d eclare o n my honour t hat a n swers g iven t o  t he above questions are
true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have read and understood the procedure which will be 
adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are selected for Sri Lanka Air Force 
published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
date………….. ……………………….. 
Signature o f applicant.
32. declaration to be s igned by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant:
a. i am t he Parent / Guardian o f………………………………who i s  an applicant for a membership i n the S ri
Lanka Air Force and who has signed the declaration in cage 31 of the form of application above. 
 …………………………...…. 
Signature of P arent / Guardian .
date:……………………….. 
Name:………………………………………… …………………………………………….………………. 
(in block capitals)
address:………………………………………………………………………………...…………………… 
…………………………….. 
Signature o f  First Witness.
date:……………………….. 
Name:………………………………………… ………………………………….…………………………… 
(in block capitals)
address:………..……………………………………………………………………………………………… 
……………………………….. 
Signature of S econd Witness.
dat e:……………………….. 
Name:…………………………….…… ……………………………………………………………………… 
(in block capitals)
address:…………………………………………………………………………....………………………….. 
3 
Bank, National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc) reasons for termination
of employment:-............................................................................... 
31.
I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a course of training for 
the following. 
b.
To refund to the Republic of Sri Lan ka in the even t of the above named applicant voluntarily 
terminating his /her candidature during his / her period of training all expenses incurred up to that time 
by the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such applicant.
To refund to the Republic of Sri Lank a in the event of the above named applicant reported o n by the 
authorities as being unsuitable (Fo r reasons of misconduct or du e to causes within his /her own 
control) for the continuation of service all the expenses incurred on his / her account by the Republic 
of Sri Lanka. 
 (1)
 (2)

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2024
2270
29. if e arlier e mployed  in a  Government department or in t he P ublic S ector / board / corporation ( including the central
30. Particulars of c haracter certificates: -
declaration t o  b e signed b y  t he applicant:- i  d eclare o n my honour t hat a n swers g iven t o  t he above questions are
true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have read and understood the procedure which will be 
adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are selected for Sri Lanka Air Force 
published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
date………….. ……………………….. 
Signature o f applicant.
32. declaration to be s igned by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant:
a. i am t he Parent / Guardian o f………………………………who i s  an applicant for a membership i n the S ri
Lanka Air Force and who has signed the declaration in cage 31 of the form of application above. 
 …………………………...…. 
Signature of P arent / Guardian .
date:……………………….. 
Name:………………………………………… …………………………………………….………………. 
(in block capitals)
address:………………………………………………………………………………...…………………… 
…………………………….. 
Signature o f  First Witness.
date:……………………….. 
Name:………………………………………… ………………………………….…………………………… 
(in block capitals)
address:………..……………………………………………………………………………………………… 
……………………………….. 
Signature of S econd Witness.
dat e:……………………….. 
Name:…………………………….…… ……………………………………………………………………… 
(in block capitals)
address:…………………………………………………………………………....………………………….. 
3 
Bank, National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc) reasons for termination
of employment:-............................................................................... 
31.
I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a course of training for 
the following. 
b.
To refund to the Republic of Sri Lan ka in the even t of the above named applicant voluntarily 
terminating his /her candidature during his / her period of training all expenses incurred up to that time 
by the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such applicant.
To refund to the Republic of Sri Lank a in the event of the above named applicant reported o n by the 
authorities as being unsuitable (Fo r reasons of misconduct or du e to causes within his /her own 
control) for the continuation of service all the expenses incurred on his / her account by the Republic 
of Sri Lanka. 
 (1)
 (2)
10-228/3
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNka.