

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 3094  
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 3090
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"141 – 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 12 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2019'09'12
No. 2,141 –  thuRsday ,  sEPtEmbER 12, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th october, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th september, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
3087 - b 81559- 5,403 (09/2019)
Note.– Penal code (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of august 30, 2019.
 
N. B.–   Part ii of the Gazette No. 2,140 of 06.09.2019 was not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3088
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3089
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
Further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. however, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
he/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. Failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3090
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births, Deaths and (General) marriages/Additional Registrar of 
(General) marriages Tamil medium
 
amPaRa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the posts of Registrar of births, deaths and marriages/additional Registrar of in the 
divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Soceities as given in the following 
schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agent's Office) or Land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariats 
of the district. 
07. Duly filled applications shall be posted to the address mention in the Schedule on or before 14.10.2019 by 
Register Post.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 13th august, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
ampara ampara Post of additional marriages (General) Registrar 
of Wewugampattuwa North division
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, ampara.
09–282

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3091
mINISTRy Of PRImARy INDuSTRIES AND 
SOCIAL EmPOWERmENT
National Institute of Social Development 
FoR internal and external candidates :
01. Post : Professor -  No. of post : 01 (This Position is 
on Contract basis for a period of one year)
01. Age limit.– shall be below 55 years.
02. Qualifications : 
 (a) bachelor's degree in social sciences from 
a recognized university/higher Education 
institute by the university Grants commission 
with a 1st class or 2nd class upper division ; 
  or
  a  masters degree not less than one year 
duration from a recognized university/higher 
Education institute by the university Grants 
commission in social Work, social sciences, 
social Welfare, social Policy, counseling, 
Community Development or a related field ; 
  And
 (b) a  Phd from a university or a recognized higher 
educational institute by the university Grant 
commission in social Work or social sciences 
(Priority will be given to applicants with a Phd 
in social Work) ; 
  And
 (c) 10 years of experience after obtaining the Phd 
in university level teaching and research with 
experience in academic administration ; 
  Or
 (d) 10 years of experience in senior managerial 
Level at the National institute of social 
development with a Phd in social Work or 
social sciences from a university or higher 
educational institute recognized by the 
university Grants commission. 
  And
 (e) a  very good working ability in English. 
03. Marking Scheme :
Area Marks
i contribution for teaching and Education 
development
20
ii Research and innovations 45
Area Marks
iii Knowledge dissemination and contribution 
for National development
15
iV Performance at interview 20
04. Salary Scale.– monthly salary scale applicable to the 
service category. 
a monthly salary of Rs. 95,716 as per the uGc circular 
No. 961 and other privileges relevant to the post. 
02. Post : Senior Lecturer - No. of Posts 02
01. Age limit.– candidate should not be less 22 years 
age and not more than 45 years as at closing date of the 
application. (the age limit would not be applicable to 
applicants already in the service of Government department/
Provincial state corporation/statutory boards)
external Applicants :
 (a) Educational Qualifications :
  Possession of bachelor's degree in social 
sciences from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission with a Phd in 
social Work. 
 (b) experience.– Experience not less than 10 
years in social Work Education and teaching 
at a government higher education institution/
institution recognized by the government. 
02. Marking Scheme for interview : 
 Marks
Experience in relevant field 30 Marks
Relevant additional Professional  30 marks
 Qualification
other skills 15 marks
Performance at the interview 25 marks
total 100 marks
03. Salary Scale.– aR-2-2016 - Rs. 71,585 -10x1,910 
- Rs. 90,685 monthly receivable salary scale. (2016.04.25 
management services circular 02/2016 as schedule i) aR-
2-2006a - Rs. 34,550 - 10x925 - Rs. 43,800 monthly salary 
will be paid as per schedule ii of the same circular at present. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3092
03. Post : Training Officer II - No. of Post 01
01. Age limit.– candidate should not be less 22 years and 
not more than 45 years as at closing date of the application. 
(the age limit would not be applicable to applicants already 
in the service of Government department/Provincial state 
corporation/statutory board).
02. Educational Qualifications.– (a) Possession of a 
Bachelor's Degree in Social Sciences with a first or second 
class (upper division) from a university/higher educational 
institution recognized by the university Grants commission; 
or
 (b) Possession of a bachelor's degree in social 
sciences with a Post Graduate degree from 
a university/higher educational institution 
recognized by the university Grant commission ; 
  And
 (c) at least one year experience at a government 
higher education/training institution on social 
Development and welfare, relating to the fields 
such as planning  of training programmes, 
implementing and evaluation. 
03. Marking Scheme for interview : 
 Marks
Experience in relevant field 30 Marks
Relevant additional Professional  30 marks
 Qualification
other skills 15 marks
Performance at the interview 25 marks
total 100 marks
04. Salary Scale. – aR-1-2016 - Rs. 51,285 -5x1,135 - 
51,335 - 15x1,590 - Rs. 87,485 monthly receivable salary 
scale. (2016.04.25 management services circular 02/2016 
as schedule i) aR-1-2006a - Rs. 24,725 - 5x550 - 5x645 
-15x770 monthly salary will be paid as per schedule ii of 
the same circular at present.
04. Post : Accountant II - No. of Post 01
01. Age limit.– candidate should not be less 22 years 
and not more than 45 years as at closing date of application. 
(the age limit would not be applicable to applicants already 
in the service of Government department/Provincial state 
corporation/statutory boards)
02. Qualifications :
For external candidates.– Post qualifying experience 
of 5 years in a relevant field after obtaining the licentiate 
certificate of Charted Accountancy ;
or
completion of Part i or ab of cima/acca or higher 
National diploma in accountancy (hNda)/higher National 
diploma in commerce/bachelor's degree in commerce or a 
similar qualification with at least 5 years of experience. 
Internal applicants : 
 i. minimum experience of 05 years in Junior 
management service category i.
or
 ii. When recruiting from a limited competitive 10 
years experience in management assistant service 
Grade i.
03. Marking Scheme : 
 Marks
Experience in relevant field 30 Marks
Related additional Professional  30 marks
 Qualification
other skills 15 marks
Performance at the interview 25 marks
total 100 marks
04. Salary Scale.– mm1-1-2016 - Rs. 53,175 -10x1,375 
-15x1,910 - Rs. 95,575 monthy receivable salary scale. 
(2016.04.25 management services circular 02/2016 as 
schedule i) mm 1-1-2006 - Rs. 25,640 - 3x665 - 7x735- 
15x925 - Rs. 46,655 monthly salary will be paid as per 
schedule ii of the same circular at present.
05. Post : Assistant Librarian II - No. of Post 01.
01. Age limit.– shall be not less than 22 years of age and 
not more than 45 years of age (maximum age limit shall 
not be applicable to the candidates serving in government 
Provincial Public service or statutory boards of the 
government)
02. Educational Qualifications : 
For external candidates. – shall have obtained 
a first degree from a university recognized 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3093
by the university Grants commission and 
minimum experience of 03 years as a librarian 
in a government educational institution or any 
other educational institution recognized by the 
government.
03. Marking Scheme for interview : 
 Marks
Experience in relevant field 30 Marks
Relevant additional Professional  30 marks
 Qualification
other skills 15 marks
Performance at the interview 25 marks
total 100 marks
04. Salary Scale.– Jm 1-1-2016 - Rs. 42,600 -10x755 
-18x1,135 - Rs. 70,580 monthly receivable salary scale 
(2016.04.25 management services circular 02/2016 as 
schedule i) Jm 1-1-2006a - Rs. 20,525 - 365x10 - 550x18 - 
Rs. 34,075 monthly salary will be paid as per schedule ii of 
the same circular at present.
06. Post : Programme Assistant  (Center in Charge) 
III  (for Ranna Centre) - No. of Post 01 
01. Age limit.– candidate should not be less 22 years and 
not more than 45 years as at closing date of the application. 
(the age limit would not be applicable to applicants already 
in the service of Government department/ Provincial state 
corporation/statutory boards).
02. Educational Qualifications.– (a) should have 
obtained the bachelors degree from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission. 
And 
(b) a diploma not less than one year duration from a 
Government institute or a Government recognized institute 
in social Work, social development or counseling. 
And 
(c) Working experience not less one year as a Project 
Officer (Center in Charge) in Government Institute or a 
Government recognized institute. 
03. Salary Scale.– ma-3-2016 - Rs. 32,200 -10x445 
-11x660 - 10x730 - 5x750 - Rs. 54,960 monthly receivable 
salary scale. (2016.04.25 management services circular 
02/2016 as schedule i) ma-3-2006a Rs. 15,600 - 10x215  - 
4x240 - 15x360 - 7x320 - Rs. 26,030 monthly salary will be 
paid as per schedule ii of the same circular at present.
07. Post : Research Assistant III - No. of Posts 02
01. Age limit.– candidate should not be less 22 years 
age and not more than 45 years as at closing date of the 
application. (the age limit would not be applicable to 
applicants already in the service of Government department/
Provincial state corporation/statutory boards).
02. Educational Qualifications.– (a) should have 
obtained the bachelors of degree with research as a subject 
from a university, recognized by the university Grants  
commission ;
And
 (b) minimum experience of one year on Research 
activities, in a Government institution or 
recognized institution. 
03. Salary Scale.– ma-3-2016 - Rs. 32,200 -10x445 
-11x660 - 10x730 - 5x750 - Rs. 54,960 monthly receivable 
salary scale. (2016.04.25 management services circular 
02/2016 as schedule i) ma-3-2006a Rs. 15,600 - 10x215  - 
4x240 - 15x320 - 7x360 - Rs. 26,030 monthly salary will be 
paid as per schedule ii of the same circular at present.
08. Post : Assistant Registrar II - No. of Post 01
01. Age limit.– shall be not less than 22 years of age and 
not more than 45 years of age (maximum age limit shall 
not be applicable to the candidates serving in government 
Provincial Public service or statutory boards of the 
government).
02. Educational Qualifications : 
For external candidates. – shall have obtained a 
first degree from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission and minimum 
experience of two years on academic and 
administrative functions from a government 
educational institution or any other educational 
institution recognized by the government. 
03. Marking Scheme for interview : 
 Marks
Experience in relevant field 30 Marks
Relevant additional Professional  30 marks
 Qualification
other skills 15 marks
Performance at the interview 25 marks
total 100 marks

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3094
04. Salary Scale.– Jm 1-1-2016 - Rs. 42,600 -10x755 
-18x1,135 - Rs. 70,580 monthly receivable salary scale 
(2016.04.25 management services circular 02/2016 as 
schedule i) Jm 1-1-2006a - Rs. 20,525 - 365x10 - 550x18 - 
Rs. 34,075 monthly salary will be paid as per schedule ii of 
the same circular at present.
Conditions/Nature of the appointments : 
1. the appointment is permanent. 
2. the employees are entitled for the contributions to 
the EPF and EtF. 
3. all appointments shall subject to a probation period 
of 03 years. 
Note : the above vacancies (except programme 
assistant - center in charge for Ranna) exist 
at the Main office at Nawala, Rajagiriya and 
the selected employees shall serve only at the 
main office. From 2020 the Institute will move 
to a building complex located at seeduwa, 
Liyanagemulla. 
Service condition.– all appointments made shall be 
conformed to the provisions of the National institute of 
the social development, act, No. 41 of 1992 and other 
government regulations. 
application along with a bio data should be sent by 
the registered post to the following address on or before 
04.10.2019 name of the post shall be written clearly on 
the top left hand corner of the envelope and the applicants 
employed in the government sector shall forward their 
applications. through the head of the institute. 
 
M. t. R. ShaMiNi attaNayaka, 
 director General (Acting),
 National institute of social development.
National institute of social development, 
No. 488a, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya, 
28th august, 2019.
09–387
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of TRANSPORT AND CIvIL 
A vIATION
Open competitive examination for Recruitment 
of Examiners of motor vehicles in Technological 
Service Category of Supervisory management  
level in the Department of Motor Traffic 
2018(2019)
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called from candidates, who 
have possessed qualifications mentioned in this notification, 
for the open competitive examination held for selection of 
candidates qualified for 45 posts in Examiners of Motor 
Vehicles in technological service category of supervisory 
management level (Grade iii), which have fallen vacant. 
this examination will be held only in colombo.
01. Service conditions:.– the candidates, who will be 
selected subject to the general conditions which govern 
appointments in Public service and conditions mentioned 
in the scheme of recruitment under mN 03- 2016 prepared 
as per Public administration circular No. 03.2016 and 
approved by Public services commission, will be appointed 
to the post of Examiner of motor Vehicles in Grade iii. this 
post is permanent and pensionable. 
02. Salary scale and segment :
salary code Number- mN 03 - 2016
salary scale- Rs. 31,040/= - 10x445- 11x 660-                     
10x 730- 10x 750- Rs. 57,550.
03. Method of recruitment to the post.– Recruitments to 
the post will be made on the results of a written competitive 
examination and an interview.
Written examination .– Qualified candidates will be 
selected by way of calling for the interview a number of 
candidates equivalent to the number of candidates expected 
to be recruited on the order of the merit determined on the 
aggregate of marks secured by the candidates, who have 
passed the written examination. 
General Interview.- marks will not be allocated at 
the interview and it will be held only for the purpose of 
verification of qualifications. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3095
i. Particulars of the examination :
Question paper Duration Total marks Cut off marks
1. General knowledge on motor mechanism 02 hours 100 40%
2. aptitude 01 hour 100 40%
ii. syllabus for the examination :
Question paper Syllabus
General knowledge on motor mechanism Basic knowledge on the mechanical defects in relation to the following fields
1. Performance of diesel and petrol engine and velocity rebate
2. clutch system and transmission system
3. Lubrication system and cooling system
4. Electrical system 
5. Fuel system of petrol and diesel vehicles
6. Footbrake system, equipment for testing efficiency of brakes, period of 
reaction, stopping distance
7. handbrake system
8. Equipment of examination of wheel alignment  and steering geometry
9. suspension system
10. Preparation of a quality report for a motor vehicle
11. Issuance of fitness certificate for a motor vehicle
12. General knowledge on the role of department and duties related to an 
Examiner of motor Vehicles
13. General knowledge on painting, wielding, and fitting
14. automatic transmission  
aptitude this question paper consists of subject related questions design to measure 
the numerical skills, critical reasoning ability and general intelligence 
04. Qualifications for recruitment to the post :
 1.  Educational Qualifications-
 i.  should have passed the G.c.E a/L examination in three subjects belonging to stream of science/ maths/  
Technology in one and the same sitting with two subjects related to the field ;
  and
 ii.  should have passed the G.c.E. o/L examination in six subjects in one and the same sitting with credit 
passes to sinhala/tamil/English language, science, mathematics  and one other subject. 
 2.  Professional Qualifications :
 I.  National Diploma in Technology (In relation to the field of Mechanical Engineering, Automobile) awarded 
by university of moratuwa or hardy advanced technological institute, ampara
 II.  National Diploma in Engineering Science (In relation to the field of Mechanical Engineering, Automobile) 
awarded by National apprenticeship  and i industrial training authority
 III.  Higher National Diploma in Engineering  (In relation to the field of Mechanical Engineering, Automobile) 
awarded by ministry of Education and higher Education
 IV .  Diploma in Technology (In relation to the field of Mechanical Engineering, Automobile) awarded by the 
open university of sri Lanka

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3096
 V .  completion successfully of the part i of the 
Engineering Examination conducted by the 
institute of Engineers sri Lanka (With the 
subject of motor Engineering)
 VI.  Completion successfully of the qualifications 
at National V ocational Qualifications level 6 
(NVQ) in relation to the field of employment 
(With the subject of motor Engineering)
 Vii.  having possessed any other technological 
qualifications, which are recognized by Tertiary 
and V ocational Educational commission as 
equivalent to the above mentioned technological 
qualifications by way of communicating with 
ministry of higher Education and institutions, 
which issue above certificates. 
3. experience.– having possessed the above mentioned 
qualifications, every candidate   should possess  at least 2 years 
experience at supervisory level in the field of Mechanical 
Engineering, automobile Government or corporation/ 
statutory board or in a recognized motor vehicle garage , 
which has been registered under the companies act  and 
pays contribution to Employees Provident Fund and 
Employees trust Fund for at least 10 employees and further 
undertake all the repairs on diesel and petrol engines, gear 
boxes, differentials, brake systems, hand brake systems, 
steering systems, electrical systems, suspension system, etc. 
4. Physical fitness.– should be of sound physical and 
mental health to perform the duties of the post in any area 
of sri Lanka. 
5. Other qualifications :
 i.  should be a citizen of sri Lanka
 ii.  should be of an excellent moral character
 iii.  should have possessed a valid driving license 
to drive motor coach (d) heavy motor Lorry 
(cE) and motorcycles except special Purposes 
Vehicles 
 IV .  All necessary qualifications prescribed for 
the post should have been completed each 
and every way by the date prescribed in the 
Notification/Gazette for calling applications.
 V .  No clergy in a religious faith is eligible to 
appear for this examination.
Note: All the officers in Public/Provincial Public 
service, who have possessed above mentioned 
qualifications, can apply for this post.
05. Age :
  i.   minimum age limit- should be not less than 18 
years of age
 ii.   maximum age limit- should be not more than 35 
years of age
  (accordingly those ,whose date of birth fall on 
or before 11.10.2001 and on or after 11.10.1984 
are eligible to apply for the post.)
Note: the maximum age limit is not applicable to 
those who are already in Public/ Provincial 
Public service.
06. Examination fees.– the fee for this examination 
is Rs.600/= this examination fee can be paid at any post 
office/District Secretariat/ Divisional Secretariat so as to be 
remitted to the revenue of the government under Revenue 
head No 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General of 
Examinations before the closing date of applications and the 
receipt issued  should be affixed to the prescribed space so 
as not to be detached. under no circumstance the fee paid 
will be refunded.  it is advisable to keep a photo copy of the 
receipt with the candidate.
07. Methodology for application.– application should 
be  prepared on a paper in the size a4 in three pages in 
accordance with the specimen attached at the end of this 
notification so as to contain Section 01 and 02 in first page, 
03 and 04 in second page and the remaining section in the 
remaining page. the applications of the candidates, who are 
already in Public/ Provincial Public service, should be sent 
through the respective head of institution/ department to 
reach the address mentioned in the notification before the 
closing date of applications. No application should be sent 
to the name of the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic 
or any other officer. 
duly perfected applications, which are prepared as per 
the specimen attached at the end of the notification,  should 
be sent by registered post to commissioner General of 
Examinations, organizations (Establishments and Foreign 
Examinations) department of Examinations, Pelawaththa, 
battaramulla on or before 11.10.2019. the words 'open 
competitive examination for recruitment to the post of 
Examiner of motor Vehicle -Grade iii, department of motor 
Traffic 2018 (2019)' should be clearly indicated on the top 
left corner of the envelope , which contains the application. 
Applications of those, who have not satisfied prescribed 
qualifications, applications which are not duly perfected 
or received after closing date will be rejected. Receipt of 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3097
applications will not be acknowledged. complaints made 
on losses or delays in post will not be considered. it is the 
responsibility of the candidate to send applications on or 
before the closing date of applications. 
08. Inclusion for the examination :
 i.  on the supposition of that only the candidates, 
who have satisfied qualifications prescribed in 
the Gazette Notification have made applications, 
the admission cards will be issued to all 
candidates , who are within the prescribed age 
limit and have submitted their duly perfected 
applications in which the receipt for the 
payment of examination fee is attached, by 
the commissioner General of Examinations. a 
notification regarding the issuance of admission 
cards will be published in newspapers and 
website of the department by the department 
of Examinations immediately after the issuance 
of admission cards. candidates , who do not 
receive their admission cards even  after 02-
03 days from publishing of above notification, 
should make an inquiry from the organisation 
(Establishment and Foreign Examination) 
branch, department of Examination as 
instructed in the notification.  At such occasions, 
the inquiry may be made from the department 
of Examination mentioning correctly the name 
of the examination, full name of the candidate, 
address and number of the National identity 
card.  in case where the candidate is residing 
outside colombo, it is advisable to make such 
inquiry sending a fax message , which contains 
the particulars of the candidate along with a fax 
number for sending a copy of the admission 
card, to the department of Examinations. When 
such inquiry is made, it will be helpful to keep at 
hand  the copy of the  application, receipt issued 
on payment of examination fee, receipt issued 
by post office at the  registration of application 
in order to confirm any information demanded 
by the department of Examinations. 
 ii.  candidates should appear for the examination 
at the examination hall prescribed for the 
candidate. Every candidate  should hand over 
the admission card to the chief Examiner on the 
very first day of the examination. Series of laws 
to be followed by every candidate appearing 
for the examination  has been published  in this 
notification. 
 iii.  the signature  in the application as well as 
admission card should have been certified. A 
candidate, who submits application through 
a certain institution, should get his signature 
certified either by the Head of the respective 
Institution or  an officer authorised by the Head 
of institution for the purpose. signature of 
other candidates should have been attested by a 
Principal of a Government School/retired officer, 
Grama Niladhari of the area, Justice of Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney at Law, 
Notary Public, commissioned Officer of Three 
Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted 
post in the Police Service, a staff officer, who 
has been confirmed in Public/ Provincial Public 
service, chief incumbent of a buddhist temple 
or a prelate of a religious place or holding a 
respectable status in a religious faith.   holding 
a permanent post in public service, or a staff 
Officer.
 iV .  however the issuance of an admission card 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate has 
satisfied qualifications to sit for the examination.
 V .  in case of the violation of rules and regulations 
set out by the commissioner General of 
Examinations with regard to the holding of 
examination, the candidate will be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations. 
09. Identity of the candidate.– candidates should prove 
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
examiner in respect of each subject for which the candidate 
appears and for this purpose any of the following documents 
should be submitted to the examiner.
 (i)  National identity card
 (ii)  Valid passport 
 (iii)  Valid driving license 
10. Furnishing false information.– if it is found that 
a candidate has not satisfied prescribed qualifications, 
his/ her candidature can be cancelled at any time before, 
during or after the examination. in case where it is found 
that any information in the application has been submitted 
by the candidate with the knowledge that it is false or any 
information has been wilfully suppressed by the candidate, 
such candidate is liable to be dismissed from public service. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3098
11. in the event of any inconsistency among the  terms 
of this notification published Sinhala, Tamil and English 
languages, the notification published in Sinhala language 
should prevail. 
12. any matter does not provide for in these regulations 
will be determined by the Public services commission. 
 a. h.
 k. Jagath ChaNdRaSiRi,
 commissioner General,
 Department of Motor Traffic.
12th september, 2019.
miNistRy oF tRaNsPoRt aNd ciViL a ViatioN
OpeN COMpetitiVe exaMiNatiON fOR ReCRuitMeNt Of 
exaMiNeRS Of MOtOR VehiCleS iN teChNOlOgiCal SeRViCe 
CategORy Of SupeRViSORy MaNageMeNt leVel iN the 
depaRtMeNt Of MOtOR tRaffiC- 2018(2019)
index Number
For office use only.
Language medium, in which candidate appears for the 
examination :
sinhala 2
tamil    3
(indicate relevant number in the cage)
it is not allowed later to change the language medium 
selected by the candidate.
01.  Name-
  1.1.  Name in full :––––––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)
   1.2.  Name with initials: mr./mrs./miss. :–––––––––.
   (in English block capitals) E.g. mr. siLVa  a.b. 
  1.3.  Name in full :––––––––––––––.
             (in sinhala/tamil)
  1.4.  Number of the National identity card: 
  1.5.  sex: (male/Female) :––––––––––––––.
02.   2.1.  Permanent address of the candidate :–––––––––.
   (in English block capital)
  2.2. Permanent address :––––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/ tamil)
  2.3.  Official Address :––––––––––––––.
    (in English block capitals) 
  2.4.  Official Address :––––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil) 
  2.5.  address to which the admission card should be 
   sent :––––––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)
  2.6.  contact Number:
   mobile
   Fixed line
03.   3.1.  marital status:  married -1  single -2
        (indicate relevant number)
  3.2.  date of birth :
   y ear :––––––, month  :–––––––, date  :––––––.
  3.3.  age as at 11.10.2019  : 
   y ears :––––––, months  :–––––––, days :––––––.
04. Educational qualification :
  4.1.  G.c.E.(a/L) :
   index Number  :––––––––––––––.  
  y ear  :––––––––––––––.
Subject Pass
   4.2.  G.c.E.(o/L)
   index Number  :––––––––––––––.  
   y ear  :––––––––––––––.
Subject Pass

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3099
  4.3.  Other qualifications  :––––––––––––––.
5.0. Particulars of the examination fee paid by candidate :
  (i) Number  :––––––––––––––. 
  (ii) date  :––––––––––––––.
  (iii) Place  :––––––––––––––.
     (iv) amount paid  :––––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt in this cage
Certificate of the candidate
i hereby declare that the particulars mentioned above are 
correct to the best of my knowledge and the receipt bearing 
number....................dated................ for the payment of 
examination fee is attached herewith. i hereby agree with 
any decision taken to cancel my candidature at any time 
before, after or during the examination if it is found that i 
am not eligible for appearing for the examination as per the 
rules and regulations applied for this examination. Further i 
hereby agree to abide  by the rules and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examination for holding 
this examination.  
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant.
date  :––––––––––––––.
Attestation of the signature
It is hereby certified that Mr. ............................. who is 
known personally to me, has signed this application in my 
presence on ..................... and further he has paid relevant 
fee for examination and  affixed the receipt. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the attester.
Certificate of the Head of Department
(applicable only for the candidates who are already in 
Public/ Provincial Public service)
it is found without any doubt that 
(a) mr.mrs.miss........................................................
has earned all salary increment due for the period of 
five years immediately preceding ......................... 
and(b) he/she has not been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishment except warning.
Affix the receipt in this cage
Further it is hereby certified that the particulars furnished 
in this application are correct and candidate has paid relevant 
fee for examination and  affixed the receipt. 
This officer can be released with immediate effect from 
the post held at present by him/her if he/she is selected to the 
above mentioned post.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 signature and the designation of the 
 head of the department.
date  :––––––––––––––.
09–406
–––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Limited Competitive Examination for 
Promotion of the Officers in Grade l of Sri 
Lanka Technological Service to Special Grade - 
2018(2019)
it is hereby notified that, in accordance with the Minute of 
sri Lanka technological service, published in the Gazette 
extra Ordinary No. 1930/12 dated 01.09.2015, the Limited 
Competitive Examination for promotion of officers in Grade 
i of sri Lanka technological service to special Grade will 
be held by the commissioner General of Examinations, in 
colombo, in the month of december 2019.
02. Officers who have satisfied the following 
qualifications as at 31.12.2018 shall apply for this 
examination.
 I.  Officers who have completed at least an active 
and satisfactory service of five (5) years in 
Grade i of supervisory management assistant 
- technological service category of sri Lanka 
Technological Service and have earned the five 
(5) salary increments.
 II.  Officers who have completed a satisfactory 
service of five (5) years immediately preceding 
the date of promotion.
 III.  Officers who have passed the Third Efficiency 
bar Examination.
03. Following salary scale shall be applicable to the 
officers in Special Class. (MN-7-2016 Step 4 ) Rs. 43,845-          
8 x 755- 18x 1030 - Rs.68,425.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3100
4. Promotion from Grade i to special Grade of sri Lanka 
technological service shall be in the following manner.
 (i) Vacancies in each post in special Grade of sri 
Lanka technological service existing at each 
department and ministry from 01.01.2018 to 
31.12.2018 shall be filled on the results of this 
examination.
 (ii) the results of the Limited competitive 
Examination for recruitment to the special Grade 
shall strictly be applicable to fill the vacancies 
existing from 01.01.2018 to 31.12.2018.
 (iii) Percentage of Recruitment :
  Limited   40%
  service Experience and merit  60%
 (iv) at the instances where the approved number of 
posts is 04, the percentage of recruitment under 
the Limited competitive Examination shall be 
25% and the percentage of recruitment under 
service experience and merit shall be 75%. at the 
instances where the approved number of posts is 
03, the percentage of recruitment under the above 
limited competitive examination shall be 33.33% 
and the percentage of recruitment under service 
experience and merit shall be 66.66%.
 (v) Filling of vacancies shall be made on the results 
of the limited competitive examination subjected 
to the percentages of  04. iii above at the instances 
where the number of vacanc ies in special  
Grade of sri Lanka technological service is 
more than 04.
 (vi) Promotion to special Grade shall be made by the 
Public service commission to be effective from 
the date of examination on the order of merit of 
the examination and the number of vacancies, 
after verifying by an interview board appointed 
by the Public service commission that the other 
relevant qualifications have also been fulfilled 
by those who have passed on the results of the 
limited competitive examination for promotion 
to special Grade conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on behalf of the 
secretary, ministry of Public administration.
 
 (vii) Officers, out of the applicants who have satisfied 
the basic qualifications as at the date on which 
each post has fallen vacant, shall be considered 
for the relevant promotions as per order of merit 
at the time of filling the vacancies.
5. the specimen application for admission to this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
candidates are required to prepare their application in 
accordance with the specimen form and officers in the 
public service should forward their applications through the 
respective head of department and officers in the provincial 
public service should forward their applications through the 
secretary of Public service commission in the Provincial 
council where they serve , by registered post to reach the 
commissioner General of Examinations, organizations 
(institutional and Foreign Examinations) branch, 
department of Examinations, P.o. box 1503, colombo on 
or before 14.10.2019. the top left corner of the envelope 
containing the application should bear clearly the title of the 
examination. applications received after the closing date of 
applications will be rejected.
6. Proof of Identity.– candidates should prove their 
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose 
one of the following documents should be produced to the 
supervisor of the examination hall.
 a)  the National identity card,
 b) Valid Passport,
 c) Valid driving License.
the candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish 
any of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the 
discretion of commissioner General of Examinations.
7. Application :
 (i) applications should be prepared in a paper a4 in 
size using both sides. No. 01 to 05 should appear 
on the first page. Applications could be typed but 
they should be completed correctly and legibly by 
the candidate in his/her own handwriting.
 (ii) When preparing the application, the title of the 
examination should be written in English in 
addition to sinhala on sinhala applications and 
tamil on tamil applications. applications that 
do not comply with the specimen and have not 
been duly perfected shall be rejected without 
notice. therefore, the candidates themselves 
should make sure that the perfected applications 
are in conformity with the specimen form. it is 
advisable to keep a photo copy of the application 
form with the candidate.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3101
 (iii) candidates are not allowed to change the language 
medium selected by them in their applications. if 
applications are received in all three language 
mediums, i.e. sinhala, tamil and English, the 
examination will be held in those three language 
mediums. however, candidates should answer all 
the question papers in one and the same language 
selected by them.
 (iv) candidates who appear for this examination 
for the first time are not required to pay any 
examination fee. however, if a subsequent 
sitting, an examination fee of Rs.600/- should 
be paid at any Post Office/ Sub Post Office or 
district/ divisional secretariat to be credited to 
Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. the receipt obtained 
thus should be affixed in the relevant cage of the 
application form. money orders or stamps are 
not accepted for examination fees. it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt. the fee 
shall not be paid back or shall not be allowed to 
transfer in respect of any other examination under 
any circumstances.
08.  (i)  the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to the candidates who 
have forwarded duly perfected applications 
along with the receipt if payment of examination 
fee on or before the closing date of examination 
mentioned in the Notification is applicable, 
medium of examination, public service to which 
the applicant belongs, signature of the applicant 
and the attestation of the signature, 
recommendation and certification of the Head of 
the department, on the presumption that only 
those who possess the qualifications mentioned 
in the Gazette Notification have applied. Officers 
sitting for the examination must get his signature 
on the admission card attested in advance and 
produce to the supervisor of the examination 
center. it will not be allowed to sit for the 
examination without such admission card. 
Further, issuance of an admission card to a 
candidate does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
 (ii)  as soon as the admission cards are issued 
to candidates, department of Examinations 
will publish a notice announcing the same 
in newspapers and the official web site of the 
department. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, 
it should be inquired from the organizations 
(institutional and Foreign Examinations) 
branch, department of Examinations in the 
manner as mentioned in the notification. The 
applicant should correctly mention the name 
of the examination applied for, full name of 
the applicant, national identity card number 
and address when making such inquiry. in case 
of applicants outside colombo, it would be 
advisable to make the request sending a letter 
of request stating the same to the fax number 
mentioned in the Notification along with the fax 
number to which a copy of the admission card 
can be sent promptly. it would be useful to have 
the following documents in hand at the time of 
calling the department of Examinations, i.e. a 
photocopy of the application form, receipt of 
payment of examination fess (if applicable) and 
receipt of registration.
 (iii)  candidate shall get his/her signature on the 
application and the admission card attested by the 
Head of the institution or an officer authorized 
by him. candidate shall sit for the examination 
at the examination hall assigned to him under 
the specific number given to him and produce 
his admission card with his signature attested 
to the supervisor of the examination center on 
the day of the examination. any candidate who 
fails to produce his admission card shall not be 
permitted to sit for the examination.
09. the documents furnished later by the candidates who 
have failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in Para (08) 
above will not be considered.
10. Issuance of the results of the examination.– actions 
shall be taken to issue the results of this examination to the 
secretary of the Public service commission.
 
11. Scheme of examination.– Examination for promotion 
of officers in Class 1 to Special Class will consist of 2 
question papers.
(1) aptitude test - duration 1 hour - 100 marks
(2) management - duration 3 hours - 100 marks
candidates shall be required to obtain a minimum of 40% 
of the marks for each question paper to be qualified.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3102
Syllabus of the first question paper shall be as follows:
Aptitude Test - Subject No. (1)
a test designed to assess as to whether 
the officer has acquired knowledge, skills and 
attitudes required for the fulfillment of tasks 
entrusted to him/her in an efficiency beyond the  
performance  at average level and whether the officer displays 
competency in the application of the above. this question                    
paper  consists  of  50  questions  in  the  form  of  multiple  choice     and 
Questions for short answers and all the questions should be 
answered.
syllabus of the second question paper will be as follows:
management - Subject No. (2)
 (i) Principles of management
 (ii) management functions
   Planning
   decision making
   Process of decision making 
   organization
   Staffing 
   directing
   motivation Process
   Leadership
   control
   Process of controlling
 (iii) Participatory management
 (iv) management Environment
 (v) case study
this is a structured essay type question paper. all the 
questions should be answered.
12. candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
in conducting the examination and issuing the results. 
candidates are liable to be subjected to a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
for breach of these rules. in accordance with the regulations 
relevant to this notification, if a candidate is found to be 
ineligible, his/ her candidature is liable to be cancelled at 
any stage prior to during or after the examination.
13. the decision of the secretary of the Public 
Service Commission will be the final in respect of any 
matter not provided for in this notification.
14. in case of an inconsistency between sinhala, tamil 
and English text of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
on the order of the Public service commission,
 J. J. 
RathNaSiRi,
 secretary,
 ministry of Public administration, disaster 
 management and Livestock development.
ministry of Public administration, disaster 
management and Livestock development,
independence square,
colombo 07,
28th august, 2019.
sPEcimEN FoRm oF aPPLicatioN
(For office use only)
Y%S ,xld ;dlaIK fiajfha i fY%a‚fha ks,Orhka úfYaI 
fY%a‚hg Wiia lsÍfï iSñ; ;r. úNd.h - 2018^2019&
Limited competitive Examination for Promotion of the 
Officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service to 
special Grade - 2018(2019)
01.  (a)  Medium in which the officer appears for the 
examination  
  (sinhala- 2 / tamil- 3 / English - 4
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)  
  indicate whether you belong to Provincial Public 
service or which Public service :
  
  (indicate the number relevant to the public 
service to which you belong)
(Western Provincial Public service - 01/ central Provincial 
Public service - 02/ southern Provincial Public service - 03/ 
Northern Provincial Public service- 04/ Eastern Provincial 
Public service - 05/North Western Provincial Public service 
- 06/ North central Provincial Public service - 07/ uva 
Provincial Public service - 08/ sabaragamuwa Provincial 
Public service - 09/ central Government service- 10)
 (b)  Name in full (in English block capital letters) :–––––.
  (eg: hERath mudiyaNsELaGE samaN 
KumaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3103
 (c)  Name with initials at the end (in English block capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
   (eg: GuNa WaRdhaNa, h.m.s.K.)
 (d) Name in full (in sinhala /tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 (e) Official address (Admissions will be posted to this address.) :
  (in English capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 (f) sex :   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)    
    (male - 0 / Female- 1)
 (g) National identity card No.: 
 (h)  mobile Number:
02. department which you belong to :–––––––––––––.
03. designation :–––––––––––––.
04.  Period of service as at 31.12.2018:  years :  months :   days :
05.  (i) date of birth : y ear :              month :     date :
 
 (ii) age as at 31.12.2018 :  years :  months :   days :
Paste the receipt of the examination fee of Rs.600/-firmly, if not the first sitting.
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy)
Receipt number of the examination fee - 
Office to which the fee was paid -
amount paid -
i declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and i am entitled to sit for the examination in the 
language medium mentioned above. Furthermore, i hereby agree to be abided by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in conducting the examination and issuing the results.
 
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
Note : Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized to 
sign on his behalf or Head of the Regional Office.
Attestation of Candidate’ s Signature
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss. ................................................................................ is presently employed in 
my office and is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ....................................  and 
he/ she is exempted from payment of examination fee/ has paid the examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the attester.
 Official Stamp
date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3104
Recommendation and Certification of the Head of the Department
 (i)  Recommendation of the head of the department on the disciplinary inquiries that were carried on or are being 
carried on against the applicant :..................................................................................................................................
 (ii)  i hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 01-05 above are correct, that this candidate is eligible to sit 
for the examination, that he/she is eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned above and 
he/ she is exempted from payment of examination fee/ has paid the examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature and designation of head of department.
 Official Stamp.
date :––––––––––––.
Note:- A certified copy should be sent to the personal file of the candidate and the other copy should be sent to reach 
department of examinations of sri Lanka promptly.
09 – 429
––––––––––––––––––––
fIRST EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR ThE OffICERS IN SRI LANkA ANImAL 
PRODuCTION AND hEALTh SERvICE -2017(2019)
it is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the above mentioned Service is expected to 
commence in December, 2019 and to be held in Peradeniya. Applications are called from the officers who were in the Sri 
Lanka animal Production and health service as at 04
th october, 2019.
2. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the 
same time.
3. The Syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to efficiency bar examinations 01 are stated in the new service 
minute.
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
4. The prescribed Subjects for the efficiency bar examination I are given below.
Subject Duration Aggregate marks Pass Marks
1.Financial systems 02 hours 100 40
2.administration 02 hours 100 40
3. departmental regulations 1 02 hours 100 40
4.departmental regulations 2 02 hours 100 40
5. syllabus for the examination :
Subject Syllabus
1.Financial systems the Financial Regulations of the Government of sri Lanka (Except chapter X)
2. administration
(a) Office Systems, Office Management and knowledge on office organization;
(b) Procedural rules of the Public service commission chapters from i - XXii & Establishment 
code chapters Vi, Vii, Viii, iX, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XV , XVi, XVii, XViii, XiX, XXiii, XXV , 
XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii, XLViii

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3105
Subject Syllabus
3. dept.Regulations 
Paper i
animal act, the animal disease act and related regulations, departmental orders and circulars
relevant to Veterinary surgeon's services.
dept. Regulations
Paper ii
a. Dissemination of specimens, Laboratory identification including post - mortem examination. 
Pregnancies diagnosis, vaccines for contagious and infectious disease, serological test.
b. Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations, principles relevant to breeding and rearing 
of calves, hatching and rearing of chicks by incubation, animal nutrition food rationing usage, 
pasture fodder cultivation, preparation of silages and Livestock management.
c. milk production, bottling and transportation of pasteurized milk, bacteria and fat in milk, 
separation of cream and processing of butter, ghee and curd.
d. Slaughtering of animal in abattoirs, identification of meat including testing. 
5. The attention of the Candidates who sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the 
treasury circular No.701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :
“the medium for departmental examinations (including Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be 
the Language in which the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official Language. 
But the officers who entered the service without a competitive examination should select either the Language in which the 
officer qualified for entry to the Public Service or the Official Language.
6. this Examination will be conducted in sinhala, tamil and English. Permission will not be given to change the 
medium applied by the candidate later.
7. if found later that the candidate has sat for the examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature 
will be cancelled.
8. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 
size paper using both sides of it. it should be noted that the cages 01 to 06 should appear on page i of the paper and the rest on 
the other side of the paper. The application should be filled by the candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per 
the specimen form and the incomplete applications forms will be rejected without informing the candidate. the candidate is 
advised to keep a Photostat copy of the application for his use. Further the candidate should check the applications prepared 
by himself with the specimen application appeared in the notice. the name of the examination should be written in English 
too in the applications prepared in sinhala or tamil medium.
9. the Examination will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound 
to abide by rules and regulations enacted by him. the relevant rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this notice. 
candidates are subject to the rules and regulations enacted by the commissioner General of Examinations in respect of 
conducting the examination and issuing of results. if a candidate violates any of the rules is liable to punishment at the 
discretion of the commissioner General of Examination.
10. applications should be forwarded through the head of department/institute by registered Post to reach 
the director General of animal Production and health, to the address given below on or before 04
th october, 2019. the 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
the director General of animal Production and health, 
department of animal Production and health,
P.o. box 13,
Peradeniya.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3106
11. the applicants those who have forwarded the 
accurately completed application including their language 
medium in which they wish to appear at the examination, 
applicant’s signature and certification of Departmental Head, 
and the receipt when it is prescribed to pay the fee before or 
on the date of receiving applications indicated in the notice, 
will be issued the admissions by the commissioner General 
of Examinations assuming that only qualified personals 
have applied for this examination as stated in the Gazette 
notification. As soon as the admission cards are issued to 
the candidates, the dept. of Examinations of sri Lanka will 
publish a notice in papers and in the official website of the 
department. if the admission card is not received 2-3 days 
after the publication of the notice, it should be informed 
to the department of Examinations as stated in the notice. 
there, the candidates are informed to indicate candidate’s 
full name, address, National identity card Number and the 
Examination applied for. the candidates who reside outside 
colombo should make the inquiry to the fax number given 
in this notice stating his/her fax number in the request to 
obtain a copy of the admission card .it is useful to keep 
certified Photostat copies of the application and receipt of the 
payment and receipt of the registration in your possession.
12. the claims submitted later by the candidates who 
have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above 
paragraph 11 will not be considered.
13. only the National identity card or the valid passport or 
the valid driving license will be accepted for the examinations 
conducted by the department of Examinations in order to 
prove the identity of the candidate at the examination hall. 
the applicant’s signature in the application as well as in 
the admission card should be certified by the Head of the 
department or by an authorized person. the applicant 
should appear for the examination being seated in the place 
where your examination number has been indicated and the 
certified admission card should be produced to the examiner 
on the examination day. the applicant who does not produce 
the certified admission card will not be allowed to sit for the 
examination.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the 
examination on the following basis.
 (a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for 
this examination for the first time.
 (b) For each subsequent sitting
  for whole examination : Rs. 1200.00
  single subject  : Rs. 600.00
candidates who have already sat for this examination or 
the ones those who have applied previously, are required 
to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. the above 
examination fees should be paid to any post office/sub 
post office or District Secretariat situated in the island 
to be credited to Revenue head No. 20-03-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examination and the receipt of 
it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the 
application. Further it may be useful to keep a Photostat 
copy of it.  
15.1ssuing of an admission card to a candidate will not 
be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit for the examination.
16.1f sinhala /tamil or English language versions of the 
gazette notification are comparative the Sinhala versions 
will be accepted.
 dr. K. d. 
aRiyapala,
 director General of the dept. of 
 animal Production & health.
26th august, 2019.
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN FoRm
MiNiStRy Of publiC adMiNiStRatiON, diSaSteR MaNageMeNt 
aNd liVeStOCk deVelOpMeNt fiRSt effiCieNCy baR 
exaMiNatiON fOR the OffiCeRS iN SRi laNka aNiMal 
pROduCtiON aNd health SeRViCe -2017(2019)
(the name of the examination should be written on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope.)
Language medium of examination :
 sinhala  - 2
 tamil  - 3
 English  - 4
(Give the relevant number in the box)
01.  (i)  Full name(in block letters) :––––––––––––.
   (Ex: hERath mudiyaNsELaGE samaN 
   KumaRa GuNaWaRdhaNE)
  (ii)  Last name with initials (in block letters)  :––––––.
   (Ex: GuNaWaRdhaNE h.m.s.K)
  (iii)  Full name (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block 
letters)  :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3107
03. male/Female
 female - 1
 male  - 0
 (write the appropriate number in the cage)
04. Nic Number :
05.  mobile Phone No. :
06. subjects selected with the number as indicated in the 
paragraph 04 of the notification (should be written 
clearly) :
Subject No. Subject
07. state whether you have sat for whole or a part of this 
examination. if so state the subjects, year and month 
:––––––––––––.
08. date of birth : 
 y ear :––––––––, month :–––––––––, date :–––––––––.
09. Name of the designation :––––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
 Name of the department :––––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
10. the date on which the appointment was made to the sri 
Lanka animal Production and health service :–––––––.
i declare that the above particulars are correct and that 
i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium indicated above further i am prepared to abide by 
the conditions enacted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations with regard to the conduct the examination. 
 Examination Fee Rs. :––––––––––––.
 Paying Office :––––––––––––.
 Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
To affix the receipt 
(keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of candidate. 
date :––––––––––––.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
through director General, department of animal 
Production and health
Forwarded :-
*i certify that the candidate whose particulars appear 
above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she 
has qualifications to sit for the examination in the medium 
stated in the application. 
i also certify that the receipt, paying the prescribed 
examination fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate. 
i attest the candidate's signature. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of head of department and 
  designation. 
  (Place the rubber stamp)
date :––––––––––––.
(*may be deleted, fee not been paid)
09–331/1
–––––––––––––––––
SECOND  EffICIENCy  bAR  ExAmINATION  fOR  ThE  OffICERS  IN  SRI  LANkA 
ANImAL  PRODuCTION  AND  hEALTh  SERvICE -2017(2019)
it is hereby notified that the second Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the above mentioned Service is 
expected to commence in December, 2019 and to be held in Peradeniya. Applications are called from officers, who 
were in the sri Lanka animal Production and health service as at 04th october, 2019.
2. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the 
same time.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3108
3. The Syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to efficiency bar examinations II are stated in the service minute. 
Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt or several attempts.
4. The prescribed Subjects for the efficiency bar examination II are given below.
examination detail :
Paper Subject No. Duration (hours) Aggregate Pass marks
Part 01 01 03 100 40
or
Part 02 02 03 100 40
and
Part 3 2 papers should be answered from part 3
Paper 1 03 03 100 40
Paper 2 04 03 100 40
Paper 3 05 03 100 40
Paper 4 06 03 100 40
Paper 5 07 03 100 40
Paper 6 08 03 100 40
Paper 7 09 03 100 40
Paper 8 10 03 100 40
Paper 9 11 03 100 40
Paper 10 12 03 100 40
Paper 11 13 03 100 40
05. Syllabus for the examination :
Paper Subject No. syllabus
Part 1 01 sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2, 8:2:2, 8:2:3, 
8:3:1, 9:2, 9:4, 9:6, 9:7 of the syllabus
Part 2 02 sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1. 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1, 10:1:1, 10:1:2, 
10:1:3, 10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8, 10:4:1 of the syllabus
Paper Subject No. Syllabus
part 3
paper 1 03 Epidemiology
paper 2 04 Livestock Economics
paper 3 05 Veterinary Public health
paper 4 06 agriculture Extension
paper 5 07 Genetics and breeding
paper 6 08 animal Physiology and reproduction
paper 7 09 housing for animals and management

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3109
Paper Subject No. Syllabus
paper 8 10 animal Nutrition
paper 9 11 Pasture and Fodder
paper 10 12 applied Vet. microbiology & immunology
paper 11 13 applied medicine, Pathology & Parasitology
Note: the candidates who sit for 2 nd efficiency bar examination should select either part 01 or 02 and two question 
papers from the above Xi Papers in part 03. candidate should obtain at least 40% marks for each paper.
5. The attention of the Candidates who sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the 
treasury circular No.701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :-
“The medium for departmental examinations (including Promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be 
the Language in which the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official Language. 
But the officers who entered the service without a competitive examination should select either the Language in which the 
officer qualified for entry to the Public Service or the Official Language.
6. this examination will be conducted in sinhala, tamil, and English. Permission will not be given to change the 
medium applied by the candidate later.
7. if found later that the candidate has sat for the examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature 
will be cancelled.
8. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared on 
a4 size paper using both sides of it. it should be noted that the cages 01 to 06 should appear on page i of the paper and the 
balance on the other side of the paper. The application should be filled by the candidate. The applications which are not 
prepared as per the specimen form and the incomplete applications forms will be rejected without informing the candidate. 
the candidate is advised to keep a Photostat copy of the application for his use. Further the candidate should check the 
applications prepared by himself with the specimen application appeared in the notice. the name of the examination should 
be written in English too in the applications prepared in sinhala or tamil medium.
9. the Examination will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound 
to abide by rules and regulations enacted by him. the relevant rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this notice. 
candidates are subject to the rules and regulations enacted by the commissioner General of Examinations in respect of 
conducting the examination and issuing of results. if a candidate violates any of the rules is liable to punishment at the 
discretion of the commissioner General of Examination.
10. applications should be forwarded through the head of department/institute by registered Post to reach 
the director General of animal Production and health, to the address given below on or before 04
th october, 2019. the 
applications received,after the closing date will be rejected.
the director General of animal Production and health,
department of animal Production and health,
P.o.box 13,
Getambe,
Peradeniya.
11. the applicants those who have forwarded the accurately completed application including their language 
medium in which they wish to appear at the examination, applicant’s signature and certification of Departmental Head, and 
the receipt when it is prescribed to pay the fee before or on the date of receiving applications indicated in the notice, will be 
issued the admissions by the Commissioner General of Examinations assuming that only qualified personals have applied 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3110
for this examination as stated in the Gazette notification. As 
soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates, the 
dept. of Examinations of sri Lanka will publish a notice in 
papers and in the official website of the Department. If the 
admission card is not received 2-3 days after the publication 
of the notice, it should be informed to the department of 
Examinations as stated in the notice. there, the candidates 
are informed to indicate candidate’s full name, address, 
National identity card Number and the Examination applied 
for. the candidates who reside outside colombo should 
make the inquiry to the fax number given in this notice 
stating his/her fax number in the request to obtain a copy 
of the admission card .It is useful to keep certified Photostat 
copies of the application and receipt of the payment and 
receipt of the registration in your possession. the claims 
submitted later by the candidates who have failed to fulfill 
the requirements as stated in the above paragraph 11 will not 
be considered.
12. the clai ms submitted later by the candidates who 
have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above 
paragraph 11 will not be considered.
13. only the National identity card issued or the valid 
passport or the valid driving license will be accepted 
for the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations in order to prove the identity of the candidate 
at the examination hall. the applicant’s signature in the 
application as well as in the admission card should be 
certified by the Head of the Department or by an authorized 
person. the applicant should appear for the examination 
being seated in the place where your examination number 
has been indicated and the certified admission card should 
be produced to the examiner on the examination day. the 
applicant who does not produce the certified admission card 
will not be allowed to sit for the examination.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the 
examination on the following basis.
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for 
this examination for the first time.
(b) For each subsequent sitting
 for whole examination : Rs. 1200.00
 single subject : Rs. 600.00
candidates who have already sat for this examination 
are required to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. the 
above examination fees should be paid to any post office/
sub post office or District Secretariat situated in the island 
to be credited to Revenue head No. 20-03-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examination and the receipt of 
it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the 
application .Further it may be useful to keep a Photostat 
copy of it.
15. issuing of an admission card to a candidate will not 
be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit for the examination.
16. if sinhala /tamil or English language versions of the 
Gazette notification are comparative the Sinhala versions 
will be accepted.
 dr. K. d. 
aRiyapala,
 director General of the dept, of 
 animal Production & health.
P.o. box 13,
Gatambe, Peradeniya,
26
th august, 2019.
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN FoRm
MiNiStRy Of publiC adMiNiStRatiON, diSaSteR MaNageMeNt 
aNd liVeStOCk deVelOpMeNt SeCONd effiCieNCy baR 
exaMiNatiON fOR the OffiCeRS iN SRi laNka aNiMal 
pROduCtiON aNd health SeRViCe -2017(2019)
(the name of the examination should be written on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope.)
Language medium of examination :
 sinhala  - 2
 tamil  - 3
 English  - 4
(Give the relevant number in the box)
01.  (i)  Full name(in block letters) :––––––––––––.
   (Ex: hERath mudiyaNsELaGE samaN 
   KumaRa GuNaWaRdhaNE)
  (ii)  Last name with initials (in block letters)  :––––––.
   (Ex: GuNaWaRdhaNE h.m.s.K)
  (iii)  Full name (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block 
letters)  :––––––––––––.
03. male/Female
 female - 1
 male  - 0
 (write the appropriate number)

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.09.2019
3111
04. Nic Number :
05.  mobile Phone No. :
06. subjects selected with the number as indicated in the 
paragraph 04 of the notification (should be written 
clearly) :
Subject No. Subject
07. state whether you have sat for whole or a part of this 
examination. if so state the subjects, year and month 
:––––––––––––.
08. date of birth : 
 y ear :––––––––, month :–––––––––, date :–––––––––.
09. Name of the designation :––––––––––––.
 (in block letters)
 Name of the department :––––––––––––.
 (in block letters) 
10. the date on which the appointment with made to the   
sri Lanka animal Production and health service :–––––––.
i declare that the above particulars are correct and that 
i am entitled to sit for the examination in the language 
medium indicated above. 
Further i am prepared to abide by the conditions enacted 
by the commissioner General of Examinations with regard 
to the conduct of the examination. 
11. Examination Fee Rs. :––––––––––––.
 Paying Office :––––––––––––.
 Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
To affix the receipt 
(keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of candidate. 
date :––––––––––––.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
through director General, department of animal 
Production and health
Forwarded :-
i certify that the candidate whose particulars appear 
above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she 
has qualifications to sit for the examination in the medium 
stated in the application. 
*i also certify that the receipt, paying the prescribed 
examination fee, has been duly affixed by the candidate.  I 
attest the candidate's signature. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of head of department and 
  designation. 
  (Place the rubber stamp)
date :––––––––––––.
(*may be deleted, fee not been paid)
09–331/2
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.