

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1125
1125
wxl 1"566 - 2008 iema;eïn¾ 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2008'09'05
No. 1,566 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 05, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1128
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1131
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th September, 2008, should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 29th August, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II of the Gazette No. 1,565 of 29.08.2008  was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1126
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1127
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1128
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Sub-Inspector of Police, (Special Task Force)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Sub-Inspector in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below, should be sent to Director (Recruitment)
Recruiting Officer, 2nd Floor, New Secretariat Building,
Colombo  01. The applications should be sent by registered post to
the above mentioned address to reach on or before 06th October,
2008 and the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing
applications should be marked Post of Sub-Inspector of Police
Delayed applications will be rejected and no applications will be
issued by the Sri Lanka Police Department.
3. Salary Scale.— Rs. 190,200 – 7 X 2,160 – 2 X 2,880 – 8 X
3,840 – 17 X 4,500 – Rs. 3,18,300
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances :
(a) Special arduous duty allowances :
(1) For duties in operational area Rs. 1,200
(2) For duties in non operational area Rs. 600
(b) Combined allowance :
(1) For duties in operational area Rs. 12,000
(2) For duties in non operational area Rs. 4,000
(a) Free Transport facilities
(b) Free Medical facilities to officers.
(Financial assistance can be obtained for medical treatment
even in a foreign country)
(c) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(d) Facilities to improve skill and talents in sports.
(e) Traveling expense for duty and money will be granted as
rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
(f) Officers will be entitled for the special allowance only
during the period they are attached to the STF consequent
to the basic training.
4. Basic Qualifications.—
(a) Age Limits.—  The age should be between 18 and 25 years
as at closing date as per the Gazette Notifications.
However, Security Assistants who are serving in the Police
Department are eligible to apply up to 30 Years on the
closing date of applications.
(b) Educational Qualifications :
* Passed the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects at
one sitting with credit passes in 04 subjects which 2
should be Medium Language and Mathematics.
* Applicant should have passed 3 subjects at one sitting
at the G.C.E. (A/L) examination.
Note 01.– According to the classification of subjects of the
Department of Examinations, in calculating the number of subjects
passed at G.C.E. (O/L) both passes in science subjects number 41
and 44 will be treated as one subject and both passes in Mathematics
number 42 and 45 will be treated as one subject. (They can’t be
considered as four separate subjects taking into account the number
of subjects passed.)
Note 02.– Failure in the Technical subject at Written Test of
G.C.E. (O/L) examination will be considered as failure in the same
subject although a pass has been obtained for the same in the
Practical test.
Note 03.– Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and Sinhala
have not been included in the stream of G .C.E. (O/L), passes in any
of these subjects will not be computed as a pass in the G.C.E.
(O/L) examination.
(c) Application who fulfill the under mentioned qualifications
will be given a special consideration.
* Diploma course in computer for not less than one
year in a government or a Government recognize
institute.
* A pass in Science in the Advance Level and a course
in Electronic Science for a period not less than 2
years in a government or Government recognized
institution and a period of not less than 2 years on
practical training at the same institution.
* National Diploma course or a course on motor
machanism for a period of 4 years in a Government
or a Government recognized institution and a working
experience of 3 years in the same institution.
(d)
Physical requirements :
Height 5 feet 06 inches (minimum)
Chest 32 Inches Minimum (deflated)
Note .– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated qualifications will be
eligible at the discretion of Inspector General of Police provided
they have skills in sports or have achieved best performance in

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1129
sports at national level or they have earned reputation for Sri Lanka
by participating in an international competition.
(d) Visual requirements.—  Vision should not be less than
6/12 with each eye. If the vision is 6/6 with one eye and
6/18 with the other eye will be accepted. Colour vision
should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or
contact lenses will not be eligible.
(e) Other qualifications.—
* Applicants should be unmarried.
(Divorcees will be considered as married) This condition
will not apply for Those who have fulfilled the other
qualifications and presently serving in the police
Department and for the Security Assistants.
5. Method of recruitment.—  Selected applicants  will have to
pass in the Basic Qualifications Test. Only those who have passed
this test  can participate in the Physical Tests. That is they have to
pass the Endurance Test.
1. 1500 meters 6 minutes 20 seconds
2. Situp 30 seconds 15 Times
3. Dips 30 seconds 15 Times
4. Scott thrush 30 second 20 Times.
* those who are successful in the test will be summoned
for final interview. Those who score 40% or more
will be summoned for the final Written Test.
* The written Test consists of two question papers.
* An essay not less than 500 words within 45 minutes.
* General knowledge and General Intelligence - 1 hour.
6. Medical Examination .— Applicants who obtain the highest
marks with other efficiencies will have to appear for a Medical
Examination prior to the appointment. Unsuccessful candidates
will be rejected for appointment.
7. Background Inquiries.—
(a) Inquiries will be conducted on the conduct of the
applicant, close relations and friends. Applications with
bad conduct will not be recruited.
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicant, the applicant will be
dismissed from service.
8. Implementation of the official language policy.—
*  As per the circular dated 28.04.2007 of the public
Administration on   No. 07/2007 of the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home affairs those who were
appointed to the Central Govt. Service/Provincial Public
Service, in addition to their Language of recruitment,
should acquire proficiency in other official languages with
in 5 years from 01.07.2007.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007, should pass
the language Test Conducted by the Official Language
Department.
* The increment of those who fail to pass the second official
language within 5 years from the date of appointment
will be deferred until a pass is obtained.
9. Terms of Engagement.— This Post is permanent. Appointees
come with in the scope of the Contributory Pension Fund Scheme.
10. Conditions of Service.—
(a) This appointment is subject to a period of probation
for three years.
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereafter be made to give
effect to the language policy of the government.
(c) They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code V olume I and II, Police
Disciplinary Code and any other Orders that may be
issued by the Inspector General of Police or by the
Government from time to time.
(d) Every officer will be required to pass the prescribed
Departmental tests. Those who fail to pass the
prescribed test or are found to be unfit for Police duties
will be liable for removal from the Police Service.
(e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to being
confirmed in the said rank without the permission of
the T. G . Police, However, in terms of P. G . II No. 41
dated 28.02.1973 and I. G .’ s circular No.: 1952/2006 of
19.10.2006 and 09.08.2007 (Amended), it is possible
to marry showing special reasons and with permission
of I. G . Police.
(f) Application on being appointed and after the training
should serve a probationary period of three years in the
Police Department and if they wish to resign from service
before their probation is over, they should sign an
agreement of consent to the effect that they are willing
to pay at the time of tendering their resignation, any
amount which was incurred on uniforms etc., during on
by the Director of Police Training College. The
acceptance of resignation should confirm to the Section
4 Chapter V of V olume 1 of the Establishment Code
1985.
(g) Probationary Sub Inspector of  Police, immediately after
they have commenced training at the Police Training
College should affirm/swear that they adhere to the
Police Disciplinary Code in terms of the I. G . P. Circular
No.1693/2003.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1130
(h) They should soon after commencing the training at
Police College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to the
Public service, in terms of the I. G.P’s Circular No.1804/
2004.
(i) Sub-Inspector of Police, will have the scope for
promotions in terms of the approved scheme of
promotions of the Police Department.
11. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointment to posts in the Police service published
in the Section (IIA) of the Part 1 of this Gazette.
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
12.Applicants should  annex copies of following documents to
their application. (Originals must not be forwarded)
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of Character (obtained from
persons who are not related);
(iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or
other extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates of Service experience, (if available) ;
(vi) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card.
13. (a) Applications from applicants who are already in the
Public service/services must be forwarded through the
Heads of their respective departments and must be
accompanied by a certificate stating that the officers
can be released, if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their
own.  hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post
them, together with the copies of certificates called for
to the address given in paragraph 2 and under no
circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the Department.
14. Applications, which do not conform to the requirements,
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note : No Traveling or other expenses will be paid to applicants
who are summoned for the test and interview.
JAYANTHA WICKRAMARATNA, S.C.
Inspector  General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
THE POST OF SUB-INSPECTOR OF POLICE
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. (a) Name in full (In block letters) :———.
(As stated in applicant’s Birth Certificate) :———.
(b) Name with initials :———.
(c) Applicant Rank :———.
02. National Identity Card No. :———.
(Copy of N. I. C. should be attached) :———.
03. Father’s Name in Full :———.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :———.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :———.
Province :———.
05. (a) Present address :———.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs :———.
(c) Permanent Address :———.
(d) Police station and the electorate to which the permanent
address belongs :———.
06. (a) Nationality :———.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration
(if by registration attach copies of the certificate) :
If you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth of.
(i) Applicant :———.
(ii) Applicant’s Father :———.
(iii) Applicant’s paternal grandfather :———.
(iv) Applicant’s paternal great grandfather :———.
07 Age : (as on the closing date of application given in the Gazette)
Years :———. Months :———. days :———.
(Copy of birth certificate should be attached)
08. Height : (Inches) :———. Chest (Inches) :———.
09. Educational Qualification (State Examinations passed at attach
copies of certificates) :
10. Additional Qualifications :———.
(Copies of certificates)
11. Whether married or single :———.
12. (i) Present employment :———.
(ii) Are you a members of any armed Force :———.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1131
13. Have you any special claims and/or Qualifications :———.
14. Give names and address of two non - related referees :——–.
 (i) ———.
(ii) ———.
15. (a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Police Service (If so
give reference) :———.
(b) Have you served in the Police or in the Sri  Lanka  Reserve
Police before ? :———.
(if so under what circumstances did you leave the service?
Give details)
16. Are you a member of the SL Police Reserve ? If so give date
of appointment Rank and Number Attach copy of the
Appointment Letter.
17. (a) Are you serving in any of the Armed Services? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
Service Commander) :———.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Services? (If so,
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :———.
COMPETITIVE  EXAM  TO  RECRUIT  EXTERNAL
APPLICANTS  FOR  THE  V ACANCIES  IN  AGRARIAN
DEVELOPMENT  OFFICERS  SERVICE - 2008
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified external applicants
possessing following qualifications to fill the vacancies in the Agraran
Development Officer Service in the Department of Agrarian
Development. The examination will be held only in Colombo in
Sinhala, Tamil and English Medium. Candidate will not be allowed
to change the Medium after forwarding their applications.
Qualifications.—
(1) The age should not less than 18 years and not more than
45 years. The maximum age limit will not be applicable to
those employed in the Public Service/Provincial Public
Service.
(2) A Degree from a recognized University.
02. Conditions for Engagement in Service.— This is a Permanent
and Pensionable post.
Each candidate should posses all the relevant qualification by
the closing date of applications.
03. Salary Scale.—
Rs. 15,785-10x290-15x325-11x400–Rs. 27,960(Monthly)
(Salary Group - MN - 5)
04. Method of Applying. — The application should be in the
form of the specimen appended herewith on A4 (21cm x 29cm) size
paper. Including 1-10 numbers in the first page and the rest in the
second page and should be filled in correctly and legibly by
candidates own handwriting. In Incomplete applications will be
rejected. The applicant should bear the consequences incurred if he
submits an incomplete application.
In Sinhala and Tamil applications the title (the name of the
exam) should be included in English too.
The top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application should bear clearly “Recruitment of External
Applications for the vacancies in Agrarian Development Officers’
Service”.
05. The last date of applications.— The completed applications
should be sent by registered post to the Commissioner General of
Agrarian Development, Department of Agrarian Development,
P. O. Box. 537, Colombo 07 on or before 10.10.2008.
06. Attestation of the Signature.— Applicant’s signature should
be certified by a Principal of Government School/A Justice of
thePeace/An Incumbent of a Place of Worship/Attorney at Law or
an Officer holding a Permanent Post in the Public Service whose
montly salary is more than Rs. 22,935/- according to the Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006.
18. (a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed Services?
(if so, your application must be submitted through the
respective Service Commander) :———.
(b) Have you served as a V olunteer in any of the Armed Services?
( If so attach a Copy/Copies of your discharge certificate/
certificates) :———.
19. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence? (if so, give
details) :———.
20. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion, or convicted of any
offence? (if so, give details) :———.
I, hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable
for termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith
(even if I have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished
are fond to be incorrect or false.
————,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :———.
09-06
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1132
07. Furnishing false information.— If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior
to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished
by a candidate is found to be false within his knowledge or if he has
willfully suppressed any material fact, candidate will be liable to
dismissal from the service.
08. Recruitment. — Qualified candidate will be selected for
appointments in the merit order of the marks obtained at the
competitive examination held by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
The examination will consist of 02 question papers.
1. Comprehension - 1 1/2 hours
2. Intelligence Test - 1 1/2 hours
Comprehension.— Applicant’s will be expected to summaries
short passages into one sentence, give meanings for the underlined
words, select the most suitable statements and to answer questions
from a given passage. Also they will be given long passage to
summarize.
Intelligence.— This paper consist with multiple choice questions
which enables to test applicant’s power of logical thinking and
decision making.
09. Examination fees .— Candidates should obtain a money
order or a postal order valued to Rs. 300/- in favour of the
Commissioner General of Agrarian Development (To the Post Office,
Kurunduwaththa) and paste on the application form which will not
be fefunded.
10. Assuming that only those who have fulfilled the qualification
stated in the notification have applied, all candidates who have
paid the examination fees on or before 10.10.2008 and forward
their applications will be allowed to sit the competitive examination.
Receiving an admission card or letter of summoning will not be
considered as an acceptance that the applicant has fulfilled the
qualifications for the post. If an applicant is called in for an interview,
has not fulfilled the necessary qualifications according to the
notification an applicant’s right for appointment will be cancelled.
As soon as the admission cards are sent to the applicants the
Department of Examination will publish that in Newspapers. If the
applicants have not received the admissions even after 2/3 days
from the Newspaper advertisement, the applicant should inform
that to the Department of Examination accordingly. It will be more
effective if you inform by keeping with you the photocopies of the
application, receipt of the money order receipt of the registered
post and the fax number to send the admissions if you are living in
an area away from Colombo.
11. Only the National Identity Card or the valid Pass Port are
accepted attending indentification of a candidate in exam conducted
by the Department of Examination.
12. Candidates should abide by the rules of the Commissioner
General of Examination in relation to the conducting of the exam. If
these rules are violated he or she is subjected to be punished by the
Commissioner General of Examination.
13. The matters not relevant to the notification of calling
applications or not provided for in these regulations will be decided
by Public Service Commission.
By order of the Public Service Commission.
K
AMALA UY ANWATHTHA,
Actg. Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture Development
and Agrarian Service.
Ministry of Agriculture,
Development and Agrarian Services,
Battaramulla.
15th of August, 2008.
Competitive Exam to Recruit External Applicants for the
Vacancies in Agrarian Development Officers Service - 2008
Language medium for examination
Sinhala 2/ Tamil 3 / English 4 (Indicate the relevant
  number in the cage)
01. I. Name with initials : (In block capitals)
eg. SUNIL A. B. : —————.
II. Name in Full : —————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Address for which the admission cards should be forwarded :
(In block capitals) : —————.
03. Permanent Address : —————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
04. Sex : Female - 1, Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
06. Whether married or single : Single 1 / Married 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
07. I. Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date
Age as at 10.10.2008 Years Months Days
II. Are you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent/Registration
:—————.
III. National Identity Card No. :—————.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1133
08. Educational and Professional Qualifications :
(a) Degree obtained :—————.
Relevant Subjects :—————.
The effective date of the Degree :—————.
Graduated University :—————.
(b) Other Qualifications :—————.
09. Have you ever been convicted of any offence at a court of law?
If so, give details :—————.
10. Number and date of money order/Postal Order :—————.
Paste the Money order/Postal Order in this cage
11. I do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application is true and correct. I am also aware that if any
information provided herein is found incorrect or false before
the selection, I am liable to disqualification and to dismissal
without any compensation if found incorrect or false after the
selection, And also I agree by the rules of the Commissioner
General of Examination in relation to the conducting of the
exam.
—————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—————.
Attestation of the Signature :
I certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss .......................................................
of .......................................................... is personally known to me
and that he/she signed before me.
—————,
Signature of the Person Attesting.
Name :—————,
Designation :—————,
Date :—————.
(Official Stamp)
Report of the Head of Department if the applicant is in the
Public Service :
I certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss ................................................... is
employed in this Department as a .............................................. in
Permanent/Temporary/Casual employee. I certify that he/she has
not been convicted for any disciplinary action (except advised) and
paid relevant examination fee and the receipt of the fee is attached
in this application. I hereby forward his/her application with/without
recommendation.
—————,
Signature of Head of the Department
or Authorized Officer.
Name :—————,
Designation :—————,
Department/Institute :—————,
Date :—————.
09-350
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR DEVELOPMENT  OFFICERS  &  PROJECT OFFICERS
RECRUITED  UNDER  THE  MINISTRY  OF  PLAN  IMPLEMENTATION - 2008
THE Efficiency Bar Examination for Development Officers & Project Officers recruited under the Ministry of Plan Implementation
which should be passed before they reach the third step of the salary scale will be held in Colombo in December 2008 by the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The closing date for the applications is on 06th of October, 2008.
02.  Scheme of Examination.— This efficiency bar examination will consist of the following subjects.
(1) Financial Regulations/Office System (2h) Marks - 100
(2) English Language (1 1/2h) Marks - 100
Note :
(a) An officer may sit all subjects in one attempt or several attempts ;
(b) A candidate should obtain 40% or above, of the marks in each paper for a pass ;
(c) The exam will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium.
03.  Subjects.—
(1) Financial Regulations/Office System (2h) Marks - 100 (Subject No. 01)
(I) State Management Structure of Sir Lanka ;
(II) Financial Control and Annual Estimates ;

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1134
(III) Orders of the Establishment Code & Financial Regulations
The following Chapters of the Establishment Code will be covered I, II, IV, V , VII, IX, XII, XV , XXIII, XXVI,
XXVII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII
State Financial Regulations – 1st Section (except the Chapter X)
(IV) Office Management.
(2) English Language (1 1/2h)  Marks - 100 (Subject No. 02)
This question paper is designed to test the English knowledge required for the Development Officers to carry out their duties. This
paper will be in level of G. C. E. (O/L) paper and will consist of language knowledge, essay writing, precis writing, grammer a nd
comprehension.
04. Qualifications.— The officers who were recruited as a Development Officers or a Project Officer under the Ministry of Plan
Implementation are eligible to sit for this examination.
05. Method of Application :
(a) An application form should be prepared on a A4 size paper using both sides according to the specimen form appended at the
end of this notification. Column 1 to 7 should be prepared in the first page and other columns should be prepared in the
second page. The form should be filled in by the candidate’s own hand writing.
The application which are not according to the specimen application form and the applications which are not duly
completed will be rejected without any notification. (Keeping photocopy of the application will be useful) The applications
should be forwarded according to the specimen application form and otherwise they will be rejected. When preparing the
application, the Heading of the Application and the name of the Examination should be in English for Sinhalese and Tamil
applications.
(b) Examination Fees .— Fees will be charged from the candidates who sit for this examination on the following basis :
(a) For the first sitting Free
(b) For the whole Examination after the first sitting Rs. 115.00
(c) For a single subject Rs. 75.00
A cash receipt obtained from any Divisional Secretariat in the Island drawn in favour of the Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20-13 of
Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed to the application (Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful).
(c) Applications should be sent through the heads of the Departments by Registered Post to reach the Commissioner General
of Examinations, National Evaluation and Testing Services, Department of Examination of Sri Lanka, P. O. Box. 07,
Palawaththa, Battaramulla on or before 06th of October 2008. The name of the examination should be mentioned on the top
left-hand corner of the envelope. (Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful).
(d) Applications should be prepared in the language in which the candidates sit for the examination. It cannot be changed
afterwards.
(e) Applications which are not in the above relevant format and do not contain all information and delay to reach will be rejected
without any notification. No allegation that an application has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards together with a copy of the Time Table to all candidates
whose applications have been accepted. If a candidate doesn’t receive his Admission Card at least seven days before the day of the
examination he should communicate without delay with the following information to the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Division, Sri Lanka Examinations Department, Palawaththa, Battaramulla. The Dept. of
Examination will publish a paper notice as soon as the admission cards are issued. If admission cards are not received even after 2-3 days
of the paper notice, the applicant should inform the Dept. of Examination as specified in the notice. It is more effective to s end the
certified copies of the application and cash receipt and the Registered Post receipt, a fax number to fax the admission card if you are living
outside Colombo to Dept. of Examinations.
(I) Name of the Examination :————.
(II) Full Name  of Applicant :————.
(III) Full postal address :————.
(IV) A photocopy of the application :————.
(V) A photocopy of the cash receipt (only if relevant)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1135
07. Identity Cards.— Candidature will be required to prove their identity (in respect of each subject) in the examination hall to the
satisfaction of the supervisor. For this purpose any of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) A valid Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for Registration of Persons :
(b) A valid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations has the power to cancel or reject the candidature of any applicant who is unable to
provide any one of the above mentioned documents. Also, on the day of the examination, the Admission Card with the certified signature
should be submitted to the supervisor.
08. Heads of the Departments are requested to grant duty leave to officers of his Departments who have been issued Admission
Cards by the Commissioner General of Examinations to present themselves at the examination. The candidates are subjected to all  rules
and regulations imposed by Commissioner General of Examination. If such make of regulation is violated, the candidate should ha ve to
face penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
09. Any matter not provided for in these regulations, will be dealt with direction of this Ministry.
DHARA WIJAY ATILAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Plan Implementation.
Level 12, Tower 05,
Central Bank Building,
No. 30, Janadipathi Mawatha,
Colombo 01.
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Development Officers & Project Officers Recruited under the
Ministry of Plan Implementation — 2008
Note : This form should be filled correctly and legibly in candidate’s own handwriting.
Language Medium in which
you sit for the Examination
Sinhala - 2/ Tamil - 3/English - 4 (For Office Use Only)
(Put the appropriate number in relevant cage)
01. (I) Name with initials with initials at the end (In English Capital letters Ex: SAMAN, S. A.) :—————.
(II) Name at the end with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :—————.
(III) Name denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :—————.
(IV) Name denoted by initials (In English Capital Letters) :—————.
02. (I) Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :—————.
(II) Address to which the Admission Card should be sent to (In English Capital Letters) :—————.
03. Date of birth : Y ear : Month :    Date :
04. Date of assumed duties as a Development Officer/Project officer
(The exact date on which duties were assumed should be stated)
Year : Month :    Date :

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1136
05. Subjects applied for under Para 2 of the Gazette Notification :
(I) Subject :—————. Subject No.
(II) Subject :—————. Subject No.
06. Are you sitting for the examination for the first time ? :—————.
07. If not the first sitting, examination fees paid :—————.
Fee for the whole examination is Rs. 115. If it is for one subject Rs. 75. A cash receipt obtained from any Divisional Secretariat in
the Island drawn in favour of the revenue head 4000-20-03-20-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed to the cage
below. Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be usefull.
To paste the receipt
I hereby  declare that the particulars furnished in this application are correct and I am entitled to sit for the examination i n the
language medium indicated above, and I agree to abide by all rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
————,
 Candidate’s Signature.
Date :————.
Note.— The candidate should sign in the presence of his/her Head of Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of such
Head of Department or his local head.
08. Attestation :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss................................................ who is an officer in my office and who is k nown to me
personally has put his/her signature in my presence in this ....................... day of ........................... 2008.
————,
Signature of Attestor,
(Official Seal should be placed)
Name :————,
Designation :————,
Address :————.
09. Certificate of Head of the Department :
(I) The particulars furnished above have been checked and found to be correct ;
(II) I certify that the candidate is eligible to sit for this examination ;
(III) I certify that the correct examination fees have been paid and the receipt is fixed.
————,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Seal should be placed)
Name :————,
Designation :————,
Address :————.
09-402

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1137
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday )
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full pay-
ments to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be
accompanied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted
in payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of
the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 51 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8 , as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 31 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05. who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'09'05
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.09.2008
1138
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue, Kirulapone,
Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Dat e of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2008
SEPTEMBER 05.09.2008 Friday — 22.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
12.09.2008 Friday –– 29.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
19.09.2008 Friday –– 05.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
26.09.2008 Friday –– 12.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
OCTOBER 03.10.2008 Friday — 19.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
10.10.2008 Friday –– 26.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
17.10.2008 Friday –– 03.10.2008 Friday 12 noon
24.10.2008 Friday –– 10.10.2008 Friday 12 noon
31.10.2008 Friday — 17.10.2008 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 07.11.2008 Friday — 24.10.2008 Friday 12 noon
14.11.2008 Friday –– 31.10.2008 Friday 12 noon
21.11.2008 Friday –– 07.11.2008 Friday 12 noon
28.11.2008 Friday –– 14.11.2008 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.