

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS OF ELDERS
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 5 OF 2011
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 23rd February, 2011]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 5.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 25, 2011

<!-- page 2 -->

1Protection of the Rights of Elders
(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011
[Certified on 23rd of February, 2011]
L.D.—O. 23/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  PROTECTION  OF  THE  RIGHTS  OF  ELDERS
A CT , NO . 9 OF  2000
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Protection of the Rights
of Elders (Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011 .
2. The Protection of the Rights of Elders Act, No. 9 of
2000 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is
hereby amended by the insertion of the following Preamble
immediately after the Long Title to such enactment:—
“WHEREAS the Directive Principles of the State Policy
enshrined in the Constitution recognize the duty of
the State to assist in the full realization of the
fundamental rights and freedoms of all people; to
promote the welfare of the people by securing a social
order governed by justice; to recognize and assist in
the realization of adequate standards of living for the
people and to raise the moral and cultural standards of
the people and to thereby ensure the full development
of the human personality:
AND WHEREAS the state has recognized elders as a
group of persons who need to be cared for and
protected by the State, by treating them with dignity
and respect:
AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka has adopted and ratified
the United Nations Resolution No. 46/91 of December
16, 1991, which appreciates the contribution made by
elders to society and is mindful that the State must
provide the necessary infrastructure to assist elders
Short title.
Insertion of
Preamble to the
Protection of the
Rights of Elders
Act, No. 9 of
2000.

<!-- page 3 -->

Protection of the Rights of Elders
(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011
2
who are advancing in years to live a life which is
socially, economically, physically and spiritually
fulfilling :”.
3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of
that section and the substitution therefor of the
following paragraph:—
“(c) The Director, Department of Social Services;”
(2) in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section by
the substitution for the words “be appointed as a
Vice Chairman of the Council.” of the words “be
appointed as a full time Vice Chairman of the
Council ”;
(3) by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) of
that section of the following new subsection:—
“(3) The Director, National Secretariat for Elders
shall be the Secretary to the Council.”.
4. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended —
(1) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (g) of
that section of the following paragraphs:—
“(h) to issue an Elders’ Identity Card to every elder
in order to facilitate the receipt by elders of
the benefits and concessions available to
elders in both public and private sector
services;
(i) to establish an Elders Committees in every
Grama Niladhari Division, Divisional
Amendment of
section 3 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 14 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Protection of the Rights of Elders
(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011
Secretarial’s Divisions,  Administrative
District and Provincial Council area;
(j) to appoint Conciliation Officers conversant
with the problems of elders to assist them in
settling such problems;
(k) to disseminate knowledge of gerontology and
geriatric medicine among persons involved
in providing care for elders; ”and
(2) by the re-lettering of paragraph (h) as paragraph (l).
5. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following:—
“(3) (a) No person shall on account of age, subject
any elder, to any liability, restriction or condition with
regard to access to or use of, any building or place or
institution whether such access is on the basis of
payment of any fee or otherwise and where no such
liability, restriction or condition is  placed on any
other person.
(b) No person shall on account of age, deny any
elder, the use or enjoyment of any facility, benefit,
advantage or service, the provisions of which is on the
basis of payment of any fee or otherwise and where
such facility, benefit, advantage or service is used or
enjoyed by or extended to other persons.”.
6. Section 16 of the principal enactment is
hereby repealed  and the following section  substituted
therefor:—
16. (1) Every person or organization
whether voluntary or otherwise, engaged in the
establishment and maintenance of any
institution intended for providing residential
Amendment of
section 15 of the
principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section 16 of the
principal
enactment.
“Registration
with the
Council.

<!-- page 5 -->

Protection of the Rights of Elders
(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011
4
care for elders, shall if such institution has more
than five elders residing therein, register such
institution in accordance with the provisions
of this Act.
(2) Any person or organization who fails to
comply with the provisions of subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.”.
7. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)
thereof of the following new subsection:—
“(2A) The Council may require any person or
organization referred to in section 16 to furnish to the
Council any document or report which the Council
may determine as necessary.”.
8. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution for
the words “There shall be appointed for the purpose of this
Act” of the words “The Judicial Service Commission shall
appoint persons of eminence and integrity who have
knowledge and experience in the field of law, management,
human rights, social service, medicine or counseling to be
members of”.
9. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 24 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 24A  of that enactment:—
24A . (1) A Conciliation Officer appointed
by the Council shall mediate any maintenance
claim referred to him by the Board.
(2) Where a settlement cannot be reached in
respect of any claim referred to the Conciliation
Officer, he shall refer such matter to the Board.
Amendment of
section 18 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 24 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 24
A  of
the principal
enactment.
“Conciliation
Officers.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Protection of the Rights of Elders
(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011
(3) The Council shall determine the
qualifications and the criteria to be followed
in the selection of a Conciliation Officer.”.
10. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof and the
substitution of the following subsections:—
“(2) The Board may in awarding maintenance,
order the respondent to—
(a) deposit with such bank as may be
specified such minimum sum as the
Board may determine; or
(b) purchase an annuity with an insurer of
the value of such minimum sum.
 (3) Where the respondent fails to comply with
the provisions of subsection (2), the Board may
request the employer of the respondent to deduct
from the salary, the sum due to be paid by the
respondent to the applicant and remit such sum to
the credit of the applicant.”.
(2) by the re-numbering of subsection (3) as
subsection (4).
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Amendment of
section 28 of the
principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of Inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

Protection of the Rights of Elders
(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 2011
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.