

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 69
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 62
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"002 – 2017 ckjdß ui 13 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'01'13
No. 2,002 –  fRiday ,  jaNuaRy  13, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd february, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th  january, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
59
Note.– Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,001 of 06.01.2017 was not published.
Note .- (i) UnV Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist   
Republic of Sri Lanka of December 30, 2016. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2017
60
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2017
61
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2017
62
Posts – vacant
ATTORNEy  GENERAL'S  DEPARTmENT
Calling Application for Recruitment of Grade III of 
Office Assistant Service in the Combined Services 
1.0 APPLICATION are called for recruiting officers for 
the vacancies of Office Assistants in the Attorney General's 
department with the consent of director General of 
combined Services. 
2.0 candidates will be recruited for the existing 
vacancies on the basis of merit of a structured interview. 
3.0 Existing vacancies in the Attorney General's 
department is indicated by the table No. 08. Number of 
appointments and the date of appointment will be decided 
by the Authority. The Authority has the power to fill certain 
number of vacancies or not to fill any vacancy. 
4.0 Salary.– according to the circular No. 03/2016 
dated 25.02.2016 monthly salary scale entitled to grade 
III, II, I office assistant is PL-2016-A Rs. 24,250 -10x250 
-10x270 -10x300 - 12x330 - Rs. 36,410. to transcend 
Rs. 27,020 promotions should be obtained to Grade ii, 
to transcend Rs. 29,750 promotions should be obtained 
for Grade i, to transcend Rs. 32,780 promotions should 
be obtained to special grade. Payments shall be done as 
mentioned in the ii Sub document in the said circular. 
5.0 This post is permanent, officers should comply 
to policy decision taken by the government in the future 
about the pension scheme entitled. 
6.0 it is compulsory to serve a minimum of three years 
in the place of first appointment. However the appointing 
authority shall have the power to transfer any officer before, 
the mentioned time on the basis of special circumstances. 
7.0 Qualifications relevant for the recruitment of Grade 
III office assistants are mentioned below. 
 (a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) applicants should not be less than 18 years and 
not more than 45 years as at the closing date of 
the application. upper age limit is not relevant 
for permanent pensionable appointees in the 
government service. 
 (c) Should be of good character and good health. 
 (d) Educational Qualifications.– Should pass 06 
subjects with two credit passes in G. c. E. 
ordinary Level examination in not more than 
two sittings. 
 (e) Should not be an inappropriate person to be 
appointed in the government service according 
to the V th chapter of procedural rules in the 
Public Service commission. 
  it is compulsory for every applicant to complete 
all the qualifications relevant for the post on or 
before the date of which applications are called. 
8.0. Calling of applications .– applications are called 
for the filling of vacancies existing for the posts of office 
employee service as indicated in the following table.
Department Post Number of 
   vacancies
Attorney General's  Office Employee 16
department Service Grade iii
9.0 Structured interview.– as per the approval of director 
General Combined Service, applicants who have fulfilled 
the required qualifications will be appointed to the Grade 
III of Office Employee Service, thoroughly in accordance 
with the merit order of marks otained by applicants at a 
structured interview which will be held on the same date 
on which the interview for examining basic qualifications 
of applicants will held. the medium of language in which 
applicants prefer to be interviewed should be mentioned 
clearly in the application and the structured interview will 
be held in the same medium. 
Procedure of marking of the structured interview is in 
accordance with the table below :
 Criteria Marks
Experience gained from the post 10
(considered up to maximum of 5 years)
communication Skills 5
Educational Passed G. c. E. a/L Examination 5
Qualifications
 Passed Mathematics, English  10
 Language, second langauge and
 other official langauges with a 
 ordinary pass at G. c. E. (o/L) 
 examination (maximum of 
 5 subjects are considered)
Personality  5
Extra carricular activities (sports/social work 
 ...................... etc.) 5
Skills produced at the interview 10
full marks  50

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2017
63
Note.– Experience, educational qualifications and 
extracurricular activities relevant to the post should 
be confirmed by certificates. Said qualifications 
must be valid for the final date of which applicants 
are being called. 
10.0 accurate information should be furnished when 
completing the application. if it is revealed during the 
clarification of qualifications that a candidate is ineligible, 
his/her candidature will be cancelled at any occasion. if 
any information submitted by a candidate is found to be 
false he/she will be dismissed from public service at any 
occasion. 
 11.1 the application should be frunished in 
accordance with the specimen form. applications 
not conforming to the specimen and which 
are inaccurately completed or in incomplete 
condition will be rejected without prior notice. 
the candidate should bear the loss that will occur 
by not completing the application duly. 
 11.2 completed applications prepared according to 
the specimen attached herewith should be sent 
to the address - Attorney General, Attorney 
General's Department, P. O. 502, Colombo 
12, by registered post before 08th of february 
2017. 
 11.3 Please mention "Recruitment to Grade III of 
Office Assistant Service" in the left corner of the 
envelope included of application. 
 
12.0 all the applicants who have submitted applications 
on or before the due date will be invited by the attorney 
General for a structured interview on the basis of preliminary 
conclusion that only the persons with qualifications 
mentioned in the notification have applied. However 
such an invitation is not considered as the applicant has 
completed the qualifications relevant for the said post. If 
it is revealed that applicants do not possess the required 
qualifications at the occasion of verifying the qualifications 
after inviting applicants for an interview according to the 
notification, their candidature will be cancelled. 
13.0. one of the below mentioned documents must be 
submitted to the interview board to prove the identity of 
candidates : 
 (i) a valid National identity card. 
 (ii) a valid passport. 
14.0 director General of combined Services will decide 
on any matter which is not mentioned herein. all the 
applicants are bound to act in accordance of general rules 
and regulations in this notification. 
 Jayantha Jayasuriya,
 attorney General. 
Attorney General's Department, 
26th of december, 2016. 
SPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  foRM
recruitment to grade iii of office employee service 
For office use only
Medium of Language : 
Sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
English - 4
Ministry you prefer to serve :––––––––––.
department :––––––––––.
Regional Office :––––––––––.
01. Name with initials :––––––––––.
02. Name in full :––––––––––.
03. N. i. c. No. :
04. Permanent address :––––––––––.
05. Gender :  female - 01   Male - 0
06. date of Birth :
 
 y ear    Month  date
07. contact No. : 
08. Academic Qualifications : 
 (i) Results of the first attempt : 
   y ear :––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––.
 Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.   6.
2.   7.
3.   8.
4.   9.
5.   10.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2017
64
 (ii) Results of the second attempt : 
   y ear :––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––.
 Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.   6.
2.   7.
3.   8.
4.   9.
5.   10.
 8.1 details of G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
  (i) year and month of examination :––––––––––.
  (ii) index No. :––––––––––.
  (iii) Results :––––––––––.
  Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
09. Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
10. Experience related to post :––––––––––.
11. Sports and extracurricular activities :––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted by a Court of Law for 
any charge ? :––––––––––.
 (Mark P in the relevant box) (Give details if 'yes')
 y es    No
13. Affirmation of the applicant : 
 (a) i respectfully state that the particulars furnished 
by me in this application are true and correct 
to the best of my knowledge. i hereby agree 
to bear the loss that may occur by some parts 
filled incompletely and/or comleting incorrectly. 
further, i state that i have completed accurately 
all the parts contained herein. 
 (b) i am aware that, if the statement made by 
me is proven false, i shall be subjected to be 
disqualified prior to the appointment and to be 
dismissed from service after the appointment. 
 (c) i shall not alter any of the information mentioned 
herein later. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
01–259  
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  NAvAL  fORCE
vacancies 
VacaNciES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Naval force 
for Officer Cadets.
2. applications are invited from male candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below : 
(a) Enlistments are made in the following branches to 
follow degree programmes affiliated to Sir John 
Kotalawala defence university.
 (1)  Executive Branch
 (2) Provost Branch
 (3) Logistics Branch
 (4) Patrolmen Branch 
  Be eligible to apply for the relevant branch, 
the applicant should have passed six subjects 
including Mathematics and English with credit 
passes at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination in not 
more than two sittings and should have passed 
03 subjects indicated in line with the relevant 
branch mentioned below at the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination in one sitting. the applicant 
should have obtained 30 marks for the common 
General test and should have obtained 
minimum entry qualification for university 
admission at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination (a 
certified copy of the result sheet issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations should 
be attached) :
 (1)  Executive branch  -  Physical or 
Biological 
 (2) Provost/Patrolmen  - Science, commerce, 
  branch   t echnical or arts
 (3) Logistics branch -  commerce
(b)  Marine Engineering degree Programms (Local/
foreign)
 Be eligible to apply for the relevant branch, 
the applicant should have passed six subjects 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2017
65
including Mathematics and Englihs with credit 
passes at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination in not 
more than two sittings and should have passed 
combine Mathematics, Physics and chemistry at 
the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in one sitting. the 
applicant should have obtained 30 marks for the 
common General test and should have obtained 
minimum entry qualification for university 
admission at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination (a  
certified copy of the result sheet issued by the 
commissioner General of Examination should 
be attached).
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the 
following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri 
Lanka Regular Naval force.
 (a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) age : Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 22 years as at 22nd 
february, 2017
 (c) Height : 168cm and above (171cm and 
above for provost Branch)
 (d) Weight : 52kg or above
 (e) chest : 81cm (Minimum)
 (f) colour Vision  : Std ii
 (g) Visual acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles and lenses)
 (h) civil Status : candidates must be unmarried. 
No Officer Cadet will be 
permitted to get married whilst 
under training and for a further 
period of one (1) year from the 
date of commissioning. 
4. due considerations will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports. 
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirement of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. on arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will 
be measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight 
are below the standard specified in the Gazette notification 
and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
any candidate who may have a special skill or value to 
the service may at the discretion of the commander of the 
Sri Lanka Navy be considered even though he may not 
have the requisite height provided he possess the requisite 
academic and professional qualifications. 
6. Conditions of service : 
 (a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the Sri Lanka 
Navy as an officer cadet on a regular engagement 
in the same manner as for other ranks and will 
undergo a Basic training course. on successful 
completion of training, the duration of which will 
depend on the branch, the status allocated on his 
enlistment as an other Ranks will lapse and will 
receive a permanent commission in the rank of 
acting Sub Lieutenant.
 (b) Officer Cadets will be requried to undergo 
training at a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as 
decided by the commander of the Navy in 
consultation with the Ministry of defence. 
 (c) During the period of training as Officer Cadets 
and thereafter, personnel will be subject to Naval 
Law.
 (d) Every officer cadet will be provided all items of 
uniforms, equipment and medical facilities. 
 (e) During the period of training, an Officer Cadet 
will be provided with food and accommodation 
by the Sri Lanka Navy.  
 (f) In the event an officer cadet voluntarily terminates 
his candidature for a commission during training 
he will be required to refund to the Republic of 
Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time 
by the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such 
officer cadet. 
 (g) If at any time during his course a Officer Cadet 
is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable 
for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within 
his control to qualify for a commission, he will 
be required to refund to the Sri Lanka Navy all 
expenses incurred on his training and will be 
required to enter into a bond to this effect with 
the commander of the Navy acting on behalf of 
the Government of Sri Lanka. 
 (h) candidates who possess the requirement 
as per para. 2 and 3 will be called for the 
Medical Examination, Physical Endurance 
Test and Officer quailfy test. Candidates who 
successfully complete these tests will be called 
for the perliminary interview and those who pass 
preliminary interview will be cased for the final 
interview. the required number of candidates 
per branch will be selected according to merit at 
these interviews and tests. 
 (J) A married Officer may be provided with a 
married quarter if available. Recovery of rental 
will be as applicable to public servants. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2017
66
 (k) All officers are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time.
 (l) All officers are governed by Naval Law. 
7. Official Language Requirements.– the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
Language act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances.– Salary and wages are paid with 
effect from 01.01.2016 as per the Management circular 
No. 03/2016.
 (a) initial Salary - Rs. 32,380.00
 (b) cost of living - Rs.7,800.00
 (c) uniform cleaning - Rs.255.00
  allowance
 (d) Hardline allowance - Entitled after basic 
  (operational areas)   training
 (e) Hardline allowance - Entitled after basic 
  (Non-operational  training
  areas)
 (f) other allowances - Special allowance 
    Rs. 1,000   
Special additional 
allowance Rs. 3,000 
Note.– The initial salary of an officer cadets is                              
Rs. 32,380 with effect from 01.01.2020 and it will 
be revised with effect from 01.01.2016 as follows :
01.01.2016 - Rs. 18,984.00 - adjustment allowance      
Rs. 9,778.00
01.01.2017 - Rs. 22,333.00 - adjustment allowance.
01.01.2018 - Rs. 25,682.00 - adjustment allowance  
Rs. 3,080.00
01.01.2019 - Rs. 29,031.00 - NiL
01.01.2020 - Rs. 32,380.00 - NiL
 
 (g) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (h) three sets of holiday railway warrants per year 
(For Officer, spouse children and dependents as 
applicable). 
 (i) an additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in 
wordroom to travel from the wordroom to their 
hometown once a month.
 (j) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (k) Free medical facilities (for officer, spouse, 
children and dependents as applicable)
 (l) Rent allowances for married officers not in 
occupation of a Government married quarter 
from Rs. 1,600.00 to Rs. 4,250.00 per month.
9. Instructions to applicants :-
 (a) applications should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification and 
should be completed clearl y in applicant's own 
handwriting. duly completed applications 
should be forwarded to Senior Staff Officer 
(Recruitment), P. O. Box 593, Navy Headquarters, 
colombo 01 under registered cover on or before 
1200 hrs. on 22nd february 2017. the top left 
hand corner of the envelope containing the 
application should bear "Post of Cadet Officer", 
applications received after the closing date and 
time and applications do not comply with the 
conditions stipulated in the Gazette notification 
will not be entertained. further information 
could be obtained from www.navy.lk or contact 
0112215154.
 (b)  candidates who are in Government Service/
corporations/Boards/civil Establishments should 
orward their applications through their Heads of 
department/corporations/Boards/civil 
Establishments and should bear a certificate to 
the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected.  
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon to 
do so:-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth;
 (2) Certificates in support of the educational 
qualifications required for the branch applied 
for;
 (3) School leaving certificate;
 (4) Grama Niladari certificate (Taken within six 
month to closing date);

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2017
67
 (5) Certificates of trade / technical training and / or 
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized 
institution;
 (6) Two recent certificates of character. One of 
these should be from the Principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has the known the 
applicant for more than two years or from the 
present employer (if employed);   
 (7) Certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc.
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form. 
 (f) the Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for 
loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed 
with the application form.
10. any Statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification, 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection.
11. Selection Interviews etc. :-
 (a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. 
candidates so selected will be required to undergo 
tests as may be prescribed by the commander of 
the Navy. The final selection will then be made 
after an interview of those selected candidates by 
a selection board appointed by the Ministry of 
defence. 
 (b) Requirements to be fulfilled at the Physical 
Endurance test : 
exercise  Rounds Time
    (Minutes/ 
   Seconds)
1,600m run - 06 -08 minutes
Push up 25 or more 02 minutes
Sit up 25 or more 02 minutes
arm Bending 05 or more 02 minutes
Standing Board jump 242cm or more -
Rope climbing - -
Shuttle Run - 11 seconds
 (c) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date of 
such interviews. travelling or other expenses will 
not be paid in this respect. 
 (d) on every occasion an applicant is summoned for 
an interview he is to produce his National identity 
card issued by the department of Registration of 
Persons. 
 (e) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final 
interviews will be required to present 
 (f) themselves before a Sri Lanka Navy Medical 
Board. 
 (g) any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection 
of a candidate will result in disqualification of 
such candidate. 
 (h) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified. 
Note : this Gazette notification is published in 
Sinhala, tamil and English. in the event of any 
inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil and English 
texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
 Rc 
WiJegunaratne,WV ,RWP & Bar, 
 RSP,VSV ,uSP, ndc,psn.
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
Naval Headquarters,
Po. Box 593,
colombo 01.
aPPLicatioN foR officER cadEt iN                        
THE SRI LANKA NA VY
01. Nationality :––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if registration, quote number and date 
of certificate)
02. Stream applied (in priority order) :––––––––––.
03. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
04. National identity card Number :––––––––––.
05. Permanent address :––––––––––.
06. Postal address :––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2017
68
07. date of Birth :––––––––––.
08. age :
 y ears :––––––––. Months :–––––––.days:––––––––. 
(as 22nd february 2017)
09. Height :––––––––––, (cm) 
 chest :–––––––––,(cm) Weight :––––––––––, (kg)
10. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
11.  district :––––––––––.
12. Electorate :––––––––––.
13. GS division :––––––––––.
14.telephone Number :––––––––––.
15. civil Status :––––––––––.
16. Gender :––––––––––.
17. School attended :––––––––––.
18. Particulars of School unversity attended :
  Name of Type of Year of Subject passed 
  School/ examination examination (including
  University   Grading)
    ordinary
     Level:
    advanced
     Level:
    other
19.  Particulars of employment since leaving School/
university (if applicable) :
  Name and address Nature of Period of Service
  of employer employment From         To
20. Particulars of Parents:-
 Full Name Place of Occupation Present 
   Birth  Address
father
Mother
21.  Any Special qualification for the post :––––––––––.
22.  details of current achievements in sports (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated in with dates/ 
years etc. and standards/ levels acheived) :–––––––––.
23. other achievements note at School/university or 
outside organizations (Give details with dates/years 
etc.) :––––––––––.
24. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps or Boy Scout organization :–––––.
25. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy or 
any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications :––––––––.
26. Have you being convicted or bound over a civil or 
military court, if so give details :––––––––––.
27. if employed earlier in a Government department or 
in the Public Sector/Board/corporation (including the 
central Bank, National Bank, universities, joint Stock 
companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
28. Particulars of testimonials :
  Name  Designation Postal Address
29. declaration to be signed by the applicant :
i declare on my honor that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect 
of those candidates who are selected for the commission 
in the Sri Lanka Navy, published in the Gazette of the 
Government of Sri Lanka.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
01–317  

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'01'13
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2017
69
mINISTRy  Of  EDuCATION 
Selection of Teachers to follow Teacher 
Educational Courses conducted in 
Teachers' Training Colleges - 2017/2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited from non-graduate and 
untrained teachers, who fulfil the qualifica tions as per the 
circular No. 28/2016 issued by the Ministry  of Education. 
Teachers in the Teachers' Service/Teacher Assistants, 
who have not yet submitted applications should send their 
applications prepared as per the circular No. 28/2016 by 
registered post to reach, "director of Education, teacher 
Education administration Branch, Ministry of Education, 
isurupaya, Battaramulla" before 31st of january 2017.
this circular, application and the instructions manual can 
be downloaded from the Official Web site of the Ministry 
of Education (www.moe.gov.lk) or can be obtained from 
any zonal Office of Education. 
 
sunil hettiarachchi,
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education. 
isurupaya, Battaramulla, 
on 06th of january 2017.
01-316
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.