

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 657
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 652
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"961 – 2016 wfm%a,a ui 01 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'04'01
No. 1,961 –  FRIDAY ,  APRIL  01, 2016
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd April, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th  April, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
649
Note.— “Matara Season” Organization (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 01, 2016.
N. B.– Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1960 of 24.03.3016 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
650
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are rele ased for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
651
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should perso nally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
652
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths 
 
TRINCOMALEE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
13th March, 2016.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Trincomalee Gomarankadawela Post of Registrar of Birth, Deaths and  District Secretary/Additional Registrar
   Marriages (General) of Kotukulampattu  General, District Secretariat,  
   West Madawachchiya Division  Trincomalee. 
04–158
____________________
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths 
 
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
653
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
15th March, 2016.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Mahawewa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
   in Pitigal Koralaya South Division and  General, District Secretariat,  
   Births and Deaths of Mahawewa Division  Puttalam. 
04–268
____________________
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths 
 
BADULLA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th March, 2016.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
654
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
    Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Soranathota Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
   (Kandyan/General) of Viyaluwa Division  General, District Secretariat,  
     Badulla. 
04–267
____________________
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’S   DEP ARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages 
 
TRINCOMALEE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions setout in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to 
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development 
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District 
Registries. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd May, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
14th March, 2016.
Schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
   Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Trincomalee Muthur Post of Registrar of additional Muslim  District Secretary/Additional Registrar
   Marriages of Muthur Division  General, District Secretariat,  
     Trincomalee. 
04–157

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
655
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Recruitment to the Post of Secretary, Grade I in the 
Executive Service Category of the Department of Law 
Commission - 2016
BY the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, applications are 
invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the under mentioned 
qualifications in order to recruit a suitable person to fill the 
vacancy in the post of Secretary, Grade I in the Executive Service 
Category of the Department of Law Commission. Applications 
forms prepared as per the specimen form appended at the end of 
this notice should be sent by registered post to reach the "Secretary, 
Ministry of Justice, Superior Courts Complex, Colombo 12" 
on or before the closing date of applications mentioned below. 
The words "Recruitment to the Post of Secretary, Grade I in 
the Executive Service Category of the Department of Law 
Commission" should be written on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope containing the application form. 
Closing date of application will be 29.04.2016.    
Note.– No allegation that an application form or a 
document respecting such form has been lost or 
delayed in the post can be considered. Applicants who 
delay their applications until the last day will be so at 
their own risk. 
01. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitments will be made 
on the order of merit secured at a structured interview to be 
conducted by an interview board to be appointed by the Cabinet 
of Ministers. The date on which such recruitment will take effect 
will be decided in accordance with the order of the Cabinet of 
Ministers. 
02. Terms of engagement : 
 (i) This post is permanent. It is pensionable. 
 (ii)  An officer recruited to this post holds liable to act in the 
new post for a period of one (01) year from the date on 
which his/her new appointment takes effect. In case an 
officer who has not passed Efficiency Bar Examination 
III, is required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination 
before the expiry of five (05) years from the date on 
which the recruitment will be made to this post. 
 (iii) An officer recruited to this post should, in terms of 
the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and 
the Circulars issued incidental thereto, acquire the 
prescribed language proficiency within five (05) years 
of appointing to this post. The officer who enters the 
public service in a medium of language other than in 
a medium of any of the official languages will require 
to reach within three (03) years a requisite standard 
of proficiency in one official language and within five 
(05) years in the other official language. 
 (iv) This appointment will be subjected to the Cabinet 
Decisions, the Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
Commission, Establishments Code of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations, 
Departmental Orders and any other regulations and 
orders issued from time to time by the Government. 
03. Salary Scale. – In terms of the Public Administration 
Circular No. 03/2016, this post which is under            
SL-1-2016, carries a salary of Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 
-8x1,630 -17x 2,170 - Rs. 110,895 per month and the 
initial salary scale amounts to Rs. 76,175 at salary step 
20 as per grading system. (In terms of the provisions 
set out in the Schedule II of the Public Administation 
Circular No. 03/2016). 
04. Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational Qualifications. – Should have possessed 
a Post Graduate Degree in law conferred on by 
a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission. 
 (ii) Professional Qualifications.– Should be an officer in a 
post of the Executive Service Category in the Ministry 
of Justice or any other Ministry/Department as per the 
Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 and an 
Attorney-at-Law enrolled by the Supreme Court. 
 (iii) Experience : 
 ( a) Should, as per the Public Administration Circular 
No. 03/2016, be an officer, Grade I in the Executive 
Service Category or be an officer, Grade II in 
the Executive Service Category with seven (07) 
year dynamic and satisfactory proof of service 
immediately preceding the closing date of calling 
for applications, having earned seven (07) 
consecutive salary increments prescribed in respect 
of that period. 
 ( b) Should furnished a satisfactory performance 
appraisal or a higher degree of satisfactory 
performance appraisal for the 05 years immedaitely 
preceding the closing date of calling for 
applications. 
 ( c) Should not, during the 05 years immediately 
preceding the date on which the recruitment will 
be made to this post have been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishments. 
05. Age limit.– Not applicable. 
06. Physical Fitness. – Every applicant should be in good 
mental and physical order to serve in any part of the island and to 
discharge the duties and functions of the post. 
07. Other Qualifications. – Every applicant must furnish 
satisfactory proof to the effect that he/she :
 (i) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Is of excellent moral character, 
 (iii) Has good command of English,

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
656
 (iv) Has fulfilled the necessary qualifications in every 
respect as at the closing date of calling for applications 
referred to in this notice of calling for applications. 
08. Structured interview.– Recruitment will be made on the 
order of merit at a structured interview to be conducted by an 
interview board to be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The 
qualification will be checked by the Interview board. 
09. Method of Marking at the Interview : 
  Spheres in respect of  Maximum Pass
  which marks are awarded marks that  mark
    could be
   awarded
01. Additional Educational 45 
 Qualifications
02. Local/Foreign trainings 20 Not
03. Research papers and legal texts etc. 20 applicable
 published by the applicant
04. Additional experience 10
05. Leadership, personality and  05
 communication skills as per the 
 discretion of the interview board
     Total 100
10. (i) Applications should be prepared on a A4 paper of 
22x29cm in size using both si des and items from 01 
to 14 to appear on the first page and from 15 onwards 
on the second page and it should be filled by the 
candidate's own legible handwriting. Applications 
which are not in conformity with the specimen 
appended at the end of this notice or are received 
after the closing date of acceptan ce of applications 
are liable to be rejected without notice. Incomplete 
applications and applications of  applicants who do 
not possess the prescribed minimum requirements 
will also be rejected. Therefore, applicants should see 
that their applications are as per the specimen in every 
respect of applications will not be acknowledged.
Note :
 ( a) No documents or copies of documents should 
be attached to the application form. 
 ( b) Applications of applicants who fail to produce 
documents when required to do so will not be 
considered. 
 (ii) Applications from officers who are in the Public 
Servie/Provincial Public Service/Public Corporations 
are required to be forwarded through the Heads of the 
Department. 
11. Order of the Cabinet of Ministers, Procedural Rules of 
the Public Service Commission, Circulars that are  not in force 
or may be issued from time to time in the future and the Scheme 
of Recruitment applicable to Officer, Grade I in the Executive 
Service Category of the Department of Low Commission and the 
amendments made thereto from time to time shall be applicable 
to this post. 
By the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, 
 Padmasiri Jayamana, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Justice. 
04th March, 2016.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
ministry of Justice
aPPlication for the Post of secretary, grade i in the executive 
service category of the dePartment of law commission 
 No. .............................
 (For office use only)
01. ( a) Name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  Name with initials ((In English Block Capitals) :–––––––.
 ( b) Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  Full Name (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
03. Permanent Address (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––.
04. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth : 
 Year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
08. Age as at the closing date of applicatoins :––––––––––––.
09. Race :––––––––––––.
10. Marital status :––––––––––––.
11. Particulars of the Post Graduate Degree in Law :–
 University :––––––––––––.
 Subject :––––––––––––.
 Date on which the Degree was conferred on :––––––––––––.
 Medium of language :––––––––––––.
12. Date of enrolment as an Attorney-at-Law :––––––––––––.
13. Experience as an Attorney-at-Law (Number of years) :–––––.
14. Particulars of service (Number of years) :––––––––––––.
 (i) Present employment :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Class and Grade :––––––––––––.
 (iii) Date of Promotion :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
657
 (iv) Date of Appointment :––––––––––––.
 (v) Date of Confirmation :––––––––––––.
 (vi) Salary Code and Scale :––––––––––––.
 (vii) Particulars of previous employment :
  Place of work Position held Period of Service
    (from ......... To ...........)
1. ..................... ........................ .........................
2.. ..................... ........................ .........................
15. Professional Qualifications as per the paragraph 04 of this 
notice of calling for applications : 
 (i) Whether you are an officer in Grade I of the Executive 
Service Category :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Whether if an officer in Grade II of the Executive 
Service Category you have completed a satisfactory 
proof of service having earned 07 consecutive salary 
increments for the seven (07) years immediately 
preceding the closing date of calling for applications 
:––––––––––––.
 (iii) Whether you have acquired a satisfactory degree 
of performance appraisal or a higher degree of 
performance appraisal during the five (05) year 
immediately preceding the closing date of calling for 
applications :–––––––.
 (iv) Have you, for the five (05) years immediately preceding 
the date of calling for applications, been subjected to 
any disciplinary actions :––––––––––––. 
16. Qualifications as per paragraph 09 of this notice of calling for 
applications : 
 (i) ............................. .............................
 (ii) ............................. .............................
 (iii) ............................. .............................
 (iv) ............................. .............................
 (v) ............................. .............................
 (vi) ............................. .............................
 (vii) ............................. .............................
 (viii) ............................. .............................
17. Languages proficiency (Mark P in the relevant box) : 
  Very Good Good Ordinary  Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English 
Applicant's Declaration 
I, ......................................................................... declare that 
the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and 
correct to the best of my knowledge. I certify that I have not been 
subject to any form of disciplinary action including dismissal 
from the service or retirement for general inefficiency as a 
merciful alternative to dismissal and I have not vacated the post 
previously. I am also aware that, if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, if 
detected before selection and to dismissal without compensation, 
if detected after appointment. 
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant. 
Date  :–––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department (As per the officer's 
personal record of file)
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................., 
the applicant above named is serving as ................................
. attached to ................................ Ministry/Department in the 
Public Service/Provincial Public Service and that he/she earned/
has not earned seven (7) consecutive salary increments for the 
period immediately preceding the closing date of calling for 
applications and that any disciplin ary action, except for warning 
whatsoever has not been taken against him/her and that he/she 
has acquired/has not acquired a satisfactory proof or a higher 
degree of satisfactory proof of work performance for the period 
of 05 years immediately preceding the closing date of calling 
for applications and that he/she has fulfilled the minimum 
requirements necessary for this post. I also inform that he/she can 
be/cannot be released from the service if he/she will be selected 
for this post. (Please delete words whichever inapplicable.)
 ––––––––––––– ––––––,
 Signature of the Secretary to the Ministry/
 Head of the Department and official seal. 
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––––.
04–237
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
Grade III of Sri Lanka Architectural Service - 2015
Applications are hereby called for recruitment of qualified 
candidates to fill 10 vacancies in Grade III of Sri Lanka Architects' 
Service on the order of the Public Services Commission. 
Applications prepared in line with the specimen applications 
indicated at the end of this notification should be sent by registered 
post on or before the date mentioned below to reach Commissioner 
General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination 
Branch, Department of Examination Sri Lanka, P. O. Box 1503, 
Colombo. "Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
658
Grade III of Sri Lanka Architectural Service" should be clearly 
indicated on the top left corner of the envelope. Further, the name 
of the examination should be indicated in English in Sinhala and 
Tamil applications along with Sinhala or Tamil languages. 
(a) Closing date of the applications is 02.05.2016. 
Note.– No cmplaint that an application has been lost or 
delayed in post shall be considered. The loss which 
may occur by delaying the application should be borne 
by the candidates themsleves. 
1. Method of Recruitment to the Service. – Number of 
candidates equal to the number expected to be recruited shall be 
called for interview on the order of the merit of the total marks 
obtained at the examination out of the candidates who have 
secured more than 40 marks for all the subjects at the written 
examination. 
The number of appointments to be made and the effective 
date of the appointment is determined on the order of the Public 
Service Commission. 
2. Conditions of Engaging in Service : 
 (i) This post is permanent. Contributions shall be made for 
Widows and Orphans Pension/Widowers and Orphans 
Pension. 
 (ii) The officers who shall be appointed to the post are 
subjected to a probation period of three years (03) and 
the First Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed 
within the period of said three years. 
 (iii) Officers who join the service in a non-official 
language, should obtain the proficiency in one of the 
official languages within the probation period and the 
relevant proficiency level in other official language 
should be acquired within 05 years as per the Public 
Administration Circular 01/2014. 
 (iv) The appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of 
the Public Service Commission, the service minute 
of the Architects' Service and the revisions made 
subsequently.  
3. Salary Scale.– As per the Public Administration Circular 
No. 06/2006 this post is entitled to the Salary Scale SL-1-2006 
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Monthly). 
4. Educational Qualifications.– Shall have obtained a degree 
in Architecture of five years from a University recognized by 
University Grants Commission ; 
or
Shall have obtained a Bsc. degree in Built Environment of 
three years from a University recognized by University Grants 
Commission and a Post Graduate Diploma in the relevant field ; 
or
Shall have obtained a BSc. degree in Built Environment of 
three years from a University recognized by University Grants 
Commission and 05 years experience in the relevant field. 
5. Age Limit.– Shall not be less than twenty two (21) years of 
age and not have reached 35 years of age as at the closing date 
of application. 
6. Physical Fitness : 
 (i) All the candidates should be physically fit for service 
in any part of the Island, 
 (ii) Should have the physical and mental capacity 
required to perform the duties of the post. 
7. Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Applicants shall be the citizens of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Applicants shall be of excellent moral character,
 (iii) Shall have satisfied all the qualifications required 
for the recruitment in each and every way as at the 
closing date of the application,
 (iv) Shall have not appeared at the Open Competitive 
Examination of Sri Lanka Architects Service Minute 
more than two times, 
 (v) Not being ordained in any religious sect, 
 (vi) The maximum age limit shall not apply for the 
officers who are already in the public service. 
8. 8.1 Written Examination : 
 8.1.1 This examination shall be conducted by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations.
 8.1.2 Syllabus : 
 No.  Subjects Maximum Pass Duration
   Marks Marks hrs.
1 Intelligence Test 100 40 1
2 General Knowledge 100 40 2
Subject No. 01 - Intelligence Test : 
This paper shall be designed to test the candidate's ability 
of critical reasoning, analytical power on issues, ability 
of decision making, ability of making judgments. This 
question paper consists of 50 questions in the form of 
Multiple Choice and Questions for Short answers and all 
the questions should be answered. 
Subject No. 02 - General Knowledge : 
This question paper shall be designed to test the understanding 
of the candidate on political, social, cultural economic 
environment of Sri Lanka, matters which are important 
in national and international aspects and national and 
international, scientific and technical development. This 
question paper shall consist of two parts. The first part shall 
consist of questions for short answers and 25 marks shall 
be allocated. The second part shall consist of questions in 
semi structured nature. For this part, the candidate shall 
answer 5 out of 8 questions. 75 marks shall be allocated 
for this part. 
 8.1.3 Issuing Results : 
  The results sheet containing the names prepared 
on the order of the merit of the candidates who 
have secured marks above the limit set as per 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
659
the order of the Public Service Commission at 
the written examination, shall be handed over to 
the Secretary, Public Service Commission. The 
results shall be personally informed to each and 
every candidate who sat at the examination or 
shall be published on the website www.results.
exams.gov.lk
8.2 Interview :
 8.2.1 General Interview : 
  Number of candidates equal to the number 
expected to be recruited shall be called for the 
General Interview on the order of the merit of 
the total of the marks obtained at the written 
examination out of the applicants who have 
passed all the subjects at the written examination. 
  Verification of qualifications mentioned in the 
notice and the physical fitness shall be examined 
at the General Interview. (No marks shall be 
allocated).
  Qualifications shall be examined by an interview 
board appointed by the Public Service 
Commission. 
9. Conditions of the Examinations : 
 (i) Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English media. Candidates can sit for the examination 
in a language medium of their preference. Candidates 
must answer all the question papers in one language. 
Candidates are not allo wed to change the medium 
mentioned in the application. Every candidate must 
sit for all the question papers. 
 (ii) The examination fee is Rs. 1,000. It should be paid 
before the closing date of applications at any Post 
Office/Sub Post Office to be credited to Revenue 
Head 2003-02-13 of Commissioner General of 
Examinations. One edge of the receipt obtained thus 
in the name of the candidate should be pasted in the 
relevant cage of the applica tion form. It is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt. Money Orders or 
Stamps are not accepted for examination fees. 
 (iii) The fee shall not be paid back under any circumstances.
 (iv) The date of the examination shall be informed in due 
course. 
 (v) Applications which are not duly perfected are 
rejected. 
Note.– No candidate shall be allowed to enter the 
examination hall without the admission card. 
Every candidate must get his signature attested in 
advance and hand over the admission card to the 
supervisor on the first day he presents himself for 
the examination. Issuance of an admission card 
to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/
she has fulfilled the qualifications to appear at the 
examination. 
 (vi) Applications   should be prepared in A4 papers of 22-
29 cm. It should be specially noted that the application 
forms should be prepared that titles 1.0 to 2.9 appear 
on the first paper 2.10 to 5.0 appear on the second 
paper and the rest on 3rd and 4th paper. Applications 
that do not comly with the specimen and that are not 
completed in every aspect shall be rejected without 
notice. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
relevant application. 
 (vii) Receipt of applicatios shall not be acknowledged. A 
notice shall be published in the newspapers by the 
Department of Examinations as soon as admission 
cards are issued to applicants. If the admission 
card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such 
an advertisement, steps shall be taken to notify the 
Department of Examinations in the manner specified 
in the advertisement. It would be advisable for the 
candidates to send a request to the Department of 
Examinations with a photocopy of the application, 
registered receipt and fax number to which the 
admission card should be sent, if the candidate is 
living outside Colombo. 
 (viii) This examination will be held in July 2016 in Colombo 
and the Commissioner General of Examinations shall 
receive the right to postpone or cancel the examination 
on the approval of the Public Service Commission. 
 (ix) Candidates are subjected to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on conducting the examination and 
they are liable to be subjected to a punishment 
imposed by him/her for breach of these rules.  
 (x) Identity of the Candidate .– A candidate shall be 
required to prove his identity at the examination hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject 
he offers. For this purpose, any of the following 
documents shall be accepted :-
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the Department 
of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) A valid passport. 
N. B.– (a) No document or a copy of any document 
should be attached to the application,
 ( b) Applications of the candidates who fail 
to produce documents at the interview 
shall not be considered. 
 (xi) Officers who are serving in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service, Government Co-operations 
should send in their applications thorugh respective 
Heads of Institutions/Departments. It is compulsory 
for all the applicants to get their signature attested 
before appearing at the examination. Applicants 
who appear at the examination through an institution 
should get their signature attested by their head of 
the institution as well. Other applicants should get 
their signature attested by Principal of a Government 
School/Retired Principal, Grama Niladhari of the 
Division, Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, 
Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, a Commissioned 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
660
Officer of the Three Armed Forces, a staff grade 
officer of the Public Service or Provincial Public 
Service who earns an annual combined salary of                          
Rs. 240,360 or above, or a Chief Incumbent of a 
Buddhist temple or a clergy of any other religion who 
reserves a considerable status. 
10. Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– If a candidate 
is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled 
at any stage prior to during or after the examination. If it is found 
that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that 
they are false, or if he was willfully suppressed any material fact, 
he will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service. 
11. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil 
and English text of this Gazette notification the Sinhala text shall 
prevail. 
On the order of the Public Service Commission, 
  J. dadallage, 
  Secretary,  
  Ministry of Public Administration  
 and Management. 
March, 2016. 
(For office use only)  
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
oPen comPetitive examination for recruitment to grade iii of 
sri lanka architectural service (2015)  
1.0 Medium :- Medium of Examination 
 Sinhala - 2 Tamil - 3   English - 4
 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 
  *  The application should be filled in the medium of 
langauge in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination. 
2.0 Personal Details :
  2.1 Name in full (In English block capitals) :––––––––––.
   ( E.g.– HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
  2.2 Name with initials at the end (In English block 
capitals) :––––––––––.
   ( E.g.– GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
  2.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
  2.4 National Identity Card No. :
  2.5 Permanent address in English blocks capitals 
(Admission card will be sent to this address) :––––––.
  2.6 Permanent address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
  2.7 Sex : 
   Male - 0  Female - 1
   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.8 Date of Birth : 
    Year Month Date
 
  2.9 Age as at the closing date of the application : 
    Years Months Days
  2.10 Postal town :–––––––––––––.
  2.11 Race :  
   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   Sinhala - 1  Tamil - 2  Indian Tamil - 3  Muslim - 4
   Other - 5
  2.12 Marital Status :  
   
   Single - 1 Married - 2
   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.13 Telephone No. : 
   Mobile :
   Fixed : 
  2,14 Email address :–––––––––––––.
3.0 Qualifications :
  3.1 Degree :–––––––––––––.
  3.2 Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––––.
  3.3 Index No. :–––––––––––––.
  3.4 Language medium of the examination :–––––––––––.
4.0 Paste the cash receipt properly : 
 Receipt No. :–––––––––––––.
 Office to which the fees paid :–––––––––––––.
 Date :–––––––––––––.
5.0 If you have ever been convicted of any criminal offence 
please mention the offence and the punishment :–––––––––.
6.0 Certificate of the candidate : 
I declare that information giving in this form is true to the best 
of my knowledge and  belief and that I have affixed the receipt 
No. ........................ dated .......................... being the payment 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
661
of the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules 
governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to 
cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, 
if it is found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of 
the examination. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by Commissioner General Examinations as 
conducting of the exam. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate. 
Date :––––––––––––.
7.0  Attestation of the applicant's signature. (as per Para 9(XI) of 
the Gazette Notifications) :
I hereby certify that ................................ (Full name) who 
submits this application is known to me personally, that he/she 
has paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant 
receipt herein. He/She placed his/her signature in my presence on 
....................... 
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the officer attesting the signature. 
Date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the official stamp)
8.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to the 
personal file) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ who 
is submitting this application, working as a ........................... 
Ministry/Department/Institute. He/she can be released from the 
post held at present, if he/she is selected for this post. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 (Signature of the Head of the Department/
 Authorized Officer).
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
04–288
–––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION 
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
Grade III of Sri Lanka Architectural Service - 2015
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from officers in Public 
Service/Provincial Public Service of Sri Lanka who possess 
following qualifications ot fill 09 posts which have fallen vacant 
in Grade III of Sri Lanka Architects' Service as per the order 
of Public Service Commission. The applications prepared in 
accordance with the specimen form of application which is at 
the end of this notification should be sent by registered post to 
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Organization 
and Foreign Examination Branch, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo 
on or before the date mentioned below. The words "Limited 
Competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade III of Sri 
Lanka Architects' Service 2015" should be clearly indicated on 
the top left-hand corner of the envelope. Further, It is essential to 
mention the name of examination in English language as well, in 
applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil mediums. 
(a) Closing date of applications will be 02.05.2016. 
Note.– No complaint that an application or a related 
document has been lost or delayed in post shall be 
considered. The candidate shall bear the losses which 
may occur due to their delay in sending applications 
until the closing date. 
01. Method of Recruiment. – Recruitments shall be made on 
the results of a written examination and structured interview. A 
number equivalent to twice the number of recruitments to be made 
out of those who have secured 40% or above for each subject of 
this examination shall be called for the structured interview on 
the order of merit of marks. Recruitments shall be made on the 
order of merit of the aggregate they receive when the marks they 
obtain at the structured interview are added to the marks they 
secure at the written examination. 
Number of appointments and effective date shall be determined 
on the order of Public Service Commission. In case where there 
is no sufficient number of qualified applicants under the limited 
stream, the recruitment to be made under limited stream shall also 
be made under the open stream.
02. Conditions for employment in the Service : 
 (i) This post is permanent and pensionable Contributions 
shall be made to the Widows' and Orphans/Widowers' 
and Orphans Pension. 
 (ii) Officers who are appointed to this post shall be 
subjected to an acting period of one year. 
 (iii) Officers shall obtain proficiency in the other official 
language at the relevant level within 05 years as per             
P. A. Circular 01/2014. 
 (iv) This appointment shall be subjected to the Procedural 
Rules of Public Service Commission and the conditions 
stipulated in Sri Lanka Architects' Service Minute and 
revisions made to the same. 
03. Salary Scale. – A salary scale (monthly) of SL-1-2006                   
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 shall be 
entitled to this post as per Public Administration Circular 
No. 6/2006.
04. Educational Qualifications : 
 (i) Development Assistants who have obtained a degree 
in Built Environment from a University recognized 
by the University Grants Commission and have a 
permanent and satisfactory service of five (5) years 
in Public Service. 
 (ii) Officers who have passed Part I of the Standard 
Course at Sri Lanka Archiects' Institute and 
have completed a service of 10 years in public 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
662
service along with satisfactory service of 05 years 
immediately preceding ; 
And
  Draftsmen in special class of Sri Lanka Technological 
Service who have completed satisfactory service 
of 05 years immediately preceding the date of 
promotion.
05. Physical fitness.– Every applicant shall be physically and 
mentally fit : 
 (i) To serve in any part of the Island, 
 (ii) To perform duties of the post. 
06. Age Limit.– Not applicable. 
07. Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Applicants shall be of an excellent character, 
 (ii) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory 
service of (05) years immediately preceding the date 
of promotion. 
08. 8.1 Written Examination : 
 8.1.1 This examination shall be conducted by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations.
 8.1.2 Syllabus : 
 No.  Subjects Maximum Pass Duration
   Marks Marks hrs.
1 Knowledge related to the 100 40 03
 subject of Architecture
2 General question paper 100 40 02
Subject No. 01 - Knowledge related to the subject of 
Architecture : 
This question paper shall be designed in the following manner.
Duration - three hours. 
Two compulsroy questions shall be answered from Part I and 
II (20 each) four questions shall be answered out of the 6 
questions in the other three parts (15 each).
Pass mark is 40%.
Part I - Practical role of an architect in public service : 
  1. Difference of the practice of Architecture between 
public and private sector. 
  2. Scope, advantages and disadvantages of the role of 
Architect.
  3. Responsibilities towards general public. 
  4. Responsibilities towards organizations. 
Part II - 
  1. Basic studies and investigations : 
  2. Conceptual design and approach to basic estimates.
  3. Planning and formulating procedures and obtaining 
necessary approvals and clarifications.
  4. The set of plans to be prepared for obtaining approval 
from relevant local government institutions.
  5. Comprehensive field plans and specifications on 
Architecture.
  6. Preparation of detailed data with the co-ordination of 
other consultants (Structural and service plans).
Part III - Tasks of the organization and operational medium :
  1. Vision and mission of the organization.
  2. Role and task of the organization.
  3. Organization structure.
  4. Duties, responsibilities and interrelationship of 
each division in the performance of the tasks of the 
organization. 
  5. Links with other public institutions.
Part IV - Contribution of Architects to the project within the 
preconstruction period of the project. 
  1. Bid documents and estimate of institutions.
  2. Procurement guidelines.
  3. Pre tender meetings and tender activities.
  4. Technical evaluation and the types of tender boards.
  5. Agreements and awarding contracts.
Part V – Contribution of the Architects during the 
implementation process and post contract period of the 
project : 
  1. Progress review meetings at the site.
  2. Quality control procedures.
  3. Maintaining the co-ordination with construction 
groups.
  4. Estimating the built environment and activities on post 
analysis.
  5. Maintenance registers. 
Subject No. 02 - General question paper : 
This question paper is limited to 02 hours. It consists of two 
parts. 
Part I  :  This question paper consists of questions related to 
scientific matters in wide range covering all subjects. 
Part II : This shall consist of questions related to other general 
subjects such as economics, politics, culture and art. 
Structure of the question paper : 
 * Above question papers shall consist of multiple choice or 
semi structured questions or combination of both. 
 * All questions shall be answered.  
 8.1.3 Issuing Results : 
  A result sheet consisting of the names of applicants 
who have secured total marks above the limit 
prescribed as per the notice by the Public Service 
Commission prepared on the order of merit of 
the candidates who have become qualified after 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
663
appearing for the written test shall be submitted to Secretary, Public Service Commission. Results shall be personally 
informed to all the applicants who appear for the examination or published in the web site www.results.exams.lk.
8.2 Interview :
 8.2.1 Structured  Interview : 
  Sections to which marks shall be allocated after examining Maximum marks Total marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications :   20
 (i) Post Graduate degree obtained from a university recognizer by the  10
  University Grants Commission
 (ii) Full professional qualification 10
2. Additional Professional Qualifications  20
 (i) Publications submitted in relation to the present field of service (It shall be  05
  confirmed whether the ISBN numbers have been obtained and the media in which 
  such publications appeared shall be mentioned) (01 mark per each publication)
 (ii) Posts held at Local/foreign institutions in relation to the field of service (Relevant 05
  service certificates should be submitted - 01 mark for each shall be allocated)
 (iii) Awards/commendation received (Should be proved by form general 230 or  05
  acceptable certificates - 01 mark for each shall be allocated)
 (iv) Innovations made in relation to the field of service (The certificate issued by the  05
  institution which recognized such innovation shall be submitted) 
  (01 mark for each)
3. Professional Experience   55
 (i) Activities of architects regarding single building  15
  – Houses
  – Public Offices 
   (Houses and public offices of the government with the extent of 300 sq. 
   to 500 sq.)
 (ii) Architectural works related to semi storied 10
  – Housing schemes
  – Mixed development buildings (2 to 5 floors)
 (iii) Architectural works related to elevated buildings 10
  – Housing schemes
  – Mixed development buildings 
   (Storied building projects over 6 stories)
 (iv) Settlements and main project plans 10
  – Housing schemes
  – Master Plan
  – Mixed development buildings
 (v) Other   10
  – Additional designs (Eg. Exhibition grounds 
  – Contribution for social services 
  – Housing clinic 
  – Other educational courses related to the profession 
    (Eg. Green buildings)
  (Acceptable certificates should be submitted to prove the above facts)
4. Merit displayed at the interview   05
  Total marks   100
  Allocation of marks and verification of qualifications shall be made by a board of interview appointed by the Public 
Service Commission. 
 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
664
9. Conditions of the Examinations : 
 (i) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil 
or English media. Candidates shall sit for the 
examination in a language of their preference. A 
candidate must sit all the papers of the examination 
in one and the same language. A candidate shall not 
be permitted to change the language medium of the 
examination, indicated in the application. Every 
candidate shall sit for the 02 question papers. 
 (ii) Examination fee is Rs. 1,000. Examination fee can be 
paid in cash to any Post Office/Sub Post Office to be 
credited to the head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations and the receipt obtained in 
the name of the applicant should be affixed by one 
edge of the receipt in the relevant cage so as not to be 
detached. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt. Money orders or stamps shall not be accepted 
for examination fee. 
 (iii) Under no circumstances the examination fee will be 
refunded.
 (iv) The date of examination shall be informed in due 
course. 
 (v) Applications that are not completed in every aspect 
shall be rejected without notice. 
Note.– Candidate shall not be permitted to enter the 
examination hall without the admission card. Only 
the admission cards on which the signature has been 
attested shall be submitted to the supervisor of the 
examination on the first day of the examination. 
   Admission cards shall be issued by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations to the 
applicants those who have paid the prescribed 
examination fee on or before the closing date of 
applications and correctly perfected the application 
along with the receipt. The issuance of an admission 
card to a candidate does not mean that he or she 
has fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit the 
examination. 
 (vi) Application should be prepared on papers of size 22-
29 cm (A-4) and the Sections 1.0 to 3.2 should appear 
on the first page,  sections from 3.3 to 6.0 should 
appear on the second page and the rest should appear 
on the other page. The relevant particulars shall be 
furnished clearly by the candidates by him/her. 
Applications that do not comply with the specimen 
and that are not completed in every aspect shall be 
rejected without notice. It is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the application with candidate. 
 (vii) Receipt of applicatios shall not be acknowledged. 
A notice shall be published in the newspapers as 
soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. If 
the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 
days of such an advertisement, steps shall be taken to 
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner 
specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable 
to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the 
Department of Examinations ; i.e. a photocopy of the 
application form, receipt of registration, kept at your 
possession, in case of applicants outside Colombo, 
letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the 
admission cards should be sent. 
 (viii) This examination shall be held in July 2016 
in Colombo and the Commissioner General of 
Examinations shall reserve the power to postpone or 
cancel the examination on the approval of the Public 
Service Commission. 
 (ix) Candidates are subjected t o rules and regulations 
imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations on conducting the examination. They 
are liable to be subjected to a punishment imposed 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations for 
breach of these rules.  
 (x) Identity of the Candidate .– A candidate shall be 
required to prove his identity at the examination 
hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. For this 
purpose, only one of the following documents shall 
be accepted :-
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the Department 
of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) A valid passport. 
N. B.– (a) No document or a copy of the same should 
be attached to the application,
 (b) The Applications of the candidates who are 
unable to submit relevant documents at the 
interview shall not be considered. 
  Officers who are serving in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service shall forward their 
applications through their Heads of the Department/
Institution. The signature of every candidate shall 
have been attested by the respective Head of the 
Institution. 
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
Tamil and English text of this Gazette notification the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
On the Order of the Public Service Commission, 
  J. dadallage, 
  Secretary,
  Ministry of Public Administration 
 and Management.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
665
(For office use only)  
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION 
limited comPetitive examination for recruitment to grade iii 
of sri lanka architectural service (2015)  
  Medium :- Language Medium of Examination 
 Sinhala - 2 Tamil - 3   English - 4
 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 
  *  The application should be filled in the same langauge 
in which the candidate intends to sit the examination. 
1.0 Personal Information :
  1.1 Name in full (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––.
   ( E.g.– HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
  1.2 Name w ith initials at the end (In English block 
capitals) :––––––––––.
   ( E.g.– GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
  1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
  1.4 National Identity Card No. :
2.0  2.1 Permanent address in English blocks capitals 
(Admission card shall be posted to this address) :                
–––––––––––.
  2.2 Permanent address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
3.0  3.1 Sex : 
   Male - 0  Female - 1
   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.2 Ethnic Group :
   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   Sinhala - 1,  Tamil - 2,  Indian Tamil - 3,
   Muslim - 4,   Other -5   
  3.3 Date of Birth : 
    Year Month Date
 
  3.4 Age as at the closing date of the applications : 
    Years Months Days
  3.5 Marital Status :  
   
   Married - 1 Single - 2
   (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.6 Telephone Nos. : 
   Mobile :
   Fixed : 
  3.7 E-mail address :–––––––––––––.
4.0 Your service/grade (Class, Grade or Segment) out of the 
Departmental Grades mentioned in Para 7 of the Gazette 
Notification shall be indicated (if any) If you have served in 
more than one eligible service/grade, those shall be indicated 
with dates  :
  4.1 Post held at present :–––––––––––––.
  4.2 Service to which the post belongs ? (Public Service/
Provincial Public Service) :–––––––––––––.
  4.3 Grade :–––––––––––––.
  4.4 Class/Segment :–––––––––––.
  4.5 Date of appointment to the post :–––––––––––.
  4.6 Date of confirmation in the post :–––––––––––.
  4.7 Effective  date of the degree :–––––––––––.
5.0 Total per iod of permanent and continuous service as at 
closing date of applications in the services/grades mentioned 
in Para (7) of the Gazette Notification :–––––––––––.
6.0  Affix the receipt properly : 
Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
Office to which the payment has been made :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
7.0  Certification of the applicant :
I declare that during the five years immediately preceding 
.................... 2015, I have earned all increments (Except that 
the increment for which the passing of service or departmental 
examinations has been prescribed as a condition) and that I 
have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punshment 
(Except warning) for any offence. I declare that I am eligible 
to sit the Limited Competitive Examination and I have affixed 
the receipt No. ...................... dated .................... being payment 
of the examination. I also agree to be bound by the rules 
governing examinations and any decision that may be taken to 
cancel my candida ture prior or during or after the examination 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
666
if it is found that I am ineligible according to the conditions of 
this examination. Further, I shall be liable to be dismissed from 
service without any compensation, if it is found that any particular 
indicated in the application is found to be false or incorrect even 
after the appointment and I agree to be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by Commission er General of Examinations 
on conducting the examination and issuing the results. 
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
Date :––––––––––––.
8.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to the 
personal file) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ who 
is submitting this application has earned all salary increments 
during the period of 5 years immediately preceding ...................... 
(Except that the increment for which the passing of service or 
departmental examinations has been prescribed as a condition), 
has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (Except 
warnings), the particulars furnished in the application have been 
found correct according to available records, he/she is eligible 
to sit for this examination as per regulations stipulated in this 
Gazette Notification, he/she has paid the prescribed examination 
fee and has affixed the receipt and that he/she can be released 
from the post held at present, if he/she is selected for this post.  
 ––––––––––––––––,
 (Signature of the Head of the Department/
 Authorized Officer).
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
04–289

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
667
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 “GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA” 
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
 2.  All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Gov-
ernment Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
Court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 One inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 Two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  The “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'04'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.04.2016
668
IMPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2016
 APRIL  01.04.2016 Friday — 18.03.2016 Friday 12 noon
  08.04.2016 Friday –– 24.03.2016 Thursday 12 noon
  15.04.2016 Friday –– 01.04.2016 Friday 12 noon
  22.04.2016 Friday –– 08.04.2016 Friday 12 noon
  29.04.2016 Friday –– 15.04.2016 Friday 12 noon
 May 06.05.2016 Friday — 22.04.2016 Friday 12 noon
  13.05.2016 Friday –– 29.04.2016 Friday 12 noon
  20.05.2016 Friday –– 06.05.2016 Friday 12 noon
  27.05.2016 Friday –– 13.05.2016 Friday 12 noon
 June 03.06.2016 Friday — 20.05.2016 Friday 12 noon
  10.06.2016 Friday –– 27.05.2016 Friday 12 noon
  17.06.2016 Friday –– 03.06.2016 Friday 12 noon
  24.06.2016 Friday –– 10.06.2016 Friday 12 noon
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,  
01st January, 2016.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.