

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2012
551
551
wxl 1"762 - 2012 cqks ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'06'08
No. 1,762 – FRIDAY , JUNE 08, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th June, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st June,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 552
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in April - June, 2008 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.
Note.— (i) Inland Revenue (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka  of March 09, 2012 ;
(ii) Hizbullah Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka  of March 30, 2012 ;
(iii) South Lanka Academy for Tertiary Education and Leadership  (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part
II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of April 20, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2012
552
Provincial  Council  Notifications
GALIGAMUW A  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-laws
WE shall notify that the following By-laws are enacted by the
Galigamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the
Administrative Authority of the Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial
Council, under the power granted by Article 122, and Article 126 of
Act, No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya Sabha laws and these By-laws are
approved by the Minister of Local Government of the Sabaragamuwa
Province under the power granted to him by Article 123 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
M
AHIEPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
BY-LAWS RELATING TO THE REGULARIZATION
CONTROLLING AND COLLECTING OF CHARGES OF
THE L. P . GASEOUS CREMATORIUM
GALIGAMUWA PRADESHIYA SABHA
01. In terms of the powers vested in the Sabha under the Section
122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, this By-
law may be cited as the By-laws for maintenance,
regularization, controlling and collecting of charges of the
crematorium of the Pradeshiya Sabha. This will be come
into effect from the date published Gazette notification.
02. ( A) No any corpse shall be cremated in the crematorium of
the Galigamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha without permission
that issued by the Chairman or an authorized officer.
(B) Unless the Coroner or the Magistrate held inquest in to
the death of the corpse under the Criminal Procedure
Code, No. 15 of 1979 and at the end of the said inquest,
the permission has been given by the said Coroner or
the Magistrate for cremation the corpse, such corpses
shall not be received for cremation or issued permission
for cremation by the Chairman or the authorized officer.
(C) Unless the cause of death has been mentioned in the
seventh row of the death certificate and the crematorium
of the Galigamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha has been mentioned
as the place of burial and cremation of the said certificate,
such corpses shall not be received for cremation or issued
permission for cremation by the Chairman or the
authorized officer.
03. ( A) The Sabha will determine the fees to collect for cremation
of a corpse by a resolution of Galigamuwa Pradeshiya
Sabha and the fees determined by that way may be
amended occasionally by such a resolution.
(B) Fees, enacted under the above Section (A) or amended
occasionally, shall be published in the Gazette
notification and displayed as apparently at the place
where the applications are accepted to book the
crematorium and the premises of crematorium.
(C) The fees for cremation of a corpse may be enacted
under the classification that mentioned in following
Schedule 01.
(D) No fee shall be charged for the cremation of a corpse of
any Chairman, Vice Chairman, member or employ of
the Sabha who serves or had served at the Sabha.
(e) Even though a corpse has been delivered to the
crematorium, the Chairman has the power of decision
to bury the corpse, if the corpse shall be unable to
cremate before or during of cremation on electric failure
or technical faults.
04. Any person (hereinafter means Applicant) who intends to
get permission shall forward an application prepared
according to the Schedule 02 to the Chairman or the
authorized officer with under mentioned documents.
(A) To confirm the relation between the deceased and the
Applicant –
1. Birth certificate of the Applicant,
2. Birth certificate of the Deceased,
3. The certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari of the
Grama Niladhari Division where the Applicant lives ;
(B) The certificate of permission for cremation the corpse,
issued under Section 41.C of the Births and Deaths
Registration Act, by the Coroner or the Magistrate, if
he held inquest in to the death of the corpse under the
Criminial Procedure Code, No. 15 of 1979 or if a corpse
of a still birth, the certificate issued under Section 43.B
of Births and Deaths Registration Act ; and
(C) The death certificate of the deceased.
05. If it has been decided to issue permission for the application,
adduced to apply permission for cremation a corpse, it is
the duty of the Chairman or authorized officer to Schedule
such applications according to the receiving order. This
register should be kept in the Office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Galigamuwa.
06. If it has been decided to accept for cremation a corpse
according to the adduced application, Chairman or
authorized officer shall issue permission to the Applicant
after the collecting of due fee that levied according to the
Schedule 01. According to the said permission, it should be
clearly mentioned the time and the date that the corpse shall
be given to the care-taker of the creamtorium.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2012
553
07. If the corpse shall not be accepted for cremation, the reason
for that shall be informed immediately to the applicant in
writing by the Chairman or authorized officer.
08. Corpses shall be accepted for cremation of the crematorium
within the time period from 7.00 a. m. to 8.00 p. m. in
everyday.
09. Corpse shall be delivered to the care-taker of the crematorium
on or before the time mentioned in the permission. The
Chairman or authorized officer of the Galigamuwa Pradeshiya
Sabha shall not be responsible for any inconvenience or
damages, that cause from late delivery, to the Applicant or
any other person who has the rights of the corpse.
10. The assistant of the crematorium shall maintain a register
which recorded details according to the 2nd Schedule of this
By-law in connection with each corpse, that cremated in
this crematorium.
11. ( A) The ashes of the every corpse shall be taken by the
applicant or authorized person of him before the expiring
of seventy-two hours from the cremation in over.
(B) At the occasion of reserve the crematorium for cremation
of the corpse, a receptacle that mentioned the name and
address of the corpse (can be closed toughly) shall be
given to the care-taker of the crematorium by the close
relatives of the deceased for the deposition of the ashes
after the cremation of the corpse.
(C) Ashes disposed from the crematorium, shall not be given
to any other persons except close relatives of the
deceased.
(D) Even though on a written request of a applicant,
authorized officer or the Chairman may extend the
duration which the ashes is being kept under the custody
of the care-taker of the crematorium.
(E) The extension period, that is being kept the ashes under
the custody of the care-taker of the crematorium under
the Section (D), shall not exceed two weeks from the
date of cremation.
(F) The Chairman or the care-taker of the crematorium has
the power to dispose the ashes which had not been
removed after the extension period of removing the ashes
was over.
(G) The duty of the Chairman or the authorized officer is to
take actions to bury the ashes, that has been not received
by any applicant or his authorized officer, in the
premises of crematorium or any burial ground.
(H) The ashes disposed from the crematorium shall be kept
in the receptacle, leaved according to the provisions of
Section 11(B), with secure and deposited in the place or
room where reserved for same duty by the care-taker of
the crematorium.
12. ( A) No any other person shall enter to the covering partition
of the cremation chamber except care-taker of the
crematorium or his assistants after the corpse was
entered to the cremation chamber and the safe door was
closed of the crematorium.
(B) No person shall enter the premises of crematorium
without permission of the Chairman or authorized officer
or care-taker of the crematorium.
(C) However, what mentioned in the Section (B) –
(i) Any person or persons who came with the person
or authorized person, who has the permission to
cremate a corpse, to hand-over the corpse for
cremation ; and
(ii) Any person or persons who came with the permit
holder or his authorized representative to receive
ashes of any cremated corpse on or before due date
shall be considered as having permission to enter
the premises of crematorium.
(D) In the event of any problem that arises at the
implementation of these By-laws, the decision of the
Chairman shall be the final.
Any person who violates these By-laws shall be guilty
of an offence and on being convicted by a court of proper
jurisdiction shall be liable to a fine not exceeding
Rs. 750 and in case of a continued contravention, after
convicted, an additional fine not exceeding Two Hundred
and Fifty Rupees (Rs. 250) for each day of continuing
the contravention.
13. In the premises of any crematorium, no person,
(A) shall behave in a disorderly manner ;
(B) shall cause damage to the properties in the premises of
crematorium of Galigamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha ;
(C) shall disturb to the duties of care-taker of the crematorium
and his any assistant ;
(D) shall decorate or stick bills in the premises of
crematorium ; and
(E) The person who booked the crematorium, shall agree to
pay assessed value that determined by the Chairman, if
a damage has been done for any property or building or
instrument by the person who booked the crematorium.
14. ( A) It is the duty of the Chairman to maintain and update
the  crematorium in due condition for cremation of
corpses.
(B) If the crematorium has been closed for a short period to
restore or maintain, it is the duty of the Chairman to
display a notice in trilingual of that on a visible place at

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2012
554
the office of the permission issues and the entrance of
the premises of the crematorium.
15. In these By-laws –
the term "Cremation chamber" means the chamber that
deposited the corpse for cremation and the external chamber
that built out side of the said chamber ;
"Premises of the crematorium" means all crematoriums and
the land belongs to that ;
"Care-taker of the crematorium" means any servant who has
been appointed to care the crematorium and do the duties of
that ;
"Ashes" means anything that stands over the cremation of
any corpse ;
"Corpse" means all corpse of any deceased or corpse of a
still birth or a partition of a corpse.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and
Tamil texts of this By-law the Sinhala text shall prevail.
SCHEDULE 01
COLLECTING FEES FOR USING THE CREMATORIUM
Rs. cents
1. For the cremation of a corpse of a person 5,000 0
who resided within the jurisdiction area
2. For the cremation of a corpse of a person 6,000 0
who resided out side the jurisdiction area
SCHEDULE 02
(Should be forwarded in two copies)
APPLICATION FOR PERMISSION FOR CREMATION
OF A CORPSE AT THE CREMATORIUM OF THE
PRADESHIYA SABHA, GALIGAMUWA
01. Name (in full) of the Applicant :–––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
Number and the name of the Grama Niladhari Division :––––.
02. Name (in full) of the deceased :–––––––––.
Sex :–––––––––.
Resided address :–––––––––.
Number and the name of the Grama Niladhari Division :––––.
03. Relation between the applicant and the deceased :–––––––––.
(To confirm attach the certificate, mentioned in Section (A) of
the fourth By-laws).
04. Registered number and the date of the death certificate :––––.
(Attach the copies of the death certficiate).
05. Name and division of the Registrar of Birth :–––––––––.
06. Cause of death :–––––––––.
07. If the inquest in to the death was hold attach the certificate,
mentioned in Section (A) of the fourth By-laws :–––––––––.
Name and designation of the inquiring officer :–––––––––.
Date of the inquiry :–––––––––.
Conclusion of the inquiring officer :–––––––––.
Where the permission for cremation of the corpose is obtained
:–––––––––.
08. Date and time, applied for cremation (according to the wish) :
Date Time
(i) 20............. ................hours
(ii) 20............. ................hours
(iii) 20............. ................hours
(iv) 20............. ................hours
I hereby certify that all information mentioned above is true
and correct.
It further informs that I take the all responsibility of the
information mentioned here. (Related certificates have been
attached).
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
SCHEDULE 03
Mr./Mrs./Miss.................................
REJECTION OF ISSUING PERMISSION FOR
CREMATION OF A CORPSE
It is regret to inform you that issuing permission according to
the application forwarded by you and mentioned in over-leaf shall
be rejected on the following reasons :–
1. ............................
2. ............................
3. ............................
4. ............................
5. ............................
–––––––––––––,
Official stamp of the
Galgamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
Date : .............. 20.........
––––––––––––,
Care-taker of the crematorium,
Crematorium of the Galigamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'08
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2012
555
SCHEDULE  04
THE PERMISSION FOR CREMATION OF A CORPSE
(A) It is hereby give permission to cremate the corpse of ..........
at the crematorium at ...................  a. m./p. m. on
............................. day of ....................... 20......... information
mentioned in over-leaf application was recorded in the
registry of the Section 06 of these by-laws.
(B) It has been collected Rs. ................. by a receipt bearing No.
..................... and dated on ................. 20..............
(C) Take action to cremate the corpse after the recording as Tenth
By-law in the association with the information mentioned in
this permission.
(D) The serial number of the permit registry is ..................
–––––––––––,
Chairman,
Galigamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
Date :––––––––––.
(N. B.– Registry should be prepared as this upper partition should
be at left side and the down partition should be at right side).
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Serial No.
Name of the
deceased
National Identity
Card No.
Registry of permission
and Number
Death day
Birth Applicant's
certificate
Registered
Number
Date
Name
Relation
with the
deceased
01
02
03
04
SCHEDULE  05
THE REGISTRY OF PERMISSIONS THAT ISSUED FOR
CREMATION OF CORPSES AT THE CREMATORIUM
OF GALIGAMUWA PRADESHIYA SABHA
Deceased’ Order of Receipt’ Reserved
the for
Magistrate/ cremation
Coroner
Address
NIC No.
Reference
No.
Date
Number of the permission
Number
Cash
Rs. Cents
Date
Time
SCHEDULE  06
REGISTRY OF CORPSES CREMATED AT
THE CREMATORIUM OF GALIGAMUWA
PRADESHIYA SABHA
Serial No.
Name of the
deceased
National Identity
Card No.
Sex
Birth Applicant's
certificate
Registered
Number
01
02
03
04
Death day
Registry of permission and
Number
Date
Name
(N. B.– Registry should be prepared as this upper partition should
be at left side and the down partition should be at right side).
N. I. C. No. of the
 Deceased
Permission No.
Date of Ashes taken
Receipt Cremations’
Number Cash Date Time
Rs. cents
06–222