

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1949$3 - 2016 ckjdß ui 11 jeks i÷od - 2016'01'11
No.1949/3  - MONDAY   JANUARY   11,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
EASTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
By - Laws
NINTA VUR PRADESHIYA  SABHA
I, Nazeer Ahamed Minister of the subject of Local Government of the Eastern Provincial Council, do hereby Order publish the
approval granted by me under the power vested in me by Section 123 Sub Section (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of
1987, read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, the By-laws to Regularize,
Control and Supervise the Advertisements made by the Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha under the power vested in it in Section
126 Item (VII) (f) and (XXX) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987.
N
AZEER AHAMED,
Chief Minister of the Eastern Province and
the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister of the Eastern Province,
Inner Harbour Road,
Trincomalee,
06th November  2015.
BY-LAWS RELATING  TO ADVERTISEMENTS
1 These By-laws may be  cited as the By-laws  to regularize, control and supervise the advertisements displayed in
the area of Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha.(hereinafter referred to as the Pradeshiya Sabha)
By Laws

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
2A
2 The Pradeshiya Sabha shall
(a) determine from time to time the area in which the advertisement  would be permitted  to display in the  area
of the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(b)  the Chairman by order  publish in the Gazette  upon the  decision made  from time to time by   the Pradeshiya
Sabha in respect of the  areas where the  advertisements would be permitted to be displayed and  such
decision of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall  come into  effect  from the date on which it  is  published in the
Gazette or any future date specified therein.
3( a) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to erect and maintain hoardings where advertisements would be
displayed in any plot of land owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha in any area decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time as provided in  By-law  2 or in any  land owned by any other person and  leased out  by the
Pradeshiya Sabha  on an agreement.
(b) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to charge from the exhibitors a fee determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha  from time to time for displaying an advertisement in any hoarding erected by the Pradeshiya Sabha
under paragraph (a).
4( a) No person  shall display or cause to be displayed an advertisement in any form so as to be visibly seen  in
any public place in the area of Pradeshiya Sabha, unless   possess  a valid licence issued by the Chairman in
according to the specimen shown    in the First Schedule in that behalf,
(b) No person shall display or let any person  else to display of advertisements, at any place other than the place
or places specified in the licence issued to that person.
5 Every licence issued shall be valid only for the period specifically mentioned in the licence unless it is cancelled
earlier under these  By-laws.
6 Any person  seeks  to obtain a licence to display an  advertisement shall forward an application substantially
prepared in accordance with the specimen given in the Second Schedule hereof to the Chairman at least two days ahead.
7 The Chairman shall not issue a licence under  these  By-laws for the display of any form of advertisement, unless
the applicant fulfils the following  conditions;
(a) Application  shall be for the display of advertisement  in a place within the zone determined upon by
Pradeshiya  Sabha  from time to time in accordance with the manner set out in By-law  2.
(b) The application shall be of a place for which the license issued should have been expired. However, this
provision shall not be a prejudice  to   issue  a licence to display an advertisement nearby an advertisement
in existence displayed  under a licence previously issued and still in force in the same place  without having
obstructed  the view  of the same   advertisement being displayed.
(c) The advertisement for which a  licence is issued  shall not contain any scenes or words which are obscene
or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture or harming any religion or community or race or which can
cause such a situation.
(d) There shall be sufficient space in the hoarding which the Pradeshiya Sabha has erected  under By-law  3
when an application for  a licence is made  to display an advertisement and in that event  the period of time
permitted  for the advertisements already being displayed under a licence should  have been expired.
(e) No advertisement shall be displayed,   in  which the proposed display  has been  prohibited or limited by a
written law of the country.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
(f) Every application for  a licence shall contain a specimen of the advertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000
on a paper 210 millimetres by 297 millimetres and a ground plan or plans of the place or places where the
advertisement is expected to be displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 mm x 297 mm and  the
exact length and the width of the advertisement should  have been indicated therein.
(g) The  place of  displaying  the advertisement shall  be –
(i) if the  hoarding erected by the Pradeshiya Sabha under By-law  3, the fees determined under paragraph
(b) thereof shall  have been paid to the  Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) if the place is owned by any person other than the applicant, or by any other Authority, the  written
permission ensuing  that a permission has   been obtained  to display the advertisement at the particular
place shall be submitted along with the application.
8 No  advertisement shall be in a manner that may cause any obstacle or accident to a person walking near the
particular advertisement or to a vehicle being driven nearby. Furthermore  , fixing of electricity light rays or fluorescing of light
so as to change the attention of a driver driving a vehicle or cause disturbances to his view shall not be permitted.
9 The   applicant shall be informed by the  Chairman or the Authorized Officer regarding  the accomplishment of
conditions necessary for the issue of a licence under these By-laws.  It shall be the duty of the Chairman or the Authorized
Officer to issue the licence to the applicant after having paid   the licence fees in the manner set out in By-law  10 and  cash
deposit  set out in By-law 11.
10 ( a) the  annual licence fee to be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha on every licence issued under these  By-laws  shall
not exceed to the fee  mentioned in Column 1 and maximum fee corresponding to  Column II of Section 149
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act  No. 15 of 1987
(b) Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws shall be valid up to 31st December of the year for
which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of the By-laws.
(c) a new licence shall be   obtained when required to be displayed  the existing  advertisement during the
succeeding year. Notwithstanding  anything provided  in this  by –law  the fee already  charged  shall be
levied for the period the Pradeshiys Sabha  intended to be levied during the succeeding year.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Chairman   Oder publish in the Gazette the annual licence fees to be levied by the
Pradeshiya Sabha under the provisions of the paragraph (a) of this by- law
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the provisions  in these By-laws no fees shall be charged for any  advertisement
in respect of any religious or  cultural services.  However, the other provisions of these  By-laws shall apply
in respect of any such advertisement in the manner set out.
11 ( a) the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any applicant  seeking a license to display an advertisement  unless
the applicant pays the cash  deposited as determined  by the Pradeshiya Sabha
(b) It shall be the duty of the Chairman order  publish in the Gazette the decision taken by the Pradeshiya Sabha
in respect of the cash deposit  to be deposited in the Pradeshiya Sabha before  issuing  the licence to display
any advertisement.
12 It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate the registered number assigned to the licensee, in the lower corner,
right hand side of each advertisement or advertisements.
13 ( a) the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall have the power  by notice  direct the licensee to restore or
remove hoarding, support, structure  or fittings if any,  used for the fixing of any advertisement and which  is
in the  state of that causing  harm to  the environment or  danger or risk to any person  or any property of any
person, within a period specified thereof.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
4A
(b) It shall be lawful to the  Chairman or Authorized Officer to cancel the licence issued    under these By laws and
remove  the advertisement , if that person failed to comply with the direction given in  the said  notice  under
paragraph (a) above within the date stipulated.
 (c)  when a licence  is  cancelled compliance to  the provisions in paragraph (b) the cash deposit  paid  to  the
Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of displaying the  advertisement shall be transferred   to the funds of the
Pradeshiya Sabha and no person shall  have the  right to claim the same.
14 Pradeshiya Sabha shall not hold responsible for any damage, defacement or evacuation caused to any
advertisement by a third party  displayed under a  licence issued under these By-laws.
15 The Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel the  licence  by a notice issued to the
licensee in the event where  the licensee has  violated  any provision of  these By-laws.
16 It shall not be assumed or  understood the mere fact that  issuing of a licence by the Pradeshiya Sabha under
these By-laws for the display of any advertisement tantamount to giving legal sanctions for the presentation of the meaning
or the connotation embodied in the said advertisement.
17 The licensee shall hold  responsible  in regard to any damage or harm caused or likely to be caused to any party
due to a support, fixing or any other thing used connection utilized for the construction of any advertisement or due to the
menacing or connotation implied in the said advertisement.
18 It shall be the duty of the licensee to remove the advertisement and all other goods used in that behalf out of the
place / places where such advertisements were displayed, before forty eight hours  date  mentioned in the application
forwarded to obtain a licence under these By-laws.
19 ( a) the licensee shall  by a written request   withdraw the cash  deposited at the Pradeshiya Sabha  after having
complied with  the  provisions  set out in By-law 18.
(b) the Chairman shall ensure the followings before who release the cash  deposited  as described in paragraph (a)
(i) Whether the licensee has fulfilled  the obligations on his part properly as stated in By-law  18, and
(ii) that no damage has been  caused  by the licensee to the hording during the course of removal  of such
advertisement and in the event of any damage caused to such hording and is belonging to the Pradeshiya
Sabha  the licensee hold responsible to restore  the status of quo  of the hording before  the release of
such cash deposit.
(c ) the said cash deposit  shall not be released by  the Chairman   unless who satisfies   that no damage has been
caused as described in    paragraph (b) of this By law and in the event where  the  licensee has failed to  act
the matters such a manner set out  in by-law 17 or caused   damages to the hoarding of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
the expenditure  incurred by the Pradeshiya Sabha by either  attending the matters or repairing the hording
or  for both shall be deducted from the deposited money and the balance , if any, be returned to the licensee.
(d) It shall be lawful to the licensee to pay the additional expenditure incurred when acting in the manner set out
in paragraph (c) to  the Pradeshiya Sabha  in the event of  where  the expenditure incurred by the  Pradeshiya
Sabha is higher than the  money deposited.
20 The provisions in these By-laws shall not apply to  an advertisement  in the PradeshiyaSabha area displaying  in
front of any business premises or any factory to  a single notice depicting the name, address and the nature of the enterprise
being maintained at the said place of business or the nature of the products being  produced at the factory or for a domestic
name board and for  a single advertisement carrying the phrase "on lease" or "for sale" or "available for rent" displayed on
any property intended to be given  on  lease or for sale or to be given on rent. However,  the provisions of these By-laws shall
not apply to more than one l such advertisements displayed  at a time

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
21 The provisions of these By-laws shall not apply in respect of advertisements displayed by the Government,
Provincial Council or the Pradeshiya Sabha.
22 The  advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayed together with the name, number and/or
address of any business enterprise and an advertisement of  any form of commodity or service has been displayed in any
household, such advertisement or advertisements shall be subjected to the provisions of these By-laws. The owner, manager
or any person  in-charge of the administration of the premises at that  time shall be considered as the person who is liable  to
obtain the licence in accordance to the  provisions of these By-laws.
23 No person  shall fix, paste, hang, keep tied or project any form of advertisement in a tree, a trunk of a tree, a branch
or in any part of a public place or close to such a place or attached to a public building
24 The Chairman may delegate any power or function or duty vested in him under these By-laws to any officer of the
Pradeshiya Sabha in writing  and it shall be lawful to such person  to  exercise  and perform  such power or functions  or duty
so delegated  in writing and  act of  such person  shall be construed to be exercised and performed    by the Chairman within
the meaning of these By-laws.
25 The Chairman or any Authorized Officer shall have the power to examine any premises licensed under any of the
provision or provisions of these By-laws and it shall be the duty  to  the licensee to assist during   the performance of such
examination. Nevertheless, there shall no prevention or obstruction from the licensee in such examination.
26 Any notice issued to any person by the Pradeshiya Sabha or by the Chairman or by any Authorized Officer under
these  By-laws may be considered as properly delivered, if :-
(a)  it had been handed over to the post in a manner that could be proved that it had been delivered to be
directed to the particular person who should receive the notice; or
(b)  it had been handed over to him or to anybody residing in his address for the time being; or
(c) it had been pasted in any place in his residence or in the place where he is engaged in his functions; and the
handing over in any of these manners shall be lawful.
27 Any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha area  contravenes or violates any provisions provided under these By-laws
shall be an offence punishable with fines as described hereunder after service of a written notice by the Pradeshiya Sabha
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(a)  penalty of a fine  of  Rupees Seven Hundred and Fifty  for   any one of such contravention or violation and
(b) an additional fine of Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty for reach day during which such contravention or
violation continues.
28 In these By laws, unless the context otherwise requires –
"Area of the Pradeshiya Sabha" means the area of authority of the Nintavur   Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the Nintavur   Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Licensee" means any person who has obtained a licence under the provisions of by-laws of any part and includes
the guardian or manager of such licensed premises or any person administering such place for the time being ;
"Licensed premises" means any area for which a licence has been issued under provisions of the by-laws of any part;
"Authorized Officer " means any officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by the Chairman in writing for a
particular function ;

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
6A
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha  or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"advertisement" means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model or notice or announcement
or business notification containing any letters or words or illustrations used in advertising and displayed fully or
partly over or on a land or building or a created structure and being displayed for the information or attention of
the public and put in place by pasting, fixing, erecting, hanging or any other means;
"cut-out" means, an advertisement pasted or fixed in any frame prepared using wood or any other materials;
"hoarding" means any permanent board built in order to fix or hold any advertisement displayed for the information
or attention of the public.
FIRST SCHEDULE
By-Law No. 4
Licence for The Display of Advertisements In The Area of Authority of …… … … … …
 Pradeshiya  Sabha
Licence fees paid: - Rs… … … … … Serial No. of the licence … … … …
Amount of surety: - Rs… … … … … …
Mr/Mrs /Ms. … … … … … … … … … … holder of National Identify Card Number … … … … …… … … … and resident in
… … … … … … … is hereby authorized to display an advertisement/advertisements at the following place/places within the
area of authority of the … … … … … …Pradeshiya Sabha during the period … … … 20… to … … … … 20… subject to
provisions in By-laws relating to regularising, Supervision and control of advertisements.
Place/Places where authority has been granted to display advertisement/Advertisements.
1.
2.
3.
4.
.… … … … … … … … … …
Chairman/Authorized Officer,
… … … … … … … … … …
Pradeshiya Sabha.
Date : - … … …

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
SECOND  SCHEDULE
By-law No. 6
Application for display of Advertisements
01. Name of the Applicant: ———— .
02. Address: ———— .
03. National Identity Card No. : ———— .
04. Telephone No.: ———— .
05. Particulars of the advertisement: ———— .
(i) Size of the advertisement: Length: … … … cm, Width: … … … cm.
(ii) Number of advertisements: ———— ;
(iii) Contents of the advertisement: ———— ;
(iv) Manner in which it is put in place: ———— ;
(v) Locations in which it is put in place: ———— .
(Please attach a specimen mentioned in paragraph (f) of By-law No. 7)
06. Period of validation of the licence applied for:
Date of commencement: … … … … 20…
Date of expiry:  … … … … 20…
I hereby promise to obey all provisions in the By-laws relating to regularizing, supervision and control of
advertisements and to take action to remove the advertisement/advertisements relevant to the application and all materials
used in this regard out of the place/places at my expense, before the expiry of two days after the termination of the period of
validity of the licence
.… … … … … … … … …,
Signature of Applicant.
Date : ———— ;
01 -903/1

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
8A
EASTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
By - Laws
NINTA VUR  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
I, Nazeer Ahamed Minister of the subject of Local Government of the Eastern Province  Provincial Council, do hereby Order
publish the approval granted by me under the power vested in me by Section 123 Sub Section (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act
No.15 of 1987, read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989, the By-laws to
Regularize, Supervise and Control the Bakeries made by the Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha under the power vested in it in
Section 126 Item (IX) (h) and (XV) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987.
NAZEER AHAMED,
Chief Minister of the Eastern Province and
the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister of the Eastern Province,
Inner Harbour Road,
Trincomalee,
06th November  2015.
BY-LAWS  RELA TING TO BAIKERIES
1 These By-laws may be  cited as the By-law to regularize, supervise and control the Bakeries within the area of
authority of the Nintavur Pradeshiya  Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the Pradeshiya Sabha).
2 No person shall maintain a Bakery in the Pradeshiya Sabha area unless possess a valid licence issued by the
Chairman for the purpose of these By- laws.
3 Every licence issued under the provisions of these By-laws shall be valid up to 31stDecember of the year  unless
it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of these  By-laws.
4 The provisions of By-law 2 shall not apply to any Bakery maintained in the Pradeshiya Sabha area prior to  the date
on which these By-laws came into operation and  such Bakery  shall obtain a valid license as described hereinafter  and it shall
be lawful to maintain  such Bakery during such period in the Pradeshiya Sabha area subject to the provisions provided
hereinafter. .
5 Any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha shall make application to the Pradeshiya Sabha for a license for the purpose
to maintain a Bakery by such  application obtained from the Pradeshiya Sabha having paid such fee resolved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
6 It shall be the duty to  the Pradeshiya Sabha to  issue a valid license to a  person within 14 day sfrom the date of
receipt of such application  unless there is a valid reason to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
7 Any notice issued to any person by the Pradeshiya Sabha or by the Chairman or by any Authorized Officer under
these  By-laws may be considered as properly delivered, if  -
(a)  it had been handed over to the post in a manner that could be proved that it had been delivered to be
directed to the particular person who should receive the notice; or
(b)  it had been handed over to him or to any person residing in his address for the time being; or
(c) it had been pasted in any place in his residence or in the place where he is engaged in his functions; and the
handing over in any of these manners shall be lawful.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
8 The Chairman may delegate any power or function or duty vested in him under these By-laws to any officer of the
Pradeshiya Sabha in writing  and it shall be lawful to such person  to  exercise  and perform  such power or functions  or duty
so delegated  in writing and  act of  such person  shall be construed to be exercised and performed    by the Chairman within
the meaning of these By-laws.
9 The Chairman or any Authorized Officer shall have the power to examine any premises licensed under any of the
provision or provisions of these By-laws and it shall be the duty  to  the licensee to assist during   the performance of such
examination. Nevertheless, there shall not any  prevention or obstruction from the licensee in such examination.
10 Unless the following conditions described in this    By-law  is  fulfilled by a person , the Chairman shall not issue
a license to any Bakery: -
(a) The conditions in this part shall have been fulfilled irrespective of the medium in which heat is obtained for
food produced in the Bakery :-
(i) The Bakery shall be in proper maintaining condition ;
(ii) Every room in the Bakery shall have windows that could be opened to the outside. The area of the
opened windows shall not be less than one fifteenth the area of the floor of the room
(iii) Every room shall have ceilings fixed and the ceiling shall have been painted in white ;
(iv) The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiled ;
(v) While the room in which the oven of the Bakery is located shall be at least in a height of 3 meters from
the ground level of the room, it shall be built in bricks or cement blocks or cabook blocks with both
sides of the walls being plastered and applied with paints ;
(vi) Every room in the Bakery other than the room where the oven is located shall be in a height of at least
2.75 meters from the floor level to the ceiling level, and they shall be built in bricks or cement blocks or
cabook blocks or aluminium or timber with both sides of the walls being plastered and applied with
paints ;
(vii) All fittings in the Bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints ;
(viii) While the roof shall have been built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be at least 1.8 meters
above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at least 1 meter in width ;
(ix) Arrangements shall have been made to use potable water for production purposes ;
(x) While a supply of safe water shall have been provided through pipes to every room using water in the
production process, action shall have been taken to provide a drainage system sufficient to allow the
flow of waste water ;
(xi) Waste water disposed of shall be allowed to flow into a suction pit
(xii) Waste disposal programme shall have been put in place in the manner prescribed in By-law 17 ;
(b) When the Bakery requesting a licence is one using wood, -
(i) The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the Bakery shall have been built at a height of at least 7.5
meters above the ground level.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
10A
(ii) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been made smooth the joints shall
have been joined leaving no spaces between the joints. Otherwise they shall be covered with stainless
metal sheets with no joints.
(iii) A movable receptacle sufficient to dispose of ash and remnants of wood removed from the oven of the
Bakery shall be supplied.
(iv) The outside wall of the oven of the Bakery shall be painted or applied with lime.
(v) While ordinary fire extinguishers shall have been provided, electrical fire fighting instruments shall
have been supplied if electricity facilities have been obtained for the Bakery.
(c) When the Bakery requesting a licence is using electricity
(i) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to bakery equipment shall be in a safe condition, trip
switches automatically functioning during high voltage and leaks in electricity shall have been fixed.
(ii) While the electric cables of electric circuits fixed within the bakery premises shall be drawn through
pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity, there shall not be ends of electric cables open to the
outside.
(iii) Ordinary fire fighting equipment and electric fire extinguishers shall have been provided.
11 There shall be   applied with paints to all spaces described in these  By-laws at least once a year.
12 The floor of every room which is used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once every day.
13 The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in a manner clean and with the
good  condition.
14 No flour and other materials shall be used for the manufacture of bakery products unless those are   sufficiently
before its expiry date.
15 ( a) no person suffering from infection or of incubation of an infectious, contagious or skin disease  or had
contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from
such a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody else engage in any licensed premises
or as an assistant of any person engaged at any licensed premises unless the period of such decease  has
been elapsed
(b) no person shall engage himself or employed  anybody else in any form of sale at any licensed premises
unless  that  person is dressed in washed and clean clothes
(c) It shall be the duty of  the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to a medical test
at least once a year
16 It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety kits such as face-masks, gloves and other necessary kits to
the person employed in the licensed premises and    ensure that they dressed with the safety kits when they are on duty at
the licensed premises.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
17 (a) all waste generated  at the licensed premises shall   be  separated   into the categories  as described below and
it shall be the duty of the licensee to collect and keep  them in separate bags, bins or receptacles according
to such categorization, unless recyclable.
(i) biodegradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by-products or other parts
produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste
(b) the waste collected in the manner set out in paragraph (a) above shall be disposed of as  prescribed by the
Chairman unless they disposed  under the waste management programme  launched by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
18 No water suitable for human consumption shall be used for any bakery products.
19 A separate room exclusively for the storage of flour and other materials shall be used in the premises and
maintained sufficiently ventilated and secured against entry of flies or other insects and rats.
20 There shall be a rack made out of timber on a stand at a height of 20 centimetres from the floor level where  flour
stored  in the store room as provided in By-law 19   and which  rack shall have been finished so as to facilitate its movement
from place to place when unloaded . However , such  rack shall have been covered preventing the  rats and other kinds of
insects hide underneath of such rack  and  shall be placed at least 23 centimetres away from the wall.
21 It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that the racks described  in By-law 20 are taken out from the store room and
cleaned at least twice a month.
22 No person shall sleep or rest  in any place licensed under the provisions of these  by-laws and shall not keep or
store any materials or tools  other than the materials or tools  used for the purpose of bakery product. However, the  rest room
or dining room allocated for the employees of the bakery shall not be included in  this provisions.
23 There  shall be provided lavatories in the proportion of at least one for each group of ten employees separately
for males and females and which lavatories shall be located  at least 15 meters away from the production room.
24 There shall be  a sump within the premises to store water for the purpose to bakery production less than 18 meters
away from a suction pit or fertilizer pit or ash pit.
25 There shall be supplied pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean nails and soap or fluid soap to employees who
involve in bakery production activities.
26 No person shall smoke, chew betel or chew any other unhygienic material inside the bakery.
27 It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep a scale or any other type of scale with acceptable standard in a place
visible to all corner of the licensed premises under the provisions of these  By-laws and to weigh any bakery product
displayed for  or exhibited for sale at the  request of any customer.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
12A
28 It shall be the duty of the licensee to utilize boxes or container securely covered to prevent entry of dust or waste
materials or water, if the licensee takes away the bakery products for delivery.
29 The time and duration in which the production or any other activity relating to the production is carried out in a
bakery shall be the  time appropriate for inspection of the premises within the meaning of these  By-laws by the Chairman or
an Authorized Officer.
30 It shall be lawful to  the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of bakery product or
product displayed for sale in a  bakery by paying such money and  no licensee shall desist or prevent such purchase.
31 The Chairman shall  notice to the  licensee demanding him to restore certain conditions or standard  in the said
premises within the  prescribed date  specified in the notice, if  the premises where bakery products are produced within the
meaning of  these By-laws  and  fails or contravenes to maintain the standard set out in By-law 10.
32 Any licensee who is of the  receipt of a notice under  By-law 31  shall comply with the notice before the date
specified therein.
33 The  Chairman shall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice,  when the person who is in the
receipt of notice require time citing the reason acceptable.   However, such extension shall not be exceeding fourteen days.
34 It shall be lawful to  the Chairman to cancel the licence issued to the  premises,  if  the  licensee who is  in receipt
of  the  notice under  By-laws 32 and 33 has  failed to comply with and/or   act in accordance with the matter set out in the
notice before the date specified therein.
35 any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha area  contravenes or violates any provisions provided under these By-laws
shall be an offence punishable with fines as described hereunder after service of a written notice by the Pradeshiya Sabha
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(c)  penalty of a fine  of  Rupees Seven Hundred and Fifty  for   any one of such contravention or violation and
 (d) an additional fine of Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty for reach day during which such contravention or
violation continues.
36 In this part, unless the context otherwise requires –
"Area of the Pradeshiya Sabha" means the area of authority of the  Nintavur   Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the  Nintavur   Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Licensee" means any person who has obtained a licence under the provisions of by-laws of any part and includes
the guardian or manager of such licensed premises or any person administering such place for the time being ;
"Licensed premises" means any area for which a licence has been issued under provisions of the by-laws of any
part ;
"Authorized Officer " means any officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by the Chairman in writing for a
particular function ;
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha ;

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
"Bakery" means a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets are manufactured and it shall
also include any place where such food is prepared or where goods are stored for the preparation of such food ;
"Bakery Products" means bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets manufactured in any bakery for
sale or on an order placed by any person.
01 - 903/2
EASTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
By - Laws
NINTA VUR  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
I, Nazeer Ahamed Minister of the subject of Local Government of the Eastern Provincial Council, do hereby Order publish the
approval granted by me under the power vested in me by Section 123 Sub Section (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of
1987, read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, the By-laws to Regulate,
Supervise, Control and Administer the Offensive or Dangerous and Offensive and Dangerous Trade made by the Nintavur
Pradeshiya Sabha under the power vested in it in Section 126 Item (IX) (k) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987.
NAZEER AHAMED,
Chief Minister of the Eastern Province and
the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister of the Eastern Province,
Inner Harbour Road,
Trincomalee,
06th November  2015
By-laws on Offensive or Dangerous and Offensive and dangerous Trades
01 These by-laws may be cited as the by-laws   to regulate, supervise, control and administer the "Offensive or
dangerous and offensive and dangerous trades"  in the area    of Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha. (hereinafter referred to as  "the
Pradeshiya Sabha" )
02 In these By-laws, the Offensive or  dangerous and offensive and dangerous trades means and includes the
category of the Trades specified by a resolution passed at  the Pradeshiya Sabha  and  listed in the Schedule I, II and III
hereto
03 No person shall carry on any Offensive or  dangerous and offensive and dangerous trades in the area  of the
Pradeshiya Sabha unless the person possess   a valid licence issued in that behalf by the Chairman.
04 Every licence issued under the provisions of these By-laws shall be valid up to 31st December of that year unless
it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of these By-laws.
05 By Law 3 shall not apply to   the   Offensive or  dangerous and offensive and dangerous trades  in operation  in
the area of the Pradeshiya Sabah prior to the date on which  these by laws come into operation  and such  Offensive or
dangerous and offensive and dangerous trades  shall   obtain  a valid license as described hereinafter  and it shall be lawful
to that Offensive or  dangerous and offensive and dangerous trades  to carry on  such operation  during such period.
06 Any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha shall make an application  to the Pradeshiya Sabha for a license for the
purpose to carry on   the Offensive or  dangerous and offensive and dangerous trades   by such  application obtained from
the Pradeshiya Sabha having paid such fee resolved by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
14A
07  It shall be the duty of   the Pradeshiya Sabha to  issue a valid license to a  person within 14 day from the date
of  receipt of such application  unless there is a valid reason to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
08 Any notice to a person  by the  Pradeshiya Sabha or  the Chairman or  any Authorized Officer under these  by-laws
may be considered as properly handed over , if :—
(a) it had been handed over to the post in a manner that could be proved that it had been delivered to be directed
to the particular person who should receive the notice; or
(b) it had been handed over to him or to anybody residing in his address for the time being; or
(c) it had been pasted in any place in his residence or in the place where he is engaged in his functions; and the
handing over in any of these manners shall be lawful.
09 The Chairman may delegate any power or function or duty vested in him under these By-laws to any officer of the
Pradeshiya Sabha in writing  and it shall be lawful to such person  to  exercise  and perform  such power or functions  or duty
so delegated  in writing and  act of  such person  shall be construed to be exercised and performed    by the Chairman within
the meaning of these By-laws.
10 The Chairman or any Authorized Officer shall have the power to examine any premises licensed under any of the
provision or provisions of these By-laws and it shall be the duty  to  the licensee to assist during   the performance of such
examination. Nevertheless, there shall no prevention or obstruction from the licensee in such examination.
11 Unless the following conditions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of these By-laws are fulfilled the Chairman shall not
issue a licence to operate  the Offensive or  dangerous and offensive and dangerous trades ;-
(a) The building or the part of the building:-
(i) Shall be strong enough and having sufficient space for the expected number of customers to be served
without a danger or harm up to the satisfaction of the Chairman
(ii) The premises shall  be maintained in good condition with sufficient  light   and ventilation.   Every room
shall be provided with windows capable of being opened outside the building .
(iii) The walls of every room in every part shall not be less than 2.14 meters in height and be built of bricks,
stone, Kabok , cement blocks or any other suitable material up to the satisfaction of the Chairman  and
internal surface of the walls not less  than 2 meters shall be plastered in cement or protected with
suitable material and it is sufficient if the rest of the internal surface is lime-plastered and lime-washed.
(iv) All eaves shall   be more than 2 meters height from the ground level.
(v) The roof shall  be made of some durable material up to the satisfaction of standards specified by the
Chairman
(vi) All joints of the woodwork of the building shall be applied with wood preservatives and oil paint or
wood polish.
(vii) The entirety of the floor shall be cemented from which water will not leak up to the satisfaction of
standards specified by the  Chairman
(viii) The premises shall  be provided with adequate drainage up to the satisfaction of the standards
specified by the Chairman.
(ix) The internal wiring  of the premises and the safety precaution  installed therein shall  be approved by
an Electrical Superintendent or a Technical Officer who is professionally trained on that behalf or any
officer authorized by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
(b) Every Licensee should perform followings
(i) Every licensee shall keep stored all materials required for carrying on the trade, in such a way as to
prevent any effluvium or any other infection.
(ii) Every licensee when materials which are likely to cause any nuisance or effluvium are transported
along a public place or a thoroughfare shall cause them to be carried in covered and non-absorbent
containers so as to prevent causing any effluvia or nuisance to the public.
(iii) Every licensee shall not cause any offensive vapours or gases emitted during any process of
manufacture, to be discharged into the external air, in such a manner and at such a height as to admit
of their diffusion without injurious or offensive effects or shall be passed directly through a fire or into
a condensing apparatus as per the recommendations of the  Medical Officer of Health in the region
(iv) Every licensee shall provide adequate drains for the premises in which the trade is carried on and
cause to maintain them well and to wash them daily.
(v) Every licensee shall cause the floors of the premises in which the trade is carried on to be constructed
of some impermeable materials and to be maintained in a proper state of affairs and to be cleaned daily.
(vi) Every licensee shall keep the walls of the premises in which the trade is carried on, in good order, so
as to prevent absorption of filth and shall paint them annually.
(vii) Every licensee shall cause all apparatus including implements and vessels used in such trade to be
kept clean    and to be cleaned daily.
viii. Every licensee shall cause all refuse, sweepings and scrapings together with waste and by-products
to be removed daily from the premises in covered containers, unless used forthwith for further trade
processes on such premises.
(ix) Every licensee shall cause the tanks used for washing or soaking skins or any other materials to be
emptied and   cleaned as often as may be necessary to prevent effluvium.
(x) Arrangements shall be to direct  waste water disposed of to a suction pit
 (xi) Ordinary  system of fire fighting shall be provided and if electricity connections provided to the Trade
described in these By laws an additional  electric fire extinguishers shall have provided.
12 It shall be the duty of the licensee to maintain every section of the premises where the Offensive or  dangerous
and offensive and dangerous trades  are  operated  free of thorny bushes or thick growths and to prevent stagnation  of water
so as to facilitate breeding of mosquitoes and other larva.
13 No person  shall store or use the  premises or cause to store any kind of faeces, bone flour, fertilizer or any material
emanating poisonous or oppressive effluvia, unless necessary precautionary  measures are  put in place to prevent spreading
of any gas with effluvia  or poisons'
14 The waste water disposed of after use by the Offensive or  dangerous and offensive and dangerous trades   shall
not be released to a public water course at any time;
15 It shall be the duty of the licensee to  paint or cause to paint  the spaces required to be painted under these  By-
laws at least once a year.
16 The Trade   and its environment, rooms, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in a manner clean  and good
condition.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
16A
17 When cleaning the packing which have been used already and re-packing ;
(a) One tank for the removal of labels previously fixed in the packing and for the initial cleaning, and
(b) the other tank for the final cleaning of those packing, shall be used and the final cleaning shall be effected
utilizing flowing water.
18 ( a) no person suffering from infection or of incubation of an infectious, contagious or skin disease  or had
contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from
such a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody else engage in any licensed premises
or as an assistant of any person engaged at any licensed premises unless the period of such decease  has
been elapsed.
(b) no person shall engage himself or employed  anybody else in any form of sale at any licensed premises
unless  that  person is dressed in washed and clean clothes.
(c)  It shall be the duty of  the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to a medical test
at least once a year.
19 It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety kits such as face-masks, gloves and other necessary kits to
the person employed in the licensed premises and    ensure that they dressed with  the  safety kits when they are on duty at
the licensed premises.
20 ( a) all waste material generated  at the licensed premises shall   be  separated   into the following categories  and
it shall be the duty of the licensee to collect them  in separate bags, bins or receptacles according to the
category.
(i) biodegradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by-products or other parts
produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste.
(b) the waste collected in the manner set out in paragraph (a) above shall be disposed of as  prescribed by the
Chairman unless they disposed  under the waste management programme  launched by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
21 Any occasion when services are being delivered to customers at the licensed premises shall be the appropriate
time to the Chairman or Authorized Officer to  inspect  the  premises under  the provisions of these  By-laws.
22 In the event where the premises licensed under these By-laws fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of
the provisions set out in By-law 11 or contravenes any    provision of these  By-laws the Chairman shall issue a notice to the
licensee demanding him to comply with the conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a
specified date.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
23 Any licensee in receipt of a notice under By-law 22 shall act in the manner prescribed before the date specified
therein and the Chairman shall have the power to extend the date specified if the licensee requires time to accomplish the
notice citing the reason acceptable by  the Chairman in writing. However, the period of such extension shall not be more than
four days.
24 It shall be lawful to the Chairman to cancel the licence issued to that premises, if the licensee in receipt of a notice
under By-law 23 fails to comply with and/or   act in accordance with the matter set out in the notice before the date specified
or the date extended.
25 Any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha area  contravenes or violates any provisions provided under these By-laws
shall be an offence punishable with fines as described hereunder after service of a written notice by the Pradeshiya Sabha
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(a) penalty of a fine  of  Rupees Seven Hundred and Fifty  for   any one of such contravention or violation and
(b) an additional fine of Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty for reach day during which such contravention or
violation continues.
12 In these By-laws unless the context requires otherwise –
"Area of the Pradeshiya Sabha" means the area of authority of the Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Licensee" means any person who has obtained a licence under the provisions of by-laws of any part and includes
the guardian or manager of such licensed premises or any person administering such place for the time being ;
"Licensed premises" means any area for which a licence has been issued under provisions of the by-laws of any
part ;
"Authorized Officer " means any officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by the Chairman in writing for a
particular function ;
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the   Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha  or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the   Nintavur   Pradeshiya Sabha ;
SCHEDULE  I
Offensive Trades
01.  Curing or storing of plumbago
02.  Manufacture or sale of manure or chemical fertilizer
03.  Tanning of leather
04.  Sale of  leather
05.  Animal husbandry (for meal, milk or eggs)
06.  Manufacture of Maldives fish
07.  Manufacture of rubber or storing of rubber sheets
08.  Keeping a veterinary infirmary
09.  Keeping a perishable food or foodstuffs for the purpose of Wholesale trade
10. Keeping of dry fish, salt fish or Jadi in quantity exceeding 150 kilo-grams

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
18A
11. Making Jadi, with meat or fish, drying of meat or fish or icing of meat or fish
12. Manufacture of coconut shell charcoal or wood charcoal
13. Drying of tobacco
14. Manufacture of animal food
15. Manufacture of poonac
16. Fermenting of animal flesh or blood
17.  Manufacture of soap
18. Grinding and keeping of animal bones
19. Manufacture of trunks
20. Keeping of old metal and new metal
21. Keeping of metal scraps
22.  Manufacture of furniture
23. Manufacture of rattan articles
24. Carrying on a carpentry shop
25.  Manufacture of syrup or fruit drinks
26.  Manufacture of sweets
27. Soaking of coconut husks (or treating of coconut husks)
28. Manufacture of brushes (except tooth brushes)
29. Manufacture of tooth brushes
30. Collection of toddy
31. Manufacture of vinegar
32. Sawing of timber
33.  Manufacture of paint, varnish or distemper
34. Manufacture of soda
35. Colour washing of fibre
36. Manufacture of leather goods
37. Canning of fruits, fish or other food stuffs
38. Grinding of coffee or grains
39. Manufacture of baking powder
40. Manufacture of gas mantles
41. Manufacture of wood paste (putty)
42. Manufacture of candles
43. Manufacture of camphor
44. Manufacture of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink
45. Manufacture of blue powder for washing cloths
46. Manufacture of lacquer
47. Manufacture of cosmetics
48. Manufacture of school chalk
49. Manufacture of tyres and tubes
50. Retreating of tyres
51. Vulcanizing of tyre tube
52. Manufacture of cement
53. Manufacture of cement articles or asbestos cement articles
54 .  Manufacture of sand paper
55. Manufacture of plastic goods
56. Burning of bricks
57. Weaving of clothes by using machinery
58. Manufacture or refilling of oxygen
59. Manufacture of tiles
60. Cleaning of gunny bags in which manure, lime, flour or any other material and  selling them
61. Manufacture of cement block bricks by using machinery

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
SCHEDULE  II
Dangerous Trades
01.  Metal quarrying
02.  Manufacture of vegetable oil
03.  Manufacture of coconut oil
04.  Manufacture of boxes of matches and storing
05.  Manufacture of methylated spirits
06.  Manufacture of tea chests
07.  Manufacture of coir or other kinds of fibre
08.  Manufacture of articles with coir or other kinds of fibre
09.  Keeping of straw
10. Storing of used clothes
11. Manufacture and repair of jewellery
12. Sawing of timber by using machinery
13. Mining of lime stones
14.  Carrying on a mechanical workshop
15.   Keeping of empty bottles and empty gunny bags
16.  Repair of bicycles and motor bicycles
17. Keeping of used news-papers and papers
18. Spray painting
19. Storing of fireworks articles and crackers
20.  Metal and iron industries (manufacture of machinery, implements and utensils)
SCHEDULE III
Offensive and Dangerous Trade
01.  Curing or storing of plumbago
02.  Tanning of cinnamon cardamom cloves and  coir by using  sulphur fume
03.  Dry cleaning cloths and painting work on cloths
04.  Printing designing and batik on cloths
05.  Metal designing by using power
06.  Manufacture of oil using animal fat
07.  Burning  of lime stone
08.  Manufacture of fireworks articles and crackers
09.  Preservation of shark oil
10. Manufacture of boats
11. Charging and repairs to batteries
12.  Metal welding
13.  Motor vehicle repairs
14. Motor vehicle service
15. Granting of metals using machineries
16. Maintaining of lathe workshop
17. Maintaining of tinkering workshop
18. Manufacture of body of motor vehicle
19. Manufacture of pesticides product and re-packing
20. Manufacture of Germicides
21. Manufacture of misquotes coil
01 - 903/3

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
20A
EASTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
By - Laws
NINTA VUR  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
I, Nazeer Ahamed Minister of the subject of Local Government of the Eastern Provincial Council, do hereby Order publish the
approval granted by me under the power vested in me by Section 123 Sub Section (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of
1987, read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, the By-laws to Regularize,
Supervise and Control the Eating Houses, Restaurants and Tea or Coffee Shops made by the NintavurPradeshiya Sabha
under the power vested in it in Section 126 Item (IX) (h) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987.
N
AZEER AHAMED,
Chief Minister of the Eastern Province and
the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister of the Eastern Province,
Inner Harbour Road,
Trincomalee,
06th November  2015.
By-laws Relating To Eating Houses, Restaurants And Tea Or Coffee Shops
1 These By-laws may be  cited as the By-law to regularize, supervise and control the eating houses, restaurants and
tea or coffee shops within the area of authority of the Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the Pradeshiya
Sabha)
2 No person shall maintain an eating house, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop in the Pradeshiya Sabha area unless
possess a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the purpose of these By- laws.
3 Every licence issued under the provisions of these  By-laws shall be valid up to 31st December of the year  unless
it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of these  By-laws.
4 The provisions of By-law  2 shall not apply to any  eating house, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop maintained in
the Pradeshiya Sabha area prior to  the date on which these By-laws came into operation and  such eating house, restaurant
or a tea or coffee shop  shall obtain a valid license as described hereinafter  and it shall be lawful to maintain  such eating
house, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop  during such period in the Pradeshiya Sabha area subject to the  provisions provided
hereinafter.
5 Any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha shall make application  to the Pradeshiya Sabha for a license for the purpose
to maintain an eating house, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop  by such  application obtained from the Pradeshiya Sabha
having paid such fee resolved by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
6 It shall be the duty to  the Pradeshiya Sabha to  issue a valid license to a  person within 14 day from the date of
receipt of such application  unless there is a valid reason to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
7 Any notice issued to any person by the Pradeshiya Sabha or by the Chairman or by any Authorized Officer under
these  By-laws may be considered as properly delivered, if :-
(a) it had been handed over to the post in a manner that could be proved that it had been delivered to be directed
to the particular person who should receive the notice; or
(b) it had been handed over to him or to any person residing in his address for the time being; or

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
(c) it had been pasted in any place in his residence or in the place where he is engaged in his functions; and the
handing over in any of these manners shall be lawful.
8 The Chairman may delegate any power or function or duty vested in him under these By-laws to any officer of the
Pradeshiya Sabha in writing  and it shall be lawful to such person  to  exercise  and perform  such power or functions  or duty
so delegated  in writing and  act of  such person  shall be construed to be exercised and performed    by the Chairman within
the meaning of these By-laws.
9 The Chairman or any Authorized Officer shall have the power to examine any premises licensed under any of the
provision or provisions of these By-laws and it shall be the duty  to  the licensee to assist during   the performance of such
examination. Nevertheless, there shall not be any prevention or obstruction from the licensee in such examination.
10 Unless the following conditions described  in this     By-law  is  fulfilled by a person, the Chairman shall not issue
a license to any  eating house, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop: -
(i) the premises shall be kept in proper condition by maintaining;
(ii) while the minimum height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.5 meters, both sides of the walls
shall have been plastered with mortar and applied with paints, in the event of their being built with bricks,
cement blocks or cabook blocks. Otherwise when the walls have been built in wood together with aluminium
or any other metal the planks shall have been painted on their surface ;
(iii) every room of the premises shall be fixed with a ceiling, and shall be at a height of not less than 2.5 meters
from the ground level.
(iv) every room shall have windows that could  open outside. The area of the opened windows shall not be less
than one fifteenth the area of the floor of the room. However, where any room is air conditioned, this
provision shall not apply.
(v) the roof shall be made of some solid material.
(vi) the end of eaves shall be at least 2 meters above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at
least 1.5 meters in width.
(vii) the floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiled.
(viii) dust bins shall be placed to collect waste generated in the premises the dust bins kept at the kitchen shall
have lids to keep them closed so as to prevent entry of flies or other kinds of insects.
(ix) Necessary arrangements shall have made to meet the requirements as set out in By-law 17and the waste
generated  in the premises be put in place accordingly.
(x) the legs of every table made available  at the kitchen of the premises -
(a) shall have polished and applied with paints if  they are made out of  wood, and the top surface of the
tables shall have been covered with polished non-opaque materials or stainless and joint less metal
sheets.
(b) shall have painted if  they are made out of iron, steel or any other type of metal and the top surface of the
tables shall have  covered with polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and joint less metal sheets.
(xi)  the legs of every table made available for the use of customers of the premises
(a) shall have polished and applied with paints if  they are made out of  wood, and the top surface of the tables
shall have been covered with polished non-opaque materials or stainless and joint less metal sheets.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
22A
(b) shall have painted if  they are made out of iron, steel or any other type of metal and the top surface of the
tables shall have been covered with polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and joint less metal
sheets.
(xii) A quality certificate shall have  obtained at least once in every six month from  the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board certifying that  the water used at the premises is suitable for human consumption and such
certificate does not required if the water used at the premises is supplied by the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board;
(xiii) If the water used in the premises is  kept stored,  sufficient safety measures shall have  arranged to prevent
causing pollution ;
(xiv) A separate section shall be arranged  in the premises to wash utensils used by the customers.
(xv) Separate lavatories and urinals shall have provided for employees and the customers on the basis of one
each for every ten persons separately for  males and females.
(xvi) The walls of every lavatory and urinal shall have been built with bricks or cement blocks, cabook blocks or
stainless metal sheets and plastered with cement and finished off with cement or tiled. Moreover, when there
are other walls built with bricks or cement blocks or cabook blocks they shall be finished off with cement or
tiled and when they are built in stainless metal sheets, the surfaces shall be painted.
(xvii) Sufficient number of bath rooms shall have built for the use of the persons employed at the premises and the
prescriptions relevant to lavatories mentioned above shall apply to the floors and walls of these bathrooms.
(xviii) The wash basins made out of stainless metal sheets or ceramic clay or polished bricks or cement blocks and
tiled shall be made available in  the section assigned for the use of the customers;
(xix) A suitable system of drains shall have made available to allow free flow of waste water disposed of from any
section of the premises.
(xx) In the event where the Pradeshiya Sabha maintains a drainage system, the waste water generated at the
premises may be drained to the said drainage system in the manner as prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
If not arrangement shall have made to divert such waste water into a suction pit.
(xxi) General fire fighting instruments shall have provided at the premises and if electricity supplies have been
obtained to the premises the electrically operated fire extinguishers shall have  made available.
(xxii)  The section where tea, coffee or milk is prepared shall have made of stainless metal sheet or with tiles or with
any other type of non-opaque materials.
11 There shall be   applied with paints to all spaces where painting is required  in these  By-laws at least once a year.
12 The licensed premises shall be swept and the drains carrying waste water be cleaned and washed with water at
least twice a day.
13 The lavatories and urinals at the licensed premises shall be cleaned at least twice a day and disinfected and
maintained so as to prevent bad smell spreading.
14 Every receptacle, apparatuses and instrument used for the purpose to prepare food, exhibition for sale and use of
customers in the licensed premises shall be washed by using clean water before the use and it shall be the duty of the licensee
to ensure that they are being washed and cleaned after use.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
15 All waste collected in the licensed premises shall be categorize as the manner prescribed in By-law 17 and place
them categorically in  bags or bins or  receptacle made out of non-opaque material and arranged to  remove them  from the
premises  at least once a day or more depending on the requirements and the bags or bins or receptacles be kept closed other
than the occasion where placing    and disposal of such waste.
16 In any event the waste generated in the licensed premises shall not be placed or dumped in disorderly manner.
 17(a) all waste generated  at the licensed premises shall   be  separated   into the categories as described below and
it shall be the duty of the licensee to keep them  in separate bags, bins or receptacles according to such
categorisation unless recyclable;
(i) biodegradable waste ;
(ii) glass ;
(iii) paper or paper based materials ;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by-products or other parts
produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste
(b) the waste collected in the manner set out in paragraph (a) above shall be disposed of as  prescribed by the
Chairman unless they disposed  under the waste management programme  launched by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
18 The licensed premises shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insects and it shall be the duty of
the licensee to ensure that the materials used for the purpose of preparation of food or beverages are kept in a manner that
those rats, flies or any other kind of insects have no access.
19 No food items in the licensed premises shall be   served  to   customers with naked hands and  be served either by
spoon, fork or any other suitable instruments.
20 There shall not  be kept or sold   any kind of adulterated milk in any licensed premises.  For the purpose of these
By-laws adulterated milk  means and includes the  milk mixed with water or any other kind of foreign items or matters or cow
milk with less than 85 percent solid milk which is not fat or with less than 35 percent milk fat or buffalo milk with less than 9
percent solid milk which is not fat or with less than 7 percent milk fat.
21 ( a) no person suffering from infection or of incubation of an infectious, contagious or skin disease or had
contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from
such a disease shall engage himself or employ any person or let any person to engage in any licensed
premises or as an assistant of any person engaged at any licensed premises unless the period of such
decease  has  been elapsed.
(b) no person shall engage himself or employed  any person in any form of sale at any licensed premises unless
that  person is dressed in washed and clean clothes.
(c) It shall be the duty of  the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to a medical test
at least once a year.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
24A
22 It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply necessary apron and to ensure that the servants  wear  apron  when
are on duty.
23 All employees of the licensed premises shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean nails and
soap or fluid soap.
24 No person shall smoke, chew betel or chew any other unhygienic material inside the bakery.
25 The time and duration in which the business or any activity relating to the business is carried out in the premises
shall be the time appropriate for inspection of the premises within the meaning of these by-laws by the Chairman or an
authorised officer.
26 It shall be lawful to the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of product or any product
displayed for sale at the premises by paying such money and  no licensee shall desist or prevent such purchase.
27 The Chairman shall notice to the licensee demanding him to restore certain conditions or standard  in the said
premises within the  prescribed date  specified in the notice, if  the premises where bakery products are produced within the
meaning of  these By-laws  and  fails or contravenes to maintain the standard set out in By-law 10.
28 Any licensee who is of the receipt of a notice under  By-law 27   shall comply with the notice before the date
specified therein and the   Chairman shall have the power to extend the specified date,  when the person who is in the receipt
of notice require time citing the reason acceptable.   However, such extension shall not be exceeding fourteen days.
29 It shall be lawful to  the Chairman to cancel the licence issued to the  premises,  if  the  licensee who is  in receipt
of  the  notice has  failed to comply with and/or   act in accordance with the matter set out in the notice under  By-law 28  before
the date specified or extend therein.
30 Any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha area  contravenes or violates any provisions provided under these By-laws
shall be an offence punishable with fines as described hereunder after service of a written notice by the Pradeshiya Sabha
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(a) penalty of a fine  of  Rupees Seven Hundred and Fifty  for   any one of such contravention or violation and
(b) an additional fine of Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty for reach day during which such contravention or
violation continues.
31 24. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires –
"Area of the Pradeshiya Sabha" means the area of authority of the  Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the Nintavur   Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Licensee" means any person who has obtained a licence under the provisions of by-laws of any part and includes
the guardian or manager of such licensed premises or any person administering such place for the time being ;
"Licensed premises" means any area for which a licence has been issued under provisions of the by-laws of any
part ;
"Authorized Officer " means any officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by the Chairman in writing for a
particular function ;
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha  or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the  Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"Restaurant or eating house" means a place where cooked rice and curries are prepared or stored or exhibited for
sale and it shall also include a place where any type of prepared food or short eat is prepared or stored or
exhibited for sale ;
" Tea or coffee shop" means any place which is maintained for sale of tea or coffee with bakery products or short
eats.
01 - 903/4
EASTERN    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
By - Laws
NINTA VUR  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
I, Nazeer Ahamed Minister of the subject of Local Government of the Eastern Provincial Council, do hereby Order publish the
approval granted by me under the power vested in me by Section 123 Sub Section (1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of
1987, read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act ,No. 12 of 1989, the By-laws to Regularize,
Supervise and Control the Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber shops and Beauty Centers made by the Nintavur   Pradeshiya
Sabha under the power vested in it in Section 126 Item (XXIII) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987.
N
AZEER AHAMED,
Chief Minister of the Eastern Province and
the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister of the Eastern Province,
Inner Harbour Road,
Trincomalee,
06th November  2015.
B
Y-LAWS RELA TING TO HAIR DRESSING SALOONS, BARBER SHOPS AND BEAUTY CENTERS
1. This By-laws may be  cited as the By-laws to regularize, supervise and control Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber
Shopsand Beauty Centres within the area of authority of the Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred to as the
Pradeshiya Sabha)
2. No person shall maintain a Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shopsand Beauty Centres in the Pradeshiya Sabha area
unless possess a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the purpose of these By- laws.
3. Every licence issued under the provisions of these  By-laws shall be valid up to 31st December of the year  unless
it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of these  By-laws.
4. The provisions of By-law  2 shall not apply to any Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops  and Beauty Centres
maintained in the Pradeshiya Sabha area prior to  the date on which these By-laws came into operation and  such Hair
Dressing Saloons, Barber Shopsand Beauty Centres shall obtain a valid license as described hereinafter  and it shall be lawful
to maintain  such Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shopsand Beauty Centres during such period in the Pradeshiya Sabha area
subject to provision provided hereinafter. .

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
26A
5. Any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha shall make application  to the Pradeshiya Sabha for a license for the purpose
to maintain Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shopsand Beauty Centres by such  application obtained from the Pradeshiya
Sabha having paid such fee resolved by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
6. It shall be the duty to  the Pradeshiya Sabha to  issue a valid license to a  person within 14 day from the date of
receipt of such application  unless there is a valid reason to the Pradeshiya Sabha.
7. Any notice issued to any person by the Pradeshiya Sabha or by the Chairman or by any Authorized Officer under
these  By-laws may be considered as properly delivered,if :-
(a) it had been handed over to the post in a manner that could be proved that it had been delivered to be directed
to the particular person who should receive the notice; or
(b) it had been handed over to him or to anybody residing in his address for the time being; or
(c) it had been pasted in any place in his residence or in the place where he is engaged in his functions; and the
handing over in any of these manners shall be lawful.
8. The Chairman may delegate any power or function or duty vested in him under these By-laws to any officer of the
Pradeshiya Sabha in writing  and it shall be lawful to such person  to  exercise  and perform  such power or functions  or duty
so delegated  in writing and  act of  such person  shall be construed to be exercised and performed  by the Chairman within
the meaning of these By-laws.
9. The Chairman or any Authorized Officer shall have the power to examine any premises licensed under any of the
provision or provisions of these By-laws and it shall be the duty  to  the licensee to assist during   the performance of such
examination. Nevertheless, there shall no prevention or obstruction from the licensee in such examination.
10. ( a) Unless the following conditions in the paragraphs (b) and (c) of the By-laws are fulfilled the Chairman shall
not issue a licence to maintain a Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop or Beauty Center.
(b) The building or the part of the building expected to maintain the Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop or a
Beauty Center  shall :-
(i) have  strongly built and at least an area of 1.5 square meters for a single customer  been provided
therein  in the proportion of the number of customers expected to be served simultaneously;
(ii) be provide sufficient sitting space at least 1.5meters , away from the place where the place the customer
is  serviced ,  to  customers  arriving at the premises expecting the service;
(iii) have the inner walls been built using strong materials and have been painted as well ;
(iv) have the roof been built using timber or other strong material and it shall also contain a ceiling at least
2.25 meters abovethe ground level. Moreover the ceiling shall have been painted white ;
(v) have the floor of the building shall have been finished off with cement or tiled and the place where the
wall and the floormeets shall be built circular to facilitate cleaning ;
(vi) have windows not below one fifteenth of the floor area of the premises with sufficient light been
allowed into the buildingwhen the building is not supplied with air-conditioning ;
(vii) have been supplied with sufficient electric light when the building is air-conditioned ;
(viii) have wash basins fixed and sufficient pipes fixed to drain waste water if water is used in providing
services to customers ;

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
(ix) have drains to drain waste water to a suction pit in order to prevent such water flowing into a public
waterway ;
(x) provide water sealed lavatory facilities in the buildings or in the premises ;
(xi) not be used as a residence and it shall be separate from the buildings used as a residence.
(c) The hair dressing centers, barber saloons or beauty centers shall be supplied with :-
(i) sufficient water supply during the period where it is kept   opened for the customers’ service  ;
(ii) facilities to boil water or a sterilization mechanism and a sufficient number of utensils used in sterilization
in order tosterilize instruments and utensils used ;
(iii) wash basins with facilities to wash hands and soap or liquid soap for the use of employees providing
services ;
(iv) a sufficient number of towels and aprons in light colours but not in dark colours for the use of the
customers ;
(v) a movable receptacle with a tight lid to collect cut hair and other waste ;
(vi) at least one each of safety plugs fixed to each table in the event of electrically controlled instruments
are used ;
(vii) a first aid box containing sufficient amount of first aid instruments and drugs as prescribed by the
Regional Director of Health Services.
11 The  persons employed in each centre under licensed by these  By-laws shall have been provided with first aid
training andfirst aid rehearsal at least once a year in the manner recommended by the Regional Director of Health Services.
12 All spaces or  places of  licensed premises where it is required to be applied with paints in these By Laws  shall
have  painted at least once a year.
13 The floor of the licensed premises licensed under these By-laws shall have been washed by licensee with
disinfectants at least once in three months.
14 The licensed premises licensed under these By Laws shall not be used by anybody as a place for sleeping or
eating meals during the night or  day time.
15 The licensed premises licensed under these By Laws shall not be used by anybody as a place to cook meals or
sell food or display food items for the purpose to sell.
16 ( a) no person suffering from infection or of incubation of an infectious, contagious or skin disease  or had
contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from
such a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody else engage in any licensed premises
or as an assistant of any person engaged at any licensed premises unless the period of such decease has
been elapsed.
(b) no person shall engage himself or employed  anybody else in any form of sale at any licensed premises
unless  that  person is dressed in washed and clean clothes.
(c) It shall be the duty of  the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to a medical test
at least once a year.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
28A
17 After extending services to any customer suffering from any kind of infectious or contagious or skin disease or
who haverecently attended on a person suffering from such a disease –
(a) action shall be taken not to serve or to allow anybody else to serve any other customer unless such person
who extendedservice cleans his hands using any kind of disinfectant ;
(b) action shall be taken not to use or to allow anybody else to use any kind of instrument used in respect of that
customer  unless it has been sterilized and unless the towels and aprons used have been washed using
disinfectants and soap.
18 It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that all employees of the licensed center –
(a) engage in their service daily only after a bath or body wash ;
(b) maintain their clothes in a clean and healthy condition ;
(c) keep their nails cut and without any dirt, and
(d) wash their hands with soap before serving each customer.
19 The licensee shall ensure that the,
(a) instruments used in the licensed centre are sterilized after each use ;
(b) brushes and combs are sterilized after washing well before use on each day ;
(c) receptacles, cups and soap brushes are washed in hot water after each use.
20 The licensee shall ensure ;
(a) that cut hair and other waste material removed after cutting hair and beard of each customer obtaining
service at the licensed centre are put into a receptacle having being collected by sweeping or through
electrically operated mechanism ; and
(b) that the blade of the barber’s knife containing changeable blades is changed, after each haircut.
21 It is the duty of the licensee to see that waste material in the receptacle containing pieces of cut hair are dumped
in a pit at leastone meter below the ground level at the end of daily activities or if necessary a number of times each day.
Moreover, it is alsothe duty of the licensee to ensure that precautionary action is taken to prevent dispersal or scattering of
cut hair disposed of.
22 In the event of the inability to dispose of the pieces of hair and other waste in the manner set out in By-law
No. 15 action shall be taken to hand over such waste to an Pradeshiya Sabha scavenging vehicle in the manner prescribed
under the waste management programme of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
23 It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure cleaning and disinfecting of the receptacle used to collect waste
material producedat the licensed center.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
24 The use of,
(a) any type of blood clotting pencil or any other substance, or
(b) alum or any other substance in any other form rather than as a powder or a liquid,in respect of any customer
shall not be made or allowed.
25 The licensee in any licensed centre shall not use an apron which is not washed or any towel that is not one used
for the first timeafter being washed, in respect of any customer.
26 Unless written permission of the Chairman has been obtained no other activity shall be pursued in a licensed
premises otherthan those prescribed in the licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws in this part.
27 The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the By-laws in this part by the Chairman or by an
Authorized Officershall mean any occasion when service is being provided to the customers at the premises.
28 In the event of the premises issued with a license under the By-laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance
with any oneof the provisions set out in By-law 10  or contravenes the provisions of any By-law of the By-laws set out in this
part theChairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions
to restore thesaid premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
29 Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law  28 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice before
the datespecified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairman shall have
the powerto extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be more than four
days.
30 When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law  29 fails to act in accordance with the manner set out
in thenotice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the licence
issued to that premises.
31 Any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha area  contravenes or violates any provisions provided under these By-laws
shall be an offence punishable with fines as described hereunder after service of a written notice by the Pradeshiya Sabha
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(e) penalty of a fine of  Rupees Seven Hundred and Fifty  for   any one of such contravention or violation and
 (f) an additional fine of Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty for reach day during which such contravention or
violation continues.
32 In this part, unless the context otherwise requires –
"Area of the Pradeshiya Sabha" means the area of authority of the Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Licensee" means any person who has obtained a licence under the provisions of by-laws of any part and includes
the guardian or manager of such licensed premises or any person administering such place for the time being ;
"Licensed premises" means any area for which a licence has been issued under provisions of the by-laws of any
part ;

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'11
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.01.2016
30A
"Authorized Officer " means any officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by the Chairman in writing for a
particular function ;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the  Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the  Nintavur  Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated to carry out the
powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;
"apron" means any cloth used for covering the upper part of the body of a customer obtaining service from the
licensed center.
01 - 903/5
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.