

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
ZAM TRUST (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 72 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 24, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Zam Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 72 of 2009
1
[Certified on 23rd December, 2009]
L.D.—O. (INC .) 31/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  ZAM  TRUST
WHEREAS a trust called and known as the “Zam Trust” has
hitherto been established in Colombo for the purpose of
effectually carrying out objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Trust:
AND WHEREAS the said Trust has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters
for which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for public advantage to grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Zam Trust
(Incorporation) Act, No. 72 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Board of Trustees of Zam Trust (hereinafter referred to as the
“Trust”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be, a body corporate
with perpetual succession under the name and style of
“Zam Trust” (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)
and by that name may sue or may be sued with full power
and authority to have and use a common seal, the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote the advancement of education and
knowledge, of Muslims and to provide scholarships
and any form of financial assistance to needy
Muslim scholars ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Zam Trust.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Zam Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 72 of 2009
2
(b) to establish, construct and maintain homes for the
poor muslims and educational institutes,
Mosques, hospitals and vocational training centres
for muslims ;
(c) to assist the muslim students in studies and other
activities ;
(d) to promote, encourage, assist and undertake
activities for the relief of poverty and distress
caused disasters and natural calamities in relation
to muslims ;
(e) to provide basic necessities such as water and
electricity to the needy muslims ;
(f) to collect, classify, translate, print, publish and
distribute books, journals and magazines related to
Islamic education amongst the muslim people ; and
(g) to promte, encourage, assist and foster activities for
the advancement of communal, national and
international understanding, religious harmony,
goodwill and peace amongst the muslim people.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written Law, the Corporation  shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or anyone of
them, including the power to open, operate and close  bank
accounts, to borrow or raise funds, with or without security,
to invest, its funds and to engage, employ and dismiss officers
and servants for the carrying out of the object of the
Corporation :
5. The Trustees of the Board of Trustees of the Trust,
holdings the office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall with effect from the coming
General powers
of the
Corporation.
Board of
Trustees of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Zam Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 72 of 2009
3
into operation of this Act, be deemed to be the trustees of the
Board of Trustees of the Corporation.
6. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 7 be
administered by the Committee of Management (hereinafter
referred to as “Committee”) consisting of the President, the
Honorary Secretary, the Honorary Treasurer and not less than
five Committee members to be appointed by the Board of
Trustees.
(2) The members of the Committee of the Trust,
holding the office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be
members of the first Committee.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from
time to time, at any general meeting of the Corporation
and by majority of not less than two-thirds of the
members present, to make rules not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or any other written law, for
appoinment of the Committee, for the conduct of the
duties of  the Committee and of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure in the
transaction of business and otherwise generally for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added to, amended or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Committee  shall be subject
to the rules of the Corporation.
8. (1) The fund of the Corporation shall consist of—
(a) all moneys lying in the credit of the Trust
on the preceding date of commencement
of this Act, which shall stand transferred
to the Corporation from that date;
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Zam Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 72 of 2009
4
(b) all moneys that may accrue to the
Corporation after that date of
commencement of this Act; and
(c) any donations or gifts rendered to the
Corporation.
(2) All moneys lying to the credit of the Fund
shall be utilized to defray the expenses incurred in
the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects.
9. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such  Institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by any one of
such Institutes.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation
Debts due by
and payable to
the Trust.
Audit and
Accounts.

<!-- page 6 -->

Zam Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 72 of 2009
5
hereby constituted and all debts due to and contributions
payable to the Trust shall be paid to the Corporation, for the
purpose of this Act.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Secretary and may be altered in such  manner, as may
be determined by the Committee. The seal shall not be affixed
to any instrument  whatsoever, except with the sanction of
the Committee and in the presence of two members of the
committee who shall sign the instrument in token of their
presence. Such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other Institute or Institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by the rules thereof  prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its or their members. Such Institute
or Institutions shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at or immediately before the dissolution of the
Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of  any body politic or
corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 7 -->

Zam Trust (Incorporation)
Act, No. 72 of 2009
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.