

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2012
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1791$8 - 2012 foieïn¾ ui 31 jeks i÷od - 2012'12'31
No. 1791/8 -  MONDAY   DECEMBER  31,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
THE FINANCE ACT, No. 25 OF 2003
Order under Section  2 (1)
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under Sub - section (1) of  Section 2 of the Finance Act, No. 25 of 2003,  I, Mahinda
Rajapaksa, Minister  of Finance and planning  do by this Order determine that  with effect from  January 1, 2013 there shall be
charged and levied from the  persons specified in Column I of the  schedule I hereto, an Embarkation Levy, at the rate specified
in the corresponding entry in Column II of that schedule and regulations mentioned in schedule II hereto are applicable on
charge of this Embarkation Levy.
The order made under the  Finance Act,  No. 25 of 2003 and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1303/ 22 of August 29,
2003 is hereby rescinded.
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA,
Minister of Finance and Planning.
Ministry  of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
31st  December, 2012.
SCHEDULE   I
Column I Column II
(i) Person leaving Sri Lanka by aircraft US $ 25.00
(ii) Person leaving Sri Lanka by ship US $ 5.00
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
SCHEDULE   II
REGULATIONS  MADE  UNDER  SECTION  17 OF FINANCE  ACT,  No. 25 OF 2003
1. These regulations may be cited  as the Embarkation Levy (Airlines) Regulations, No. 01 of 2003
and shall come into operation on  September  1, 2003.
Short title and
date of
operation.
This Gazette 
Extraordinary  can be downloaded from   www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2012
2A
2. Every operator of an airline operating  a flight out of Sri Lanka shall collect an Embarkation Levy
of such amount as is determinded by the Minister from time to time by Order published in the Gazette, in
respect of each  passenger departing on such flight from Sri  Lanka unless such passenger in exempt from
the payments of such Levy, in terms of sub- section (2) of Section 2 of the Act.
3. (1) Every operator of an airline referred to in Regulation 2 shall comply with the Directions issued
by the Director - General in regard to the mode and manner of payment and collection of the Embarkation
Levy and the remittance of such collection to the Director - General.
(2) Every operator of an airline shall furnish to the Director - General such returns or
other  information relating to the aircraft, flight schedules, number of passengers uplifted including transit
passengers and children less than two years of age, applicable passenger manifests, the collection of
Embarkation Levy, as the  Director - General may from time to time require.
4. (1) Every operation of an airline operating a flight leaving Sri Lanka shall, as directed by the
Director - General, deposit with the  Director - General a sum of money or furnish a bank guarantee drawn in
favour of the  Director - General for such amount as may be determined by the Director - General as security
for the money to be collected as Embarkation Levy.
(2) The Director - General in determining the amount of the deposit or the value of the bank
guarantee to be given in relation to the monies to be collected as Embarkation Levy under Regulation 2 shall
take into account the following :-
(i) the maximum seating capacity of a given aircraft ;
(ii) the number of flights per week ;
(iii) the nature and scope of the operations ;
(iv) the estimated amount of money that the airline would collect for a period of fifteen days
as Embarkation Levy.
(3) The duration of a bank guarantee required by the Director - General  shall not exceed a period of
one year at any given time.
5. (1) The Director - General  shall ensure that money received by him as Embarkation Levy be
distributed amongst the agencies that may be notified to him in writing by the Deputy Secretary to the
Treasury.
(2) Subject to the requirements of sub- Section (1) of Section 5 of the Act, the Director - General
shall ensure that all money collected by him as Embarkation Levy from operation of aircraft are disbursed
within forty-five days from the  date of receipt of such money.
6. The Director - General  shall furnish to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury -
(a) a monthly return as required by sub - section (2) of Section 5 substantially in the form set
out in table 1; and
(b) a return containing details of disbursements of the levy in the form set out in table 2.
7.  In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires -
‘‘Act” means the Finance Act, No. 25 of 2003 ;
‘‘Airline” means an airline operating a flight or flights out of  Sri Lanka carring passengers ;
‘‘Director - General” shall have the same meaning as in the civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 34 of 2003 ;
‘‘Operator of an airline” shall in relation to an aircraft have the same meaning as in the Act.
Collection of
Embarkation
Levy.
Mode and
Manner of
colletion of
Embarkation
Levy.
Airlines to give
a Bank
Guarantee to the
Director - Gen-
eral.
Disbursement
Procedure.
Making of
returns.
Interpreation.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2012
3A
TABLE  I
Collection of Embarkation Levy
(Monthly return to be submitted by the Director- General of Civil Aviation to the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury)
 Year Month Period
Name of Airline Number of Amount collected (Rs.) Total
Passengers E.T. Interest (if any)
TABLE  2
Details of Disbursement
(Return  to be submitted by the Director- General of Civil Aviation to the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury)
 Year Month Period
No. Organization/ (%) Amount (Rs.) Cheque No. Date Receipt No.
Fund
03- 174
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.