

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.09.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1829$23 - 2013 iema;eïn¾ ui 23 jeks i÷od - 2013'09'23
No. 1829/23  - MONDAY ,  SEPTEMBER 23,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT,  No.  14  OF  2008
Order under Sub section (4) of Section 3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Sub-section  (4) of Section 3  of the Strategic Development Projects Act No. 14 of 2008
as amended, I, Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, Minister of Investment Promotions,being the Minister in charge of the subject
of Investment Promotions do by this Order declare that -
1. The notification containing the relevant information of a Project for the Development, construction, equipping,
commissioning, owning, managing, operating, selling, leasing and renting a luxury multi/mixed use "ICONIC" Intergrated
Resort consisting of multiple business including a luxury hotel, convention centre, entertainment and gaming facilities,
international standards shopping mall, luxury condominiums, serviced apartments and office space ("the Integrated Resort")
in two phases at Glennie Street and Justice Akbar Mawatha, Colombo 02 in the Western Province, which was identified as a
Strategic Development Project for the purpose of aforesaid Act, was published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1819/30 dated
18th July 2013 ;
2. The approval of Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained interms of Sub-section (3) of Section 3 to declare the
Project to for the development, construction, equipping, commissioning, owning, managing, operating. selling, leasing and
renting a luxury multi/mixed use "ICONIC" Intergrated Resort consisting of multiple business including a luxury hotel,
convention centre, entertainment and gaming facilities, international standards shopping mall, luxury condominiums, serviced
apartments and office space ("the Integrated Resort") in two phases at Glennie Street and Justice Akbar Mawatha, Colombo
02 in the Western Province as a  Strategic Development Project ;
3. The above Strategic Development  Project shall be called and known as a "Project to for the development,
construction, equipping, commissioning, owning, managing, operating. selling, leasing and renting a luxury multi/mixed use
"ICONIC" Intergrated Resort consisting of multiple business including a luxury hotel, convention centre, entertainment and
gaming facilities, international standards shopping mall, luxury condominiums, serviced apartments and office spare ("the
Integrated Resort") in two phases at Glennie Street and Justice Akbar Mawatha, Colombo 02 in the Western Province" and
that the Project Company is known as Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited ;
4. The aforesaid Project shall commence its Commercial Operations of Phase 1 of the Integrated Resort within Sixty
(60) months from the date stated in the Project Agreement signed with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka on 11th July 2013
and Phase II of the Integrated Resort, if undertaken, shall be within a further Thirty Six (36) months from the date as stated in
the said Project Agreement.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.09.2013
2A
5. The exemption from the enactments specified in the Schedule to this order shall apply to the integrated Resort
being developed by the Project Company and shall be operative for the duration specified in this Schedule.
SCHEDULE
1.  The Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006
(i) Corporate Income Tax
The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax on the
Project Company on the profit and income generated from the non-gaming activities from the Integrated
Resort shall not apply for a period of Ten (10) years ("Tax Exemption Period").
The said Tax Exemption Period to commence from the  first year in which the Project Company makes taxable
profit or Three (03) years after commencement of commercial operations, whichever falls first.
After the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period referred to above, the profits and income of the
Project Company shall be charged at the rate of the lower of six per centum (6%) or fifty per centum (50%) of
the prevailing tax rate for the hotel industry, for a period of Fifiteen  (15) years immediately succeeding the
last date of the Tax Exemption Period. ("Tax Concessionary Period").
Provided that after the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period and Tax Concessionary Period
referred to above, income tax in respect of the profits and income of the Project Company shall be payable in
terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.
For the above purpose rental received by the Project Company as landlord whether fixed and/or variable
(where applicable based on the activity level of the business of the tenant) of all tenants including and not
limited to the rents received from the operators of the gaming activities shall be considered as nongaming
activity.
In the event the Project Company engages in the business of gaming, the profits from this activity shall be
liable for corporate tax at the applicable rate.
(ii) Tax on Dividends
Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit shall be exempted from the income tax
during the said  Tax Exemption Period and One year thereafter.
(iii) Withholding Tax
The Project Company shall be exempted from the deduction and payment of Withholding Tax on interest
paid on foreign loans  and debt obtained for capital expenditure and on technical fees.
The Project Company shall  be exempted from the deduction and payment of Withholding Tax on management
fees, royalty payments and marketing fees provided the fees with respect to each such category the following
thresholds shall apply :
(1) Basic management fees/royalties are no more than three per centum (3%) of gross operating
revenues ;
(2) Marketing fees are no more than one point five per centum (1.5%) of gross operating revenue ;  and
(3) Incentive managment fees are no more than ten per centum (10%) of gross operating profits.
(iv) PAYE Tax
The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall  be exempted from the charge and payment of Pay As You
Earn Tax (PAYE) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number of
Twenty (20)  employees. This concession shall be applicable for a period of Five (05) years from the date of
commencement of  commercial operations. The Project Company shall be required to gradually replace
expatriate staff with local employees on  best-effort basis.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.09.2013
3A
2.  Value Added Tax (V A T) Act No. 14 of 2002
The importation of project related goods and services and the local purchases of project related goods and
services as approved by the Project Company during the Project Implementation Period of Sixty (60) months shall
be exempted from charge and payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) under Value Added Tax Act No. 14 of 2002 as
amended. The V AT exemption shall be applicable not only for direct supplies to the Project Company/Integrated
Resort but also for supplies made to a contractor or by a sub-contractor to a contractor.
The same concessions shall be applicable during the Implementation Period of a further Thirty Six (36) months for
Phase 2.
The Project Company shall be liable for the payment of V AT on value of supply as defined in the V AT Act No. 14
of 2002 on the commencement of commercial operations notwithstanding the fact that during the Project
Implementation Period and the implementation period of Phase 2, the Project Company/Integrated Resort will
continue to enjoy the consessions available for the project related goods and services.
3. Port and Airport Development Levy (PAL) Act, No. 18 of 2011
The  payment and charge of Port and Aviation Levy (PAL) shall be fully exempted on all items imported for
implementing the Integrated Resort (whether directly imported by the Project Company or sourced through
contractors or subcontractors) during the Project Implementation Period.
The Project Company, its contractors and subcontractors shall also be entitled to the same concessions during the
implementation period of a further Thrity Six (36) months for Phase 2.
4. The Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005 as amended shall be exempted for the payment of Construction Industry Guarantee
Fund Levy to the contractor/s and subcontractors of the Project Company.
Contractors and subcontractors of the Project Company shall also be entitled to the same concessions during the
implementation period of a further Thrity Six (36) months for Phase 2.
6. Customs Duty on Importation of Project Related Items [Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)]
All imports of project related items in capital nature and any other proejct related items required for the Integrated
Resort, in the name of the Project Company or by the contractors and the sub-contractors approved by the Project
Company other than the items mentioned in the negative list shall be exempted from the customs duty as approved
by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka solely for the purpose of the Integrated Resort during the Project
Implementation Period. However items in the Negative List shall be considered if quantity and quality of such
goods are not available in the local market or are unavailable in sufficient quality, quantity and timelines for the
completion of the Integrated Resort. Provided that this exemption shall not apply to any personal effects imported
by the Project Company,  for the private and personal use of any person in the Project Company, and provided that
the Board reserves to itself the right to cause or permit to be caused the examination of any imports for purposes
connected with this Agreement.
The same concessions shall be applicable during the implementation period of a further Thirty Six (36) months for
Phase 2.
L
AKSHMAN YAPA ABEYWARDENA, MP
Minister of Investment Promotions.
Colombo.
23rd September, 2013.
10 - 221
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
SCHEDULE (Contd.)