

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
KANDY DHARMARAJA COLLEGE PAST PUPILS’
 ASSOCIATION (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 241]
————————
Presented by the Hon. Eric Prasanna Weerawardhana,
M. P. for Kandy District on 22nd May, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on May 13, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
to incorporate the Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’ Association
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2-PL 007281 —850 (05/2013)

<!-- page 2 -->

1  Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’
 Association (Incorporation)
2—PL 007134—  75 (03/2013 )
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KANDY DHARMARAJA COLLEGE
PAST PUPILS’ ASSOCIATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’ Association” has
heretofore been formed at No. 35, Anagarika Dharmapala
Mawatha, Kandy for the purpose of effectually carrying out
its objects and transacting all  matters connected with the
said Association according to the rules agreed to by its
members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be expedient to grant the said
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Kandy Dharmaraja
College Past Pupils’ Association (Incorporation) Act,
No.    of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are the members of
the Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’ Association
(hereinafter referred to as the “Association”) or shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the “Kandy
Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’ Association” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue
and be sued, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the Kandy
Dharmaraja
College Past
Pupils’
Association.

<!-- page 3 -->

2  Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’
 Association (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
(a) to  assist the Dharmaraja College, Kandy for the
purpose of educational, cultural, social, health and
spiritual development of Buddhist;
(b) to assist for the development individuals’ skills to
be used for their benefit;
(c) to implement projects and programmes and to
collect resources for the development organization;
(d) to conduct study circles, seminars, workshops,
lectures, discussions, debate, dhamma schools and
poya-day programmes;
(e) to grant donations, scholarships, financial
assistance and gifts for the education;
(f) to accept and collect gifts, donations, and
contributions in cash or kind;
(g) to assist the students who need help;
(h) to established and maintain libraries, reading rooms
and study centers;
(i) to collect print, publish and distribute books,
journals and magazines;
(j) to maintain cordial relationship with other
organizations having similar objects;
(k) to act as guardian and management of resources;
(l) to develop and promote Dharmaraja College,
Kandy; and
(m) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment
of the above objects.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3  Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’
 Association (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any
other written law, the Corporation shall have the power
to do, perform and execute all such acts, matters and
things whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the
furtherance of its objects or any one of them, including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security, to receive
or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds, to erect
any building or structure on any land held by  the
Corporation, and to engage, employ and dismiss officers
and servants required for the carrying out of the objects of
the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provision of this Act, and such rules as are made under section
6, be administered by a Board of Management consisting of
the Hon. President, Hon. Secretary, Hon. Treasurer and
committee members consisting not less than twenty-five
other members elected in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation  in force for the time being of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist or the members of the Board of Management of
the Association holding office on the day preceding the
date of commencement of this Act. Any vacancies in the
first Board of Management be filled from among the members
of the Association with the consent of the other members.
The first  executives be elected from among the members of
the Board.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, and the admission,
withdrawal, resignation or expulsion of members;
30
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4  Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’
 Association (Incorporation)
(b) the election of office bearers, the resignation from
or vacation of or removal from office of  office
bearers and their powers, function and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the committee of
Management and the powers, functions and duties
and the terms of office of members of the Committee
of Management;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meeting of the Committee of
Management the time, place, notice and agenda of
such meeting, the quorum therefore and the conduct
of business thereat;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(4) The rules of the Institute in force on the day preceding
to date of commencement of this Act, shall in so far as they
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, be deemed to be rules of the Corporation
made under this section.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 6 -->

5  Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’
 Association (Incorporation)
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, dontation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of  the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
(3) The money and property of the Corporation
whosesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objectes as setforth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
(4) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as and Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute ; or
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6  Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’
 Association (Incorporation)
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and the Secretary or Treasurer who shall sign their
names on the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the  signing of any person
as a witness.
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
11. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Association on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
Seal of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7  Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’
 Association (Incorporation)
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other Foundation or
Foundations having objects similar to those of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules thereof
prohibited form distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such Foundation or Foundations shall
be determined by the Board of Management at or
immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rigtts of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal
preceding for any act done, or purporting to be done, in
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Indemnity
for acts done
in good faith.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 9 -->

8  Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’
 Association (Incorporation)
BOARD OF MANAGEMENT UNDER 5(2)
President : Mr. K. M. R. Kulathunga
Secretary : Priyantha Abeykoon
Treasurer : Mr. Thissa Jayasinghe
1. Mr. Senarath Jayasundara
2. Mr. Sarath Fernando
3. Mr. N. W. Weerakoon
4. Mr. Ajith Narampanawa
5. Mr. Aather Silva
6. Mr. Ananda Jayasundara
7. Mr. Seevali Abeysekara
8. Mr. Walter Ranasinghe
9. Mr. Sadara Thennakoon
10. Mr. Jegath Samarasinghe
11. Mr. Mahinda Senawiratna
12. Mr. Sanjaya Edirasooriya
13. Mr. C. S. Ekanayake
14. Mr. K. B. Samarakoon
15. Mr. A. B. Samarakoon
16. Mr. Mahinda Pethiyagoda
17. Mr. Udaya Yatawara
18. Mr. S. B. Herath
19. Mr. Sarath Munaweera
20. Mr. Yasas Chandrasekara
21. Mr. Prasath Withanage
22. Mr. Saman Ratnayake

<!-- page 10 -->

9  Kandy Dharmaraja College Past Pupils’
 Association (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .