

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
ACTIVE  LIABILITY  MANAGEMENT
————————
————————
Presented by the Prime Minister and Minister of National Policies and
Economic Affairs on 19th of February, 2018
(Published in the Gazette on January 19, 2018)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to authorise the raising of loans in or outside Sri Lanka for the purpose of
Active Liability Management to improve public debt management in
Sri  Lanka  and  to  make  provisions  for  matters  connected therewith  or
incidental thereto.
A
BILL
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2dp
2-
————————
[Bill No. 231]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1Active Liability Management
2—PL 010630—510 (02/2018)
L.D.—O. 36/2017.
AN A CT TO AUTHORISE THE RAISING OF LOANS IN OR OUTSIDE
SRI LANKA FOR THE PURPOSE OF ACTIVE LIABILITY MANAGEMENT
TO IMPROVE PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT  IN SRI LANKA AND TO
MAKE PROVISIONS  FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Active Liability
Management Act, No.    of 2018 and shall come in to operation
on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order published
in the Gazette.
2. The objective of this Act shall be to manage public
debt to ensure the financing needs and payment obligations
of the Government are met at the lowest possible cost over
the medium to long term consistent with a prudent degree
of risk.  
3. The Parliament may, from time to time, by resolution,
approve to raise a sum of money during a particular financial
year which shall not exceed ten percentum  of the total
outstanding debt as at the end of the preceding financial
year, as a loan  whether in or outside Sri Lanka, in terms of the
relevant laws for moneys to be raised including the provisions
of the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422), the Local Treasury
Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417), Registered Stocks and
Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420), or the Foreign Loans
Act, No. 29 of 1957, for and on behalf of the Government for
the purposes of refinancing and pre-financing of public debts
of the Government.
4. (1) The Minister shall with the approval of the
Cabinet of Ministers and subject to the provisions of section
3 of this Act and section 114 of the Monetary Law Act
Short title
and date of
operation.
Raising loans
for the
purpose of
management
of public
debt.
5
10
15
20
25
Objective.
Settlement of
obligations of
the
Government.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Active Liability Management
(Chapter 422), decide on the matters pertaining to and
incidental to the refinancing and pre-financing of public
debts including—
(a) the sum of money to be raised by a loan;
(b) the mode of raising such loan; and
(c) the manner in which such payment obligations of the
Government are settled as he may deem fit including
the buying-back of existing debt and switching
existing debt with new debt.
(2) The decision made by the Minister under subsection
(1) shall be communicated in writing to the Registrar
through the Minister assigned the subject of Central Bank
of Sri Lanka.
(3) The Registrar may, subject to the terms of such
communication and to any directions as the Minister may
issue in that behalf—
(a) make all such arrangements as may be necessary to
raise such loan; and
(b) effect such arrangements to settle obligations of the
Government upon the most favourable terms that may
be obtained in the interest of the Government.
5. Any loan raised for and on behalf of the Government
for the purposes of refinancing and pre-financing of public
debts of the Government shall be exempted from the
application of the provisions of section 2 (1)( b) of the
Appropriation Act, No. 30 of 2017 and also from the
application of the provisions of any annual Appropriation
Act which is enacted after the date of commencement of the
Appropriation Act, No 30 of 2017.
5
10
15
20
25
Exemption
from the
application of
the
provisions of
the
Appropriation
Act.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Active Liability Management
5
10
15
20
25
30
6. (1) Any loan raised under this Act where—
(a) the monetary unit is Sri Lanka rupees shall be
retained in one or more accounts maintained
by the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury as
may be nominated by the Secretary to the
Treasury, in writing, on that behalf, at the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka or at a licensed
commercial bank subject to the provisions
of section 107 of the Monetary Law Act
(Chapter 422);
(b) the monetary unit is foreign currency shall be
retained in one or more accounts maintaind
by the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury as
may be nominated by the Secretary to the
Treasury, in writing, on that behalf, at the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
(2) The principal money and the interest, if any, which is
in any account maintained at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
or at a licensed commercial bank shall be part of the
Consolidated Fund as assets of Sri Lanka but as a ring-fenced
account.
(3) The Moneys retained under subsection (1) shall only
be used for the purposes of refinancing and pre-financing of
public debts in achieving the objective of this Act.
7. Details of all loans raised, money retained in the
accounts maintained at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka or at a
licensed commerical bank and the settlement of obligations
of the Government made under the provisions of this Act
shall be incorporated in the reports relating to the
Government’s fiscal performance, which are required to be
tabled in Parliament under the Fiscal Management
(Responsibility) Act, No. 3 of 2003.
8. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, all documents or instruments made or used under
the provisions of this Act shall be free from stamp duty.
Reporting
under the
Fiscal
Management
(Responsibility)
Act, No. 3 of
2003.
Loans a
charge upon
Consolidated
Fund.
Exemption
from stamp
duties.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Active Liability Management
9. A person, being-
(a) a member of the Monetary Board;
(b) an officer, employee, servant or agent of the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka; or
(c) an officer, employee, servant or agent of the
Ministry of the Minister,
shall not be held liable in any suit, prosecution or other
legal proceeding for anything done or purported to be done
in the discharge or intended discharge of his obligations
under this Act or any regulation, Order, decision or directive
issued and made thereunder, if he proves that he acted in
good faith and exercised all due diligence, reasonable care
and skill.
10. (1) The Minister may make regulations on the advice
of the Monetary Board, in respect of all matters required by
this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulations
are authorised by this Act to be made.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations in respect of all or any of the following
matters:-
(a) the conditions subject to which debt may be
refinanced and pre-financed;
(b) the manner and the procedures applicable to the
refinancing and pre-financing of debt; and
(c) any other matters as may be necessary for the
purpose of achieving the objective of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
Defence in
criminal or
civil
proceeding.
.Regulations.

<!-- page 6 -->

Active Liability Management 5
(3)  Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication, or on such later date may be
specified in the regulation.
(4)  Every regulation made by the Minister shall, within
three months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval.Any such regulation which
is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from
the date of its disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(5)  Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.
11. The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette
delegate to the Secretary to the Treasury any power conferred
on the Minister by this Act except under sections 4 and 10
subject to such conditions, reservations and restrictions as
may be specified in the Order.
12. Any person who contravenes any provision of this
Act commits an offence under this Act and shall be liable on
conviction after summary trail by a Magistrate, to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a fine
not less than three million rupees and not exeeding ten
million rupees or where the offence has resulted in monetary
loss or a loss which is quantifiable in monetary terms to the
Government, to a fine equivalent to twice the value of such
loss or to both such imprisonment and fine.
13. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between
the provisions of this Act and the provisions of any other
written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
5
10
15
20
25
Delegation of
powers of the
Minister
assigned the
subject of
Finance.
Offences.
This Act to
prevail over
other laws.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Active Liability Management
14. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Central Bank of Sri Lanka” means the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka established under the Monetary Law Act
(Chapter 422);
“financial year” means a period of twelve months
commencing on First of January and ending on
Thirty First of December;
“licensed commercial bank” means a bank licensed under
the provisions of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988
to carry out commercial banking activities;
“Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject of
Finance;
“Monetary Board” means the Monetary Board of the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka established under the
Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422);
“pre-financing” includes financial arrangements made in
advance to restructure an existing outstanding debt
in order to change the conditions and terms of such
debt;
“public debt” means all financial obligations attendant
to loans raised or guaranteed and securities issued
or guaranteed by the Government and includes
interest on that debt, sinking fund charges, the
repayment or amortization of debt and all
expenditure in connection with the raising of the
loans on the security of revenues of the Government
and on the service and redemption of the debt
thereby created;
5
10
15
20
25
Interpretation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Active Liability Management 7
“refinancing” includes the substitution of an existing
outstanding debt or debts with another debt or
debts; and
“Registrar” means the Registrar appointed under the
provisions of the Registered Stocks and Securities
Ordinance (Chapter 420).
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Active Liability Management
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING