

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2032$3 - 2017 wf.daia;= ui 14 jeks i÷od - 2017'08'14
No. 2032/3 – MONDA Y, AUGUST 14, 2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
1A
1A - PG 3648 - 17 (2017/09)
PART  IV  (A)  - PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Provincial Council Notification
Uva Provincial Council
Uva Entrepreneur Development Program of  Provincial Council of Uva Province Statute No. 02 of 2017
The above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 13th of J uly, 2017 has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 24th of July, 2017 and which is here b y published for the
notification of the public.
R. A. H. A. SAMARASINGHE,
Secretary,
Uva Provincial Council.
Councial Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
King's Street,
Badulla,
02nd August, 2017.
UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Uva Entrepreneur Development Program of Provincial Council of Uva Province Statute No. 2 of 2017
This Statute deems ordinance to finite the Statute of Uva Entrepreneur Development No. 01 of 2000 of Uva Provincial Council
and deem incidental ordinance for that and form trustee and management board for them and institutes a program on a theme
of "Our Hands for Your Strength" for Uva Entrepreneur Development which continues on a goal of providing contribution to
the nation and the province whilst creating a market of generating job opportunities by the promotion of service venture and

<!-- page 2 -->

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 14.08.2017
2A
production which distributive the activity of entrepreneurship and income comprehensively as be able to succeed the challenge
by manipulating the potentiality and technology which inherent to the Uva Province to be precise the above goal,
The Uva Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka shall promulgate as this manner.
PART  01
1. This Statute known as Uva Entrepreneur Development Programme No. 2 of 2017 and this shall come
into effect from the date of receiving approval of the Governor of Uva Provincial Council or the day
prescribed by the Governor, hereinafter referred as "Governor".
2. (1) Hereinafter this Statute known as "Programme" and the institution known "Uva Entrepreneur
Development Programme" shall be instituted.
(2) By the sub section (1) the Administration of the programme and represent then given name and
able to manipulate potential existence and common seal, sue by said incorporated name and may sue
against it.
(3) A board of trustee shall be appointed by the Governor of Uva Provincial to make policy decision
of this Program and approve medieval plans and review the programme.
(4) A "Board of Uva Entrepreneur Management" shall be set as known "Management Board" to plan
the activities of this Programme and enforce and direct hereinafter.
3. Rural Financial Institutions, State Financial Institutions, State Institutions, Non-governmental
organizations and Private sectors etc, would be the parties of "Uva Entrepreneur Development
Programme.
4. (1) The common seal should be kept in the possession of the Secretary of the Management Board
shown here in the section 28.
(2) The common seal should be in accordance to the approved form of the Board of Management.
5. The registered address would be "Deputy Chief Secretary (Planning) office of Uva Provincial Council
or the address would be in a place which decided by the Board of Programme Management.
6. Construct a competitive Entrepreneur culture in the Uva Province at the year of 2025.
7. The Mission of this program would be "Providing contribution for the economic development by the
venture of promotion of entrepreneurship enforcement and the income distributive shall be widely as
able to be succeeded the challenges by utilizing the inherent potential and new Technology of Uva
Province".
8. The goals of the program shall be as mentioned below.
(1) Bring up the provincial contribution to a higher level for gross national production via business
promotion of Uva.
(2) Expanding the current national and international market opportunities for the production of Uva
Province.
(3) Providing necessary technical and instructions and other incidental services to the entrepreneurs
of Uva Province.
Short name
and Date of
operation
Enforcing Uva
Entrepreneur
development
Programme
Parties of the
Programme
Seal
Registered
address
Vision
Mission
Objective

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 14.08.2017
(4) Providing necessary financial facilities to entrepreneurship development to the entrepreneure in
the Uva province to those who interest to engage in providing active contribution for the economic
Development.
(5) Utilizing the current potential of the province for the purpose of production and as eco-friendly.
9. The tasks and duties Development programme shall be shown below
9.1 Identifying the unemployed youths and entrepreneurs of small and middle levels.
9.2 Acquainting business opportunities on prevailing potential and introducing and enforcing
them.
9.3 Training programs for entrepreneurs and providing assistance for technical knowledge and
experiment activities.
9.4 Conducting development activities such as survey, study and workshop etc.
9.5 Compilation of promoting participation in the state sector, private and non-governmental
organizations.
9.6 Deciding the administration structure of the program and administration of Uva Entrepreneur
Development fund.
9.7 Providing necessary financial facilities for Entrepreneurs and planning Uva Entrepreneur
Development activities and enforcing and debriefing.
9.8 Coordination with linear institutions related to the program operation and the institution
which provide participation loan and the institutions which supply assistance.
9.9 Preparing proposals and enforcing them to strengthen financial base and obtain financial
facilities for the programme.
9.10 Making timely reports concern on activities and progress.
9.11 Leading activities to achieve the goals of the program and the other entire incidental.
PART  02
10. To enforce the program of Uva Entrepreneur Development program, a fund known "Uva Entrepreneur
Development fund" should be instituted and it should be continued as a separate account.
11. The composition of Uva Entrepreneur Development fund should be consisted as below manner.
11.1 The entire amount which under Uva Entrepreneur Development fund No. 01 of 2000 of Uva
Provincial Council,
11.2 All the funds which grant by the Provincial Council time to time,
11.3 All type of charges which recovered from the programmes whilst carried out the tasks and
duties of the programme.
The task and duty
Funds
Composition of
the fund

<!-- page 4 -->

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 14.08.2017
4A
11.4 Other aids and grants.
11.5 Interest and other income of funds may obtain for programme via this Statute.
11.6 Inactive funds instituted by the Government and Nongovernment Institutions to achieve the
objective of this program in accordance with the resolution of the Uva Provincial Council.
11.7 Should be credited to the programme.
12. The payment mentioned below shall be expenditure burden to the Uva Entrepreneur Development
fund.
12.1 The expenditure to enhance the performance and to be accomplished the task and mentioned
matters under this task to be fulfilled the goal of this program.
12.2 Expenditure to be borne for work subjects planned to accomplish the objectives of the
program.
12.3 Grants offering to accomplish the objectives of the pr
12.4 Before commence this statute to be operated, all treaties, agreements, loan and outgoings
existing under Uva Entrepreneur Development fund statute No. 01 of 2000 of Uva Provincial
Council, all treaties, agreements, loan and outgoing should be considered as consolidated
by this.
13. The Management Board holds power to select an appropriate bank to run the bank account for this
fund and operate a bank account and decide the signatories.
14. The financial year of the program begin on first of January and end on December 31st in the calendar
year
15. The auditing of the accounts should be done by an auditor every year apropos to the 154th ordinance
of the constitution.
15.1 The accounts of the programs should be submitted to the auditor for the relevant financial
year before exceeding three months (3) after ending the financial year.
15.2 The Auditor General should forwarded his report along with audited accounts to chairman of
the management board'
15.3 The financial statement should be submitted to the minister with the report of the activities
enforced in the relevant financial year after receiving the statement of the Auditor of the
program and said audited accounts by the chairman of the Management board and the
Minister should make arrangements to submit the copies of the them to the cabinet and the
Provincial Council lapse before six months of the program prior expiration the relevant financial
year of the program.
                                   PART  02
Appointing a board related to the Uva Entrepreneur Development
16. Hereinafter a trustee board Known "Trustee Board" should be appointed for Uva Entrepreneur
Development program. The Trustee Board should be consisted the below mentioned members.
Payment by funds
Accounts
Financial year of
the program
Auditor
Composition of
the Trustee
Board

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 14.08.2017
Appointing the members for the Board should be done by the "Honorable Governor of the Uva
Provincial".
(1) Chief Minister of Uva Province.
(2) Ministers of Uva Province.
(3) Chairman of Uva Province.
(4) Opposition Leader of Uva Province.
(5) Two opposition members who appointed on a concurrence of Uva Provincial council..
(6) The Chief Secretary of Uva Province.
(7) Deputy Chief Secretary of Uva Province (Planning).
17. The Chairman of the trustee board should be the chief Minister of Uva Province and the Secretary of
this board should be the Deputy Chief Secretary of Uva Province.
18. The duties of this board are shown below.
18.1 Preparing a policy concern to the program
18.2 Debrief the activities and progress concern to the program and submitting reports to the
Provincial Council once a year or when necessary.
19. The below mentioned power should be delegated to fulfill the task and duty of the trustee Board of
the Program.
19.1 Preparing necessary policies and operation procedure for the performance of the Program.
19.2 Providing approval for medieval plan made by the Management Board for fulfill the goal of
this Program.
19.3 Scrutinize the matters as of Management board, if there is a difficulty or definition concern
to the performance of the Programme.
19.4 Taking necessary steps to achieve the goals of the programme with Government, Private,
Non-government Organization and foreign institutions.
20. The forum of Trustee Board meeting should be six (6) members.
21. Unless a member deceased, resigned, terminated or vacated the post, shall be borne the post within
the period of office the Provincial Council.
22. (1)  A nominated member may send a written notice to the Governor as that he is resigning the post
except a member appointed by ex-officio and, if the resignation acknowledged by the Governor,
may resign from the post respectively.
(2) In an occasion that a member deceased, resigned, terminated from the post or the post has been
vacant in any other manner, the Governor may consider the ordinance Section 16 and appoint
another person as a successor of the member.
(3) A person who was nominated once as a member of this board may be nominated again as a
member of the board.
23. Meetings of Trustee Board should be held at least once a year or necessary aroused to be held.
Chairman, and
Secretary of
Trustee Board
Duties of
Trustee Board
Power of the
Management
Board
The forum of
Trustee Board
Meeting
Duration of the
Trustee board
member's
Resignation
Meetings of
Trustee board

<!-- page 6 -->

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 14.08.2017
6A
24. Trustee board should not be void on a certain activity, decision or law proceedings, on any vacant
board membership or any defect cause by any membership appointment.
25. On the subject of Uva Entrepreneur Development Program, a management board should appoint a
board such as referred hereinafter "Management Board" to perform the tasks, duties and execute the
power of trustee board.
26. The Board of Management should be consisted below mentioned members such as appointed by
ex-officio. This management board should be appointed by the honorable Governor of Uva Provincial
Council.
1. Chief Secretary of Uva Provincial Council
2. Deputy Chief Secretary of Uva Provincial Council (Planning)
3. Deputy Chief Secretary of Uva Provincial Council (Financial)
4. Secretaries of Ministries of Uva Provincial Council
5. Director of Industry Development Department of Uva Provincial Council
6. Director of Agricultural Department of Uva Provincial Council
7. Director of livestock production and health Department of Uva Province
8. Assistant Directors of small business Development sections of Badulla and Monaragala
9. Commissioner of Co-operative Development Department of Uva Province
10. Chairman of Commerce and Industry board of Uva Province
11. Assistant Director of export Development board
12. Deputy Directors of Teachnical Development Boards of Badulla and Monaragala districts
13. Directors of Badulla and Monaragala Divineguma Department
14. Director of Uva Province Tourism
15. Ayurvedic Commissioner of Uva Province
16. An agent of the financial institution which conducts credit Programe
(B) In any occasion considered necessary to fulfill the task of this Statute by the Management Board,
may get assistances of other useful institutions and persons for this program.
27. The forum of Management board should be 12.
28. The Chief Secretary of Uva Province should be the chairman of the Management board and the
secretary of this Board should be Deputy Chief Secretary of Uva Province. Also the Deputy Chief
Secretary (Finance) should be the Treasurer of this Board.
29. The duties such as policy making, Planning, enforcing, Directing, review and operating relevant to
the entire task and all the duties mentioned in the section 09 which be able to achieve the goal of this
Statute belongs to the management board.
30. Management Board should have necessary Power to fulfill the task and duties of this program and
especially power is a must to do the below mentioned activities or any therin.
30.1 Selecting appropriate persons or institutions, recruiting, assignins service, Utilizing in Service,
Developing capacities, discipline Control and deeming necessary facilities for the activities
of the program.
30.2 Paying approved and agreed staff salary and charges as apt.
30.3 Necessary persons relevant to the goal of the program or agreement with institutions,
affirmation and associated union or fulfilling them for the goal of program.
Management
Board
Members of
Management
Board
Forum of
Management Board
Chairman, Secrtary
and Treasurer of
Management Boad
Duties of
Management Board
Power of the
Management
Board

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 14.08.2017
30.4 Terminating from service and suspend agreements and eliminating from agreements etc,
according to the methodology.
30.5 In an occasion of breaking agreements made by the relevant parties and in an occasion that
there are loss or damages, taking steps to recover the loss and damages.
30.6 Selecting an apt and necessary bank which brings advantage to the program, opening an
account and continuing further.
30.7 Deciding officers that who may sign to operate the accounts.
30.8 Acquiring movable and immovable properties hold up, obtaining rental or granting as a tax,
mortgaging, transferring, gagging or selling.
30.9 Bills, debenture, draft, issuing promissory note, acknowledgment, counter signature,
endorsement, keeping discounts, investing and transactions.
30.10 Determining relevant criteria for borrowers and Institutions which provide partnership loan.
30.11 Deciding Institutions of providing partnership loan.
30.12 Investment as necessary, parts of advance or paying completely.
30.13 Granting re-loans by taking in account the applications by the institutions providing
partnership loan according to the loan granting policy and agreed conditions.
30.14 Determining Ratio for Interest and service fare.
30.15 On cause of failing to grant re-loan, calling back the idle amount which residual in the
partnership loan granting institutions.
30.16 Mediations for the difficulties arising on granting loan on fund and whilst enforcing the
programme.
30.17 Enforcing all activities such as causing to achieve the goal of the program and all other
incidental.
31. Preparing necesary ordinance concern to matters relevant to continue this program subject to the
other section of this Statute, preparing procedures, preparing operation instructions shall be done
by the management board.
32. The management board should meet once in three months or in a necessary occasion.
33. On certain activities of members in the management board, decision or legal proceedings, vacant of
the board or a defect caused by any appointment should not be considered as void.
34. (1)  The meetings should be precised by the Chairman.
(2) In an occasion that chairman is absent, a person appointed by among other members except the
secretary and treasurer should be precised the management meeting.
(3) Necessary steps should be taken for the decision taken in the board meeting by the precised
person and the letters received to the program and the relevant matters to enforce the relevant
plan to fulfill goal of the program.
Ordinance of
Management
Board
Meetings in
Management
Board
Decisions of
Management
Board
Chairman's
liability in the
Management

<!-- page 8 -->

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 14.08.2017
8A
35. The liabilities of the secrtary of Management board shown below.
(1) Maintaining a Membership Register in the Management board.
(2) Calling for meeting, Keeping record and enforcing the decisions taken in the management
meeting.
(3) Preparing and presenting necessary reports for all management board meetings which shown
in this statues.
(4) Providing detailed reports time to time and when requires to the trustee board, Uva Provincial
Council and the institutions providing aid.
(5) Taking steps timely for the letters received to the board and concern to the report.
(6) Debrief concern to the documents and measures.
36. Liabilities of treasurer in the management board shown below.
(1) Maintaining the accounts of fund and transaction report.
(2) Steps taking to pay the payment timely and make arrangements for recovering.
(3) Operating bank accounts, running and comparing monthly.
(4) Manipulating the accounts concern to the participation loan granting institutions,
maintaining and comparing.
(5) Preparing monthly, quarterly, and annual reports on financial concern.
(6) Providing necessary reports and financial details to the Management board.
(7) Providing necessary books, reports and details for auditing purpose.
(8) Preparing and presenting necessary reports to Management board and program meetings.
(9) Presenting annual accounts statements to the management board.
37. The chief Minister of Uva Province holds the power of making all directives to fulfill the objective of
this Statute and enforcing the ordinance or may necessary to empower the matters.
PART  4
Administration and supervision of the programme
38. Opening appropriate accounts concern to the transactions of the program, maintaining apt accounts
books and transactions reporting should be subject to the Deputy Chief Secretary (Planing), the
accounts on income and expenditure of the year and all other dealings for each finance year shall be
kept accurately and preparing annual accounts statements including accounts and statistics relevant
to the program should be prepared.
39. The asset belongs to the program shall be detain in a place where registered or management board
or other place believe where apt. The places and relevant assets should be examined by the management
board members and auditors and the persons received the approvals in management board.
Secretary's
liability in the
Management
Treasurer's libility
in the Management
Comparing
directives
Maintaining
accounts
relevant to the
Assets

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 14.08.2017
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
40. Power shall be delegated to the management board to make nceesary contractual to achieve the goal
of this program, signing such contracts, should be done by the chairman or secretary of the
management board according to opportunism.
41. In a occasion required instructions for beneficial, linear institutions which provide assistance and
other institutions for perofrmance, should appoint a committee or persons by the management board
and make arrangements to get instructions, the service of persons and committee shall be liquidated
when the task and time ended.
42. Paying for the expenditure of management and administration of the program shall be done by the
program of fund and the said expenditure may borne on supervising and approval of the management
board.
43. Below mentioned meetings shall be conducted on concern to the program
(1) Trustee board meeting.
Meetings shall be conducted once in a year or necessary occasions on a request of the chief
Minister to evaluate the performance of the programs and make policies,
(2) Management board meeting
According to the request of the Chairman and on a notification of before 14 days by the
Secretary, meet up once in four months or in necessary occasions.
44. In this statute, unless the text otherwise requires,
(1) "The Minister" means Chief Minister of Uva Provincial Council.
(2) "The Governor" means Governor of Uva Province.
(3) The Cabinet of Uva Provincial council shall be known as "Cabinet".
45. The Statute of Uva Entrepreneur Development Fund No. 01 of 2000 which under operation should be
finite after getting approval for this statute. Whereas the steps taken under the previous statute
before approved shall be exist with legal power.
46. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and English texts of this Statute, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
08 - 959
Power to enter
into agreements
Consultants
Maintaining
accounts
relevant to the
Conduct
Meetings
Interpretation
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency