

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1508
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … 1508
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"027 – 2017 cQ,s ui 07 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'07'07
No. 2,027 –  FRIDAY ,  JULY  07, 2017
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th July, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th  July, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satis ﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.– Parts II, III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2,026 of 30.06.2017 were not published.
1505 - B 81186- 5,403 (07/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1506
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Ofﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Of ﬁ cers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public of ﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Pro ﬁ ciency Test 
in one of the Of ﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Pro ﬁ ciency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such of ﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain pro ﬁ ciency in 
one of the of ﬁ cial languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  pro
ﬁ ciency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Of ﬁ cer already con ﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Of ﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public of ﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Ofﬁ cer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Ofﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to inﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disquali ﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1507
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identiﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any ﬁ le cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufﬁ cient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should 
be accurate and suf ﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1508
Posts – Vacant
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION 
Vacancies in the Judicial Service of Sri Lanka 
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Post of Judicial Ofﬁ cer 
Class II Grade I (Magistrate) in Sri Lanka Judicial Service. 
01. Applications should be made by persons having the 
required qualiﬁ cations and they should reach the Judicial 
Service Commission Secretariat on or before 08.08.2017.
02. Salary Scale.- Rs. 34,335 - 6x790 - Rs. 39,075 
(Payments will be made by revising this salary scale in 
accordance with the Management Services Circular No. 
05/2016).
Allowances to which the Judicial of ﬁ cers are entitled, 
would be paid in addition to the salary. 
03. Every applicant must be : 
 ( a) a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 ( b) of excellent moral character and physically ﬁ t. 
 ( c) prepared to serve in any part of the island. 
04. Eligibility : 
 ( a) A President of Labour Tribunal whose period of 
service as such President, Labour Tribunal is not 
less than two years ; or
 ( b) An Attorney-at-Law who has or had been in 
active practice for not less than ﬁ ve years ; or
 ( c) An Attorney-at-Law who has served in the 
capacity of a Legal Of ﬁ cer in any Ministry or 
Government Department or a State Corporation 
for not less than ﬁ ve years ; or
 ( d) An Attorney-at-Law who has served in the 
capacity of a Legal Of ﬁ cer in any Firm, Bank 
or establishment for not less than ﬁ ve years and 
who has regularly appeared before court during 
such period. 
05. Applicants will be called for an interview based on 
the results of a written test to be held in August 2017.
Note : 
 (i) The receipt obtained by paying Rs. 3,000 as 
application fee from any People's Bank branch 
to the credit of the account of "Secretary, Judicial 
Service Commission" No. 297100199025039 of 
the People's Bank, Dam Street branch should be 
sent to the J. S. C. Secretariat either by registered 
post or personally to obtain the application form. 
When ﬁ lling the receipt at the time of payment, 
the applicant's name and address should be stated 
in the space provided in the receipt. 
 (ii) Applicants are kindly requested to forward 
their applications either by registered post or by 
personally to the JSC Secretariat. 
 (iii) Applications from the of ﬁ cers in the Public 
Service must be forwarded through the Head of 
the Department. 
The address for obtaining and sending applications : 
Secretary, 
Judicial Service Commission, 
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat, 
Colombo 12. 
 G. M. W. P. J
AYATHILAKE,
 Acting Secretary, 
 Judicial Service Commission.  
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat, 
Colombo 12, 
22nd June, 2017.
07-211
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
HEALTH SERVICE COMMITTEE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF PRIMARY GRADE MEDICAL OFFICER IN SRI LANKA AYURVEDA 
MEDICAL SERVICE - 2017
APPLICATIONS are invited from quali ﬁ ed applicants for selection of quali ﬁ ed of ﬁ cers satisfying quali ﬁ cations 
mentioned in this noti ﬁ cation by 01.01.2017 to recruit for vacancies existing in the post of Primary Grade Medical 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1509
Ofﬁ cer under Medical Ofﬁ cer Category in the Department 
of Ayurveda by order of the Health Service Committee of 
the Public Service Commission. Applications prepared 
in the specimen form given at the end of this noti ﬁ cation 
should be sent, by registered post, to reach Commissioner 
of Ayurveda, Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa 
Road, Nawinna, Maharagama on or before the date under 
mentioned. "Recruitment to the Post of Primary Grade 
Medical Ofﬁ cer of Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service" 
should be noted clearly on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope. Further, the name of recruitment should be 
included also in English as well as in Sinhala in Sinhala 
applications and in English as well as in Tamil in Tamil 
applications. 
 ( a) Closing date for inviting applications is 08.08.2017. 
Note.- No complaint to the effect of loss or delay in 
delivery of any application or a related letter may 
be entertained. The applicants must themselves 
bear the losses caused by delaying submission of 
their applications up to the closing date. 
01. Methodology of Recruitment.- Recruitments will be 
made based on existing vacancies to be ﬁ lled by interviewing 
Graduates of Medicine who have satisﬁ ed all qualiﬁ cations 
mentioned in paragraph 5 in this notiﬁ cation by 01.01.2017 
and have not received appointments in Public Service so far 
after the last recruitment made and who belong to batches 
in subsequent years, in order of the years in which they 
have got through their ﬁ nal Examination of graduation and 
in merit order based on marks scored at such examination. 
2. Conditions of employment : 
 (i) This is a permanent post, you have to be 
subject to the Policy decision to be taken by the 
government in future on the scheme of pension 
you are entitled to. 
 (ii) Of ﬁ cers appointed to this post will be subject to 
a probation period of three (03) years and once 
recruited to Primary Grade posts, promotions 
will be made in conformity with terms and 
conditions of the Minutes of the Sri Lanka 
Ayurveda Medical Service. 
 (iii) As per provisions of Public Administration 
Circular No. 01/2014 of 21.01.2014 and circulars 
incidental thereto, gaining of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency should be proved in accordance with 
government policies prior to the passage of ﬁ ve 
years of the date of accepting this appointment. 
Further, if quali ﬁ cations were ful ﬁ lled for this 
appointment in English language, pro ﬁ ciency 
of one out of the two languages of Sinhala and 
Tamil as the of ﬁ cial language at his discretion 
should be received in 03 years of the date of 
appointment, i. e., during the probation period, 
and the proﬁ ciency of the other ofﬁ cial language 
should be received in 5 years of the date of 
appointment. 
 (iv) He should remain in service at the service station 
he assumed duties under the ﬁ rst appointment up 
to the end of the probation period of three (03) 
years and no transfers should be expected during 
this period. 
 (v) This appointment is subject to procedural rules of 
the Public Service Commission, Establishments 
Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka, terms and conditions in the Minutes of the 
Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service published 
in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 924/2 of 20th 
May 1996 of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka and other Departmental regulations. 
03. Salary Scale.-  This post is entitled to a monthly 
salary scale of Rs. 52,955 - 3x1,335 - 7x1,345 - 2x1,630 
- 16x2,170 - Rs. 104,355 (SL-2-2016). (Salaries will be 
paid based on the provisions in the Schedule II of Public 
Administration Circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016).
04. Age limit.- Should be not above 45 years of age by 
01.01.2017.
05. Qualiﬁ cations : 
Educational/Professional Quali ﬁ cations.- Being a 
registered medical practitioner of the Ayurveda Medical 
Council following a degree received by completion of a 
period of one year internship training preceded by a ﬁ ve 
year course of study of Ayurveda/Siddha/Yunani in a 
recognized university. 
 5.1 Physical Quali ﬁ cations.- Every applicant 
should :
 (i) Be willing to serve in any area in Sri 
Lanka ; and 
 (ii) Posses physical and mental ﬁ tness 
sufﬁ cient to perform duties in the post. 
 5.2 Other Qualiﬁ cations : 
 (i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri 
Lanka, 
 (ii) Applicants should possess an excellent 
character,
 (iii) Should have ful ﬁ lled in every way the 
qualiﬁ cations required for recruitment to 
the post by 01.01.2017.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1510
06. Interview : 
General Interview.- Educational and other qualiﬁ cations 
will be checked by a board of interview to be approved 
by the Health Service Committee of the Public Service 
Commission. 
07. Identity of Applicants .- Only applicants who have 
submitted applications perfectly completed will be called 
for the interview. Originals of all certi ﬁ cates and duly 
certiﬁ ed copies should be submitted at the interview. 
Applicants should be ready to forward at the interview 
one or all of the following documents on request of the 
Board of Interview :
 (i) Certi ﬁ cate of Birth, 
 (ii) Degree certi ﬁ cate, 
 (iii) Certi ﬁ cate of registration at the Ayurveda 
Medical Council, 
 (iv) Grama Niladhari Certi ﬁ cate countersigned by 
the Divisional Secretary, 
 (v) National Identity Card. 
08. A specimen application is given at the end of 
this noti ﬁ cation. The application should be prepared in 
22x29cm size A4 papers containing heads 01 to 08 on the 
ﬁ rst page and heads 09 to 11 on the second page where 
the relevant particulars have to be inserted clearly in your 
own handwriting. Applications that do not conform to the 
specimen application and are incomplete will be rejected 
without any notice. It will be bene ﬁ cial to keep a copy of 
the relevant application with you. 
09. Furnishing false information.- In case it is revealed 
before recruitment to the post that any of the particulars 
furnished in the application sent by you is false or 
inaccurate, your candidacy will be invalidated. 
If any such information is revealed false after 
recruitment, action will be taken to dismiss him from 
service subject to procedures pertaining to it. 
10. Health Service Committee of the Public Service 
Commission reserves the right to or not to ﬁ ll the vacancies. 
By order of Health Service Committee of the Public 
Service Commission, 
 B. G. S. G
UNATHILAKE, 
 Secretary ( Acting), 
 Secretary, Ministry of Health, 
 Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine. 
16th June, 2017.
 For of ﬁ ce use only
P
OST OF PRIMARY GRADE MEDICAL OFFICER OF THE CATEGORY 
OF MEDICAL OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AYURVEDA OF 
SRI LANKA AYURVEDA SERVICE
01. (i) ( a) Last name with initials (in capital block letters) 
:–––––––––––.
  ( b) Last name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) : 
–––––––––––.
 (ii) ( a) Names denoted by initials (in capital block 
letters) :–––––––––––.
  ( b) Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) 
:–––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent Address (in capital block letters) (letters 
will be sent to this address) :–––––––––––.
  
 (ii) Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
 (iii) Telephone Nos. :
03. (i) Date of Birth : 
  Year  Month  Date
 (ii) Age as at 01.01.2017 : 
  Years  Months  Days
04. Gender :
 Female  Male
 (Mark X in the relevant box)
05. Civil status : 
 Married  Single 
 (Mark X in the relevant box)
06. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––.
07. Nationality :–––––––––.
08. (i) Provincial Council :–––––––––.
 (ii) District :–––––––––.
 (iii) Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––.
  of the permanent address :–––––––––.
09.  NIC No. :

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1511
10. Educational Quali ﬁ cations :
 Particulars of the Degree :
 (BAMS) (BUMS) (BSMS)
 (Mark x in the relevant box)
 1. University/institution :–––––––––––.
 2. Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––.
 3. Class :–––––––––––.
 4. Medium in which the degree was completed :–––––.
 5. Year of practical training :–––––––––––.
11.  Particulars of registration in Ayurveda Medical 
Council : 
 1. Number :–––––––––––.
 2. Year :–––––––––––.
I hereby certify that particulars furnished in this 
application are true and correct. I am aware that I will be 
disqualiﬁ ed to this post and be subject to be dismissed from 
service without any compensation if any of the particulars 
herein was revealed to the Appointing Authority to be false 
or inaccurate after my recruitment to the post of Ayurveda 
Medical Ofﬁ cer. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Certiﬁ cation of applicant's signature : 
I certify that ..................... (full name) who is forwarding 
this application is personally known to me and he/she 
placed his signature before me on .................
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature and of ﬁ cial stamp of the ofﬁ cer,
 Certifying signature. 
Date  :–––––––––––.
If the applicant is a public servant, the report of the Head 
of the Department : 
I certify that the above mentioned particulars are true 
and his/her work and conduct are ..................... He/she can 
be released from his present post. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature and of ﬁ cial stamp of the 
 Head of the Department. 
Date  :–––––––––––.
07-156
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION 
FOR PROMOTION TO THE POSTS OF 
ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF 
CUSTOMS, CLASS II -2017
To Chief Inspectors of Customs and
Inspectors of Customs (Grade 1)
APPLICATIONS are invited from
 ( a)  Chief Inspectors of Customs  or
 ( b) Inspectors of Customs who have been con ﬁ rmed in 
the post  0f Inspector of Customs Grade 1,having 
completed satisfactory service of 02 years in the 
said post,
who possess the quali ﬁ cations mentioned below, to 
ﬁ ll 15% of the existing vacancies in the post of Assistant 
Superintendent Grade II.
Professional Qualiﬁ cations:
The applicant
 (i) Should have completed active and satisfactory 
period of service of immediately preceding 05 
years by the closing date of applications and 
have earned all the due salary increments during 
the said period.
 (ii) Should have performed average or higher 
performance level in accordance with the 
approved scheme of performance appraisal.
 (iii) Should have passed the relevant ef ﬁ ciency bar 
examinations.
Method of Application. – The application should be in 
the form of the specimen appended to this Notiﬁ cation and 
should be prepared on A4 paper using both sides. Heading 
Number 1 to 9 should appear on the ﬁ rst side of the paper 
and the rest should appear on the other side of the paper. 
It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that 
the application form perfected by him complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice and retaining 
a copy of the dully ﬁ lled application with the candidate 
may be more appropriate/ useful. It is essential to indicate 
the title of the examination in English language as well, 
in Sinhala and Tamil applications. Incomplete applications 
will be rejected.
The completed application forms prepared in conformity 
with the specimen must be sent by the candidates to reach 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1512
the Additional Director General (Human Resources) on or 
before 04.08.2017 through the Heads of their Directorates.
The examination fee is Rs. 500. This fee should be paid at 
any Post ofﬁ ce /Sub Post ofﬁ ce to the credit of the Revenue 
Head Number 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General 
of Examinations. The receipt obtained by the candidate 
should be af ﬁ xed ﬁ rmly using one of its edges to the 
relevant cage of the application form. It is more appropriate 
to retain a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. This 
fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.Money 
orders or Stamps will not be accepted for the payment of 
examination fees.
02. The Examination shall consist of two parts namely 
the Written Examination and the General Interview. Marks 
and time allocation for each paper is as follows :
Part I
Written Examination Marks
Procedure of Customs (2 hours) 100
Simple Mathematics (01 hour) 100
Part II
General Interview (No marks will be given.)
(To verify whether the candidates have ful ﬁ lled the 
minimum quali ﬁ cations for recruitment to the 
post).
03. This examination will be conducted in all the three 
Languages Sinhala, Tamil and English. Candidates should 
sit the whole examination in one language medium and can 
select the medium in which they were quali ﬁ ed to enter 
into the current service. It is not permitted to change the 
language medium applied after submission of applications. 
The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations 
with regard to the conducting of the examination and 
issuance of the results shall be the ﬁ nal.
04.  The syllabus of the subjects of this Examination is 
as follows :
  Syllabus: Customs Procedures
 (i) ( a) Loading, unloading, storage and clearance of 
sea cargo/ air cargo
  ( b) Duties of a Grade II Assistant Superintendent 
of Customs in charge of an import warehouse
  ( c) Completion of Blue Book
  ( d) Duties of a Grade II Assistant Superintendent 
of Customs in charge of the liquor 
warehouse  
 (ii) Export-  ( a) Procedure followed with respect to 
Lading of Export Cargo
    ( b) Scrutiny of Export details
   ( c) Maintenance of Stock Book
 (iii) Transshipment Cargo- 
 ( a) De-stuf ﬁ ng and stufﬁ ng of Sea cargo
 ( b) Preparation of Transshipment manifest
 ( c) Coastal / Offshore Lading
 (iv) Clearance Process related to bonded warehouses
 (v) General-  
 • Refunds and conditions on certi ﬁ cation of 
refunds
 • Regulations stipulated for refund of duty
 • Schedule of restricted and prohibited goods 
(to the country and from the country)
 • Enforcement powers vested by the Customs 
Ordinance for taking action in respect of 
undeclared goods, false declaration and 
undervaluation of goods
 • Procedures prescribed in the Customs 
Ordinance for examination /searching and 
taking into custody
 • Provisions laid down in the Customs 
Ordinance with regard to the illegal 
exportation and importation and all 
departmental orders related to the duties of 
the ofﬁ cers
05. The syllabus of Simple Mathematics paper will 
consist of the following :
This is a simple arithmetic paper to test the ability 
of the candidate in arithmetic operations such as 
addition, subtraction, multiplication and division, 
the speed of solving mathematical questions 
and mathematical and logical intelligence of the 
candidate.
06.1 Candidates who score minimum 40% for 
each paper (Customs procedures and Simple 
Mathematics) or secure an aggregate of 100 marks 
or above for both papers shall be quali ﬁ ed to 
appear for the interview.
6.2 
Results of the examination :
 The list of results comprised of the names of 
successful candidates as per para. 6.1 above, will 
be sent to the Director General of Customs. The 
Department of Examinations may communicate 
the results personally to all candidates who sat the 
examination, by post or, will take action to publish 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1513
results in the of ﬁ cial website www.results.exams.
gov.lk.
07. 
 07.1 On the presumption that applications have 
been forwarded by persons who have ful ﬁ lled 
the quali ﬁ cations referred to in the Gazette 
notiﬁ cation, admission cards will be issued by 
the Commissioner General of Examinations to 
all candidates who have submitted applications. 
A notiﬁ cation will be published in newspapers 
by the Department of Examinations immediately 
after the admission cards are issued to candidates. 
If the admission card is not received even after 2 
or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be 
taken by the applicant to notify the Department 
of Examinations in the manner speci ﬁ ed in the 
advertisement. The name of the examination, 
full name of the applicant, Identity card No. 
and the address should be mentioned when 
informing the Department of Examinations. In 
case of applicants outside Colombo, it will be 
more effective to send a letter of request to the 
fax number mentioned in the said advertisement 
furnishing a fax number to which the admission 
card should be sent. Further, it would be advisable 
to retain a copy of the application, copy of the 
receipt relevant to payment of examination 
fee and the receipt of postal registration of the 
application to prove any information requested 
by the department of Examinations.
 07.2 A Candidate must sit the examination according 
to the index number at the examination hall 
assigned to him/her. Every candidate must get 
his signature attested in advance and hand over 
the admission card to the supervisor on the 
ﬁ rst day he/she presents himself/herself for the 
examination. A candidate who fails to produce 
his/her admission card will not be permitted to 
sit the examination.
 07.3  Candidates will be required to prove their identity 
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor. Any of the following documents will 
be accepted for this purpose:
 (a) National Identity Card issued by the 
Department of Registration of Person.
 (b) A valid passport 
08. This examination will be held only in Colombo. The 
date of the examination and the place will be noti ﬁ ed in 
due course.
09. Candidates will be subject to the rules and regulations 
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations 
with respect to conducting of examinations and release of 
the results. In case of violating these rules and regulations, 
he/ she will be liable to a punishment to be imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations.  
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Gazette Notiﬁ cation, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail. Any matter not provided for 
in these regulations will be dealt with at the discretion of 
the Secretary, to the Ministry of Finance.
 Director General of Customs.
Sri Lanka Customs Department,
“Customs House”,
No.40, Main Street,
Colombo 11
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
L
IMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION TO THE 
POSTS OF ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT OF CUSTOMS, CLASS II 
DEPARTMENT OF SRI LANKA CUSTOMS– 2017
 (for of ﬁ ce use only)
Medium in which you sit this examination: 
 Sinhala  – 2 
 Tamil  – 3 
 English  – 4 
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
01. Name of the applicant: 
 1.1 Name in Full :–––––––––––.
  (in English Block Capitals) 
  ( Eg. HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN 
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
  (in English Block  Capitals) 
  ( Eg. GUNAWARDHANA, H.M.S.K)
 1.3 Name in Full (in Sinhala/ Tamil)  :–––––––––––.
02.  Address to which the admission card should be sent: 
(in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
03. Particulars of the National Identity Card:
 3.1  National Identity Card Number:
 3.2  Departmental Identity Card Number :–––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1514
04. Sex:
  Male     – 0 
  Female – 1 
  (Write the relevant number inside the box)
05. Present post and date of appointment to the post :                
––––––––––––.
06.  Date of conﬁ rmation in the present post :––––––––––.
07.  Medium of recruitment to the post :––––––––––––. 
08.  Current working place :––––––––––––.
09.  Was any disciplinary inquiry held against you within 
the period of last 5 years? :––––––––––––.
10.  Educational Qualiﬁ cations :––––––––––––.
11.  Other Special Qualiﬁ cations :––––––––––––.
12.  Details of the payment of Examination Fee:
 I. Name of the Post Of ﬁ ce /Sub Post ofﬁ ce :––––––.
 II. Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
 III. Amount Paid :Rs. :––––––––––––.
 IV . Date of payment :––––––––––––.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
13. Applicant’s Declaration/Certiﬁ cation :
I do hereby state that the particulars given by me in the 
application are true and correct. I am eligible to sit for the 
examination in the medium referred to in para. 03 above.   
Furthermore, I agree to abide by rules and regulations 
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding the conducting of the examination.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Applicant.
    
Date :––––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant’ s signature (Delete whichever 
inapplicable) :
I Certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who 
is submitting this application is an of ﬁ cer in the staff of 
my ofﬁ ce/ Directorate and he/she is personally known to 
me. He/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this 
…………day of ………2017. 
Signature :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name:––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Ofﬁ cial stamp :––––––––––––.
Certiﬁ cation of the Head of the Department 
This is to certify Mr./Mrs./Miss. .......................... 
submitting this application is serving in the Post of Chief 
Inspector of Customs/Inspector of Customs Grade I in the 
staff of my ofﬁ ce and  the particulars referred to in para 01 
to II are true and accurate. I also certify he/she has paid the 
prescribed examination fee and af ﬁ xed the receipt herein 
and is eligible to sit for the above examination.  
Signature :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Ofﬁ cial stamp :––––––––––––.       
07–53
–––––––––––––––––              
MINISTRY  OF  MAHAWELI  
DEVELOPMENT  AND  ENVIRONMENT 
Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal 
Resource Management
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR 
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF TECHNICAL 
ASSISTANT OF CLASS III OF SRI LANKA 
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2017
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the citizens of 
Sri Lanka who ful ﬁ ll the quali ﬁ cations stipulated in this 
notiﬁ cation for the Open Competitive Examination for 
recruitment to the Post of Technical Assistant of Class III 
of Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Department of 
Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management 
(by the Director General of Coast Conservation and Coastal 
Resource Management).
No. of posts to which the recruitments to be made  - 06
Technical Assistant (Civil)  - 05
Technical Assistant (Mechanical)  - 01

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1515
01. Conditions of Service :
Recruitments will be made to the Post of Technical 
Assistant of Class III of Sri Lanka Technological Service 
subject to the general conditions governing appointments 
in the Public Service, the conditions mentioned herein 
and conditions stipulated in the Service Minute of the Sri 
Lanka Technological Service :
 1.1  Of ﬁ cers to be selected will be subject to the 
condition  that they should serve in any part of 
the country,
 1.2  This appointment is subject to a probation period 
of three (03) years. If an of ﬁ cer who already 
serves in a permanent post in the Public Service 
is appointed to the post he will be subject to an 
Acting Period of one (01) year,
 1.3  In order to make the appointment permanent, 
the First Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination should be 
passed before 03rd increment date from the date 
of ﬁ rst appointment,
 1.4  According to the Public  Administration Circular 
No. 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007 the proﬁ ciency in 
Second Language should be obtained within 05 
years from the date of appointment,
 1.5  Of ﬁ cer to be appointed shall be subject to 
the procedural rules of the Public Service 
Commission, provisions of the Establishment 
Code, Financial Regulations, rules and 
regulations imposed by the Government from 
time to time and the regulations of the Ministry 
and the Department.
02. Salary Scale. – As per the Public Administration 
Circular No. 03/2016 (IV) the salary scale is MN-3-2016
Rs. 31,040 - 10x445 - 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 -                
Rs. 57,550/=
(You are entitled to this salary by 01.01.2020. The 
salary will be paid with effective from the date of 
appointment in conformity with the provisions in the 
Schedule II of the said circular.).
03. Age Limit :
 3.1  Shall be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years of age as at the closing date of 
the application. The maximum age limit will be 
not applicable to ofﬁ cers who are already in the 
Public Service.
 3.2  Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 3.3  Shall be of good character and shall be 
physically ﬁ t.
04. Educational Qualiﬁ cations :
 ( a)  Shall have passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination 
in Six (06) subjects with Credit passes for 
Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Mathematics 
and another 02 subjects, at one sitting.
  and
 ( b)  Shall have passed G.C.E. (A/L) Examination 
in Three (03) subjects in Mathematics/Science/
Technology stream, including 02 subjects 
related to the ﬁ eld, at one sitting (except for 
General Test) (it is sufﬁ cient to pass 03 subjects 
at one sitting under the old syllabus)
 ( c)  Shall have followed a course recognized 
by the Tertiary and V ocational Education 
Commission on MS-Excel or Auto Cad related 
to the ﬁ eld of duty will be considered as an 
added qualiﬁ cation.
05. Professional Qualiﬁ cations.– 
  * Technical Assistant (Civil and Mechanical)
 (i)  National Diploma in Technology awarded by 
the University of Moratuwa or Hardy Technical 
College Ampara
or
 (ii)  National Diploma in Engineering awarded by 
the National Apprenticeship and Industrial 
Training Authority
or
 (iii)  Higher National Diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the Ministry of Education and 
Higher Education
or
 (iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open 
University of Sri Lanka
or
 (v)  Successful completion of Part I of the 
Engineering Examination conducted by the 
Institution of Engineers (IESL), Sri Lanka
or

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1516
 (vi)  Completion of Level 6 of National V ocational 
Qualiﬁ cation (NVQ - 6th Level) related to the 
ﬁ eld ;
or
 (vii)  Any other technological quali ﬁ cation 
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission as being equivalent in 
each and every aspect to the aforementioned 
technological quali ﬁ cations, subsequent to 
obtaining views of the Ministry of Higher 
Education and other Institutions by which the 
aforementioned certiﬁ cates issued.
  The aforementioned quali ﬁ cations should be 
related to the ﬁ eld relevant to the post.
06. Method of Recruitment.– Applicants who have 
fulﬁ lled the  basic quali ﬁ cations should sit for the Open 
Competitive Examination conducted by the Department of 
Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management.
Applicants shall have to obtain minimum of 40% 
or more than that for each question paper in the open 
Competitive Examination and quali ﬁ ed candidates shall 
be selected by calling for a general interview. A number 
of candidates equivalent to the number of recruitments 
expected to be made will be called for the interview on the 
order of their merit determined on the aggregate of marks.
07. Examination :
 7.1  The Examination will be conducted in Sinhala 
and Tamil Medium.
 7.2  Applicants can sit for the examination in their 
preferred medium and it will be not allowed 
to change the preferred medium  at the 
Examination.
 7.3  Examination Fee is Rs. 500.00.
  A money order drawn in the name of 
Director General of Coast Conservation and 
Coastal Resource Management which can be 
exchanged at the Post of ﬁ ce  at Maligawatta, 
should be afﬁ xed to the application. (It should 
not be pasted on the application)
 7.4  Subjects of the Examination - consist of 02 
papers.
 1.  Intelligence Test - Time Duration 01 hour - 
Total Marks 100
 2.  Common General Test - Time Duration 01 
hour - Total Marks 100
 7.5  The examination will be held at the Sri Lanka 
Institute of Development Administration in 
October 2017.
 7.6  Syllabus
 1.  Intelligence Test - Time Duration 01 hour 
- Total Marks 100
 * To assess the candidate's capacity for 
comprehension and intelligence by 
examining the candidate's inferences and 
responses to problems presented in verbal, 
numerical and spatial contexts.
 2.  Common General Test - Time Duration 01 
hour - Total Marks 100
* Technical Assistant (Civil)
 (i)  Management of the coastal area
* What is meant by management of coastal 
area?
* How does the management carry out?
 (ii)  Coastal erosion and reasons 
attributed to it/ natural causes/ 
human activities and plants suitable 
to coastal environment
 (iii)  Areas affected by coastal erosion, 
annual intensity of coastal erosion, 
precautionary measures to control 
unexpected coastal erosions
* Technical Assistant (Mechanical)
 (i)  Examination paper will be made 
in order to test the knowledge 
of applicant on subjects of 
Physics, Mechanics and Applied 
Mathematics by drawing a cross 
sectional view of front or rear view 
of a machine or part of a machine 
based on a given diagram with the 
use of principles of mechanical 
drawing.
08. Method of sending Applications :
 8.1  The application should be in the form of 
the specimen application appended to this 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1517
notiﬁ cation and should be prepared in paper 
of A4 size by using both sides. It should be 
noted that the application should be prepared 
in such a way that heading 1 to 5 appear on 
the 1st page and remaining sections into 
next pages. Applications should be sent to 
reach the Director General, Department of 
Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource 
Management, 4th Floor, New Secretariat, 
Maligawatta, Colombo 10 on or before 07th 
of August 2017 by registered post. The words 
“Recruitment to the post of Technical Assistant 
of class III of Sri Lanka Technological 
Service” should be clearly indicated on the top 
of left hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application.
Note.– Applicants who are already in the Public 
Service should compulsorily forward their 
applications through respective Head of the 
Department/Institute.
 8.2  The applications which are not completed in 
every respect will be rejected. The complaints 
made in respect of losses or delays of 
applications in the post will not be considered.
 8.3  Receipt of applications will not be noti ﬁ ed to 
the applicants. A notice will be published in 
the newspapers and if the admission card is not 
received 07 days before the examination, steps 
should have to be taken to notify the Director 
General of Coast Conservation and Coastal 
Resource Management immediately with the 
following details.
 (i)  Full name of the applicant,
 (ii)  Address,
 (iii)  Date on which the application was 
posted, registration number and the post 
ofﬁ ce.
09. Applicants should send the copies of following 
certiﬁ cates afﬁ xed to the application :
 (i)  Birth Certi ﬁ cate,
 (ii)  Certi ﬁ cates to prove educational qualiﬁ cations,
 (iii)  Certi ﬁ cates to prove professional qualiﬁ cations.
10. If any matter arisen in respect of a fact not contained 
in this Gazette notice, the authority to take action in this 
regard lies with the Director General of Coast Conservation 
and Coastal Resource Management.
 B. K.P
RABATH CHANDRAKEERTHI, 
 Actg . Director General, 
 Department of Coast Conservation and 
 Coastal Resource Management.
Department of Coast Conservation and 
Coastal Resource Management,
Maligawatta,
On 23rd of June, 2017.
M
INISTRY OF MAHAWELI DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT 
DEPARTMENT OF COAST CONSERV ATION AND 
COASTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR 
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF TECHNICAL 
ASSISTANT OF CLASS III OF SRI LANKA 
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2017
The Post Applied for For of ﬁ cial use only
Medium of Examination :
 Sinhala  - 2
 Tamil  - 3
 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name :
   1.1  Name with Initials (initials at the end) :––––––.
    (In English block capitals - Eg. SILV A A.B)
   1.2  Name denoted by the intials :––––––––––.
    (In English block capitals)
   1.3  Name in full (in Sinhala) :––––––––––.
02. Address :
   2.1  Private :––––––––––.
   2.2  Of ﬁ cial :––––––––––.
   2.3  Telephone Numbers :––––––––––. 
   Private :––––––––––.
03. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––.
04.    4.1  Date of Birth :
     Year Month Date 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1518
     4.2 National Identity Card No. : 
05.   5.1 Gender : 
    Female Male
   5.2 Marital Status : 
    Married 
    Unmarried
    Widowed 
06. Educational Quali ﬁ cations : 
   *  G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) : 
    Year :––––––––––.
    Index Number :––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
   *  G. C. E. (Advanced Level) : 
    Year :––––––––––.
    Index Number :––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
07. Technical Quali ﬁ cations : 
Name 
of the 
Course
Institution 
in which the 
course was 
followed
Duration 
of the 
Course
Grade Certi ﬁ cate 
Number 
and Date 
of Award
08. Experience : 
Professional Experience Institution Duration 
09. Details on Language Pro ﬁ ciencies : 
Language Reading Writing Speaking
10. Name of the Post Of ﬁ ce to which the Examination 
Fees are paid  :––––––––––.
 Number of the Money Order :––––––––––.
The total examination fee is Rs. 500. The original 
receipt of the money order drawn in the name 
of Director General of Coast Conservation and 
Coastal Resource Management and the payable 
ofﬁ ce is Post Ofﬁ ce at Maligawattha, should be 
sent afﬁ x to here. 
11. I hereby certify that all the particulars furnished by 
me in this application are true and correct. I am aware 
that, if any particular contained herein is found to 
be false or incorrect, I am liable to disquali ﬁ cation, 
if detected before selection and to dismissal without 
compensation, if detected after appointment. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Relevant only to the ofﬁ cers who are already in the Public 
Service : 
Certiﬁ cation of the Head of the Department or Institute : 
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by the 
ofﬁ cer have checked and they are correct and he can be/
cannot be released from the present post, if selected to the 
above post. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Department. 
 (Of ﬁ cial Seal)
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
07-217

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1519
Amendment 
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT 
Notary's Preliminary Examination - 2016/2017
FOLLOWING amendments are made to the noti ﬁ cation 
pubilshed under 'Notary's Preliminary Examnation 
2016/2017' in Part I : Section (IIA) of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2,019 
dated 12th May, 2017. 
In Section 5.1 which read as "Application should be 
sent by post on or before 12.06.2017" should be changed 
as "Application should be sent by post on or before 
08.08.2017". 
In Section 5.1 of the application for the above 
examination, which read as "Age at 12.06.2017" should be 
changed as "Age at 08.08.2017". 
The applicants who have already submitted their 
applications are not required to re-apply. 
  N
EIL DE ALWIS, 
  Registrar General. 
  Registrar General's Department, 
Baththaramulla,
27th Day of June, 2017.
07-344
––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Limited Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment of Ofﬁ cers to Grade III of Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service – 2016/2017
APPLICATIONS are hereby called on the order of 
Public Service Commission for the Limited Competitive 
Examination held for recruitment of suitable of ﬁ cers to 
ﬁ ll the vacancies in the posts belonging to the categories 
of Civil, Mechanical, Electrical (Heavy) and Electrical 
(Light) Engineers of the Railway Department in Grade III 
of Sri Lanka Engineering Service at the institutions located 
all over the Island, from Engineering Assistant (Former 
Technical Assistant) of the Department of Irrigation or 
an of ﬁ cer holding a post of Supervising Manager of the 
Department of Railway or quali ﬁ ed Technical Of ﬁ cers 
belonging to Sri Lanka Technological Service and serving 
in public/ provincial public service and possessing 
qualiﬁ cations approved by the Appointing Authority. The 
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
application indicated at the end of this notiﬁ cation shall be 
sent by registered post through the Head of the Institutions 
to reach the Director of Engineering Services, Ministry of 
Public Administration and Management, Colombo 07.
The top left corner of the envelope containing the 
application shall clearly bear the words “Recruitment to 
the Posts of Sri Lanka Engineering Service (Limited) – 
2016/2017”
(a) Closing date of applications is 04.08.2017
 
Note: Complaints on applications or any relevant 
document getting lost or delayed in the post shall 
not be considered. The candidate shall bear the 
losses, which may occur due to their delay in 
sending applications until the closing date. Further, 
appearing for the interview does not necessarily 
mean that the applicant has ful ﬁ lled the requisite 
qualiﬁ cations to grant the appointment. 
The number of posts in Grade III of Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service that should be ﬁ lled through the 
recruitment of of ﬁ cers to Sri Lanka Engineering Service 
on limited basis is 58 and it shall be divided under the 
following categories.
Category Number of 
vacancies
Civil category 01 12
Civil (Irrigation) category 03 17
Civil (Non Irrigation) category 03 02
Civil category 04 01
Civil category 05 01
Civil category 06 06
Civil category 07 13
Mechanical category 01 04
Electrical category 01 01
Electrical category 03 01
1.  Method of recruitment to the service :
 1.1. Selection shall be made on the order of marks 
awarded for seniority and merit by a Board of 
Interview as per the marking scheme approved by 
Public Service Commission.
 1.2. When of ﬁ cers are recruited to Grade III of 
S.L.E.S. by a letter of appointment under Limited 
recruitment, their service categories shall be 
determined as per Schedule I of the Minute of 
Sri Lanka Engineering Service published in 
the Gazette Extra Ordinary of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1836/6 dated 
11.11.2013.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1520
 1.3.  The effective date of the appointment and the 
number of appointments shall be determined 
by the Public Service Commission. The Public 
Service Commission reserves the authority to ﬁ ll 
all the vacancies or a certain number of vacancies. 
2.  Conditions for Engagement in Service  :
 2.1. A selected candidate shall be appointed to 
Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service 
subjected to the general conditions governing 
the appointments in the public service and also 
subjected to the term and conditions set out in 
the Minute of Sri Lanka Engineering Service 
published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 
1836/6 dated 11.11.2013 and any revisions made 
or to be made hereafter to the aforesaid Minute. 
 2.2. This appointment is pensionable. Further, you 
shall contribute to the Widows and Orphans/ 
Widowers and Orphans Pension Scheme. You 
shall contribute to the same as determined by the 
government from time to time. 
 2.3. The of ﬁ cers appointed to this post shall be 
subjected to an acting period of one (01) year. 
 2.4. However, the of ﬁ cers shall pass the ﬁ rst Efﬁ ciency 
Bar examination within a period of three (03) 
years. 
 2.5. You shall prove that you have acquired the 
proﬁ ciency in of ﬁ cial language in accordance 
with the government policies before the lapse 
of ﬁ ve years from the date of this appointment. 
If you have satis ﬁ ed quali ﬁ cations for this 
post in Sinhala language, your other of ﬁ cial 
language shall be Tamil and if you have satis ﬁ ed 
qualiﬁ cations for this post in Tamil language, 
your other ofﬁ cial language shall be Sinhala. The 
provisions in the Public Administration Circular 
01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and the provisions in 
the consequent circulars shall be applicable in this 
regard. 
 2.6. This appointment shall be made subjected to 
the Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
Commission, Establishments Code of Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial 
Regulations of the government and other 
departmental orders. 
 2.7. The appointees shall be prepared to serve in any 
part of the Island in which they are called upon to 
serve.
 2.8. Appointees shall be subjected to serve in both 
public service as well as provincial public service.
3.  Salary Scale.– The salary scale (Monthly) Rs. 47,615 
– 10x 1,335 – 8x 1,630 – 17 x 2170 – 110,895/- is entitled 
to this post in accordance with the salary segment SL-1-
2016 as per Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016. 
(You are paid the salaries as per the provisions of Public 
Administration Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 as 
indicated in Schedule II of the same) 
4.  Qualiﬁ cations.– One of the following basic 
qualiﬁ cations shall have been satis ﬁ ed as at the date 
indicated in the Gazette noti ﬁ cation by which the 
qualiﬁ cations shall be satis ﬁ ed in accordance with the 
category applied for and terms and conditions mentioned 
under Section 4.2 of this noti ﬁ cation shall also have been 
satisﬁ ed.
 
 4.1.  Basic Qualiﬁ cations :
        4.1.1. Shall have served as an of ﬁ cer belonging 
to the Engineering Assistants’ Service at the 
Department of Irrigation with a service period 
of not less than 15 years out of which at least 
05 years should be in Grade I after being 
promoted to the same and have completed 
Senior Technical Examination conducted by 
the Commissioner General of Examinations. 
 4.1.2. Shall have served as an of ﬁ cer in a post of 
Supervising Manager at the Department of 
Railway with a service period of not less than 
15 years out of which at least 05 years should 
be in Grade I after being promoted to the 
same. 
 4.1.3. Shall have served as a Technical Of ﬁ cer 
in Sri Lanka Technological Service with a 
period of service of not less than 15 years 
out of which 05 years should be in Grade I 
and have completed the third examination for 
Government Technical Ofﬁ cers conducted by 
the Commissioner General of Examinations 
(1979).
 4.1.4. Shall have served as a Technical Of ﬁ cer 
in Sri Lanka Technological Service with a 
service period of not less than 21 years and 
have been promoted to Special Grade and 
have completed the second examination for 
Government Technical Ofﬁ cers conducted by 
the Commissioner General of Examinations 
(Minute of 1979).

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1521
 4.1.5  ( a)  Shall have been promoted to Grade I of 
Sri Lanka Technological Service with a 
service period of not less than 15 years 
as a Technical Ofﬁ cer in the said service
   and
   Shall have successfully completed a 
full time B. Sc. Engineering course of 
04 years at a University recognized 
by the University Grants Commission 
under a stream recognized by the said 
Commission and Institute of Engineers 
Sri Lanka  
   or
  ( b)  Shall have obtained a valid certi ﬁ cate 
by following a course and completing 
all studies and requirements in a stream 
on which recruitments are made and 
accepted as equivalent to the degree 
course mentioned in 4.1.5 (a) above by 
the University Grants Commission and 
Sri Lanka Institute of Engineers.
 4.1.6.   Shall have been promoted to the Special 
Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service 
with  a service period of not less than 21 years 
in the said service as a Technical Of ﬁ cer 
(including 05 years’ service in Grade I and 
have completed the National Technological 
Diploma examination approved by the 
University Grants Commission. 
4.2. Conditions and Orders :
 4.2.1. The of ﬁ cer shall be serving in public service/ 
provincial public service at the time of 
submitting the applications.
 4.2.2. The category of the Sri Lanka Engineering 
Service to which the of ﬁ cer belongs at the 
institution where he served at the time of 
submitting application shall be considered as 
the category for the purpose of recruiting to Sri 
Lanka Engineering Service.   
 4.2.3. No action shall have been taken to send an 
appointee on retirement from public service/ 
provincial public service as at the effective 
date of the appointment determined by the 
Public Service Commission. 
 4.2.4. A satisfactory period of service of 05 years 
shall have been completed immediately 
preceding the date mentioned in the Gazette as 
the date on which the quali ﬁ cations shall have 
been satisﬁ ed. 
 4.2.5. It is compulsory to possess a continuous service 
as an Engineering Assistant at the Department 
of Irrigation when applying for the posts in 
Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service at 
the said Department. 
 4.2.6. It is compulsory to possess a continuous service 
as an of ﬁ cer holding a post of Supervising 
Manager at the Department of Railway when 
applying for the vacancies of the posts in 
Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service at 
the Department of Railway.
5.  Physical Quali ﬁ cations.– Every candidate shall be 
physically ﬁ t in every aspect to perform the duties of the 
post and to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
6.  Other Qualiﬁ cations :
 6.1. Shall have completed a satisfactory service period 
of 05 years immediately preceding the closing 
date of the application. 
 6.2. Shall have satis ﬁ ed all the quali ﬁ cations and 
conditions for recruitment to the post in each and 
every aspect as at the closing date of applications.
7.  Marking Scheme (The total marks awarded at the interview is 100)  :
Serial No. Subject
01 Service experience (Maximum marks 60)      
 Marks shall be allocated for the eligible applicants who have the highest weighted service 
experience and marks shall be allocated for the other applicants on descending order in 
proportionate to their weighted service experience.
Marks shall be allocated for the service experience based on the service period from the date of 
satisfying the basic qualiﬁ cations up to the closing date of applications.
[weighted service experience = Active service period in Class I + (Active service period in Special 
Class x 1.25)]

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1522
Serial No. Subject
02 Technical knowledge (Maximum 20 marks)
The practical knowledge of the applicants and their knowledge on principles in the relevant ﬁ eld 
shall be veriﬁ ed through an oral test conducted by ofﬁ cers, who possess special knowledge in the 
civil, mechanical and electrical engineering ﬁ elds, appointed to the Board of Interview and 10 
marks shall be allocated each for practical knowledge and knowledge on principles and maximum 
marks shall be 20.  
03
Educational and other qualiﬁ cations (Maximum 10 marks)
Computer knowledge (Maximum 05 marks)
Maximum 05 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed a diploma 
in Information Technology of not less than 6 months from an institution recognized by the 
Government.
03 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed only a certi ﬁ cate course 
in Information Technology of not less than 3 months from an institution recognized by the 
Government.
(Marks shall be awarded strictly for a maximum of one quali ﬁ cation. If an ofﬁ cer has submitted 
02 or more certi ﬁ cates, marks shall be allocated strictly for one certi ﬁ cate which includes the 
highest qualiﬁ cation) 
Proﬁ ciency in English language (Maximum 05 marks)
Maximum 05 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed a diploma 
in English language from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or an 
institution recognized by the Government.
03 marks shall be awarded if the candidate has successfully completed only a certi ﬁ cate course 
in English language from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or an 
institution recognized by the Government.
 (Marks shall be awarded strictly for a maximum of one qualiﬁ cation.  If an ofﬁ cer has submitted 
02 or more certi ﬁ cates, marks shall be allocated strictly for one certi ﬁ cate which includes the 
highest qualiﬁ cation)
04
Service records (Maximum 05 marks)
(a) Performance (Maximum 03 marks)
Marks shall be awarded for the performance of immediately preceding 03 years.
01 mark per one year under the category “Excellent” 
0.5 marks per year under the category “Good” 
(b) Commendations (Maximum 02 marks)
01 mark for each commendation subjected to a maximum of 02 marks. (Shall be proved by Form 
General 230. Marks shall be awarded strictly for the commendations received before the date of 
satisfying the qualiﬁ cations)                                                                                            
05 Skills proved at the interview (Maximum 05 marks)
8.  Identity.– One of the following documents shall only be accepted to prove the identity. 
 • National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons
 • A valid passport

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1523
9. Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission, circulars issued from time to time in relation to public 
service and the conditions of the Service Minute relevant to Grade III of Executive Service Category and the revision 
made thereto are relevant to this post.   
10. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to decide on any matter not provided for in this notiﬁ cation. 
11. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Gazette Notiﬁ cation, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.  
       
     On the order of Public Service Commission,   
 J.J. R
ATHNASIRI,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration and Management. 
        
Ministry of Public Administration and Management,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
29th June, 2017.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT OF OFFICERS TO GRADE III OF SRI LANKA ENGINEERING SERVICE – LIMITED 2016 (2017)
 1. Full name of the of ﬁ cer :––––––––––––––.
 2. Of ﬁ cer’s name with initials :––––––––––––––.
 3. Present service station (Ministry/ Department/ Provincial Council/ Local Government Institution) :–––––––––––.
 4. Field of engineering {Civil/ Mechanical/ Electrical (Light and Heavy)}:––––––––––––––.
 5. Of ﬁ ce Address :––––––––––––––.
 6. Personal Address :––––––––––––––.
 7. Telephone Number: Fixed :––––––––––––––.    Mobile :––––––––––––––.
 8. ( a) Date of Birth :––––––––––––––.   (b) National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––––.
 9. Age as at the closing date of applications: Years  :–––––––––––.  Months  :––––––––––––.  Days :––––––––––––.
 10.  Category for which the of ﬁ cer applies :––––––––––––––.
   (One of ﬁ cer may apply strictly for one category)
 11. Date of joining the public service as an of ﬁ cer in Engineering Assistants’ Service at the Department of Irrigation/ 
ofﬁ cer in Supervisory Management Service at the Department of Railway/ Technical Of ﬁ cer in Sri Lanka 
Technological Service (Previously known as MLT Service) :––––––––––––––.
 12. Date of con ﬁ rming in the public service as an of ﬁ cer in Engineering Assistants’ Service at the Department of 
Irrigation/ ofﬁ cer in Supervisory Management Service at the Department of Railway/ Technical Of ﬁ cer in Sri 
Lanka Technological Service (Previously known as MLT Service) :––––––––––––––.
 13. Place of joining the service (Ministry/ Department/ Provincial Council/ Local Government Institution) as an 
ofﬁ cer in Engineering Assistants’ Service at the Department of Irrigation/ of ﬁ cer in Supervisory Management 
Service at the Department of Railway/ Technical Ofﬁ cer in Sri Lanka Technological Service (Previously known as 
MLT Service) :––––––––––––––.
 14. Present service :––––––––––––––.
 15. Present Class/ Grade :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1524
 16. Periods of service with the dates of appointment/ promotion/ absorption into each Class/ Grade in order (The no 
pay leave should also be included, if any) 
Name of the Service Class/ Grade Time Period *Service period
From             To Years         Months        Days
*As at the closing date of applications
The relevant documents shall be certiﬁ ed as true copies and shall be annexed to the application.  
 17. The minimum quali ﬁ cations as per Section 7.3.1.2 of the Minute of Sri Lanka Engineering Service published in 
Gazette Extraordinary of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  No. 1836/6 dated 11.11.2013 are satisﬁ ed. 
(Mark X in the relevant cage. The results sheets shall be certiﬁ ed as true copies and attached)
 (i) Shall have served as an of ﬁ cer belonging to the Engineering Assistants’ Service of the Department of 
Irrigation with a service period of not less than 15 years out of which at least 05 years shall be in Grade I 
after being promoted and have completed the Senior Technical Examination conducted by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations 
  The date of successfully completing the Senior Technical examination: ...........................
 (ii) Shall have served as an of ﬁ cer in a post of Supervising Manager at the Department of Railway with a service 
period of not less than 15 years out of which at least 05 years shall have been served in Grade I after being 
promoted to the same.
 (iii) Shall have served as a Technical Of ﬁ cer in Sri Lanka Technological Service with a service period of not 
less than 15 years out of which at least 05 years shall have been served in Grade I after being promoted to 
the same and have completed the third examination for Government Technical Of ﬁ cers conducted by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations (Minute of 1979) 
Examination (Minute of 1979) Field (Civil/ Mechanical) Date of satisfying the 
qualiﬁ cations**
1st examination
2nd examination
3rd examination
**Annex 02 or 03
 (iv) Shall have served as a Technical Of ﬁ cer in Sri Lanka Technological Service with a service period of not 
less than 21 years  and have been promoted to Special Grade of the said service and have served 05 years in 
Grade I and have completed the second examination for Government Technical Of ﬁ cers conducted by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations (Minute of 1979) 
Examination (Minute of 1979) Field (Civil/ Mechanical) Date of satisfying the 
qualiﬁ cations**
1st examination
2nd examination
** Annex 02 or 03

<!-- page 21 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1525
 (v) ( a)  Shall have been promoted to Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service with a service period of not less 
than 15 years as a Technical Ofﬁ cer in the service and successfully completed a full time B.Sc Engineering 
course of 04 years at a University recognized by the University Grants Commission under a stream 
recognized by the said Commission and Institute of Engineers Sri Lanka   
or
  ( b) v. Shall have obtained a valid certiﬁ cate by following a course and completing all studies and requirements 
in a stream on which recruitments are made and accepted as equivalent to the degree course mentioned 
in 4.1.5 (a) above by the University Grants Commission and Sri Lanka Institute of Engineers. (Certiﬁ ed 
copies of the relevant certiﬁ cates shall be attached).
 vi. Shall have been promoted to the Special Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service serving a period of not 
less than 21 years in the said service as a Technical Of ﬁ cer (including 05 years’ service in Grade I and have 
completed the National Technological Diploma examination approved by the University Grants Commission. 
(Certiﬁ ed copies of the relevant certiﬁ cates shall be attached).
18. The satisfactory period of service of the applicant :–––––––––––.
 (The copies of the other relevant documents including the performance reports of 05 years as per Appendix 05 of the 
Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission shall be attached)
 (i) If you have been subjected to any disciplinary punishment, indicate the nature of the offence, the punishment 
you were subjected to and the date of punishment :–
 (ii) Whether salary increments have been earned during the last ﬁ ve years: ……….... 
I hereby certify that the particulars provided by me in this application are trues and correct. I am aware that if 
any particulars contained are found to be false and incorrect, I am liable to disquali ﬁ cation before appointment and to 
dismissal from service without compensation if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––––. 
Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
Mr /Mrs /Miss ………………………………………………………….., of ﬁ cer in Engineering Assistants’ 
Service at the Department of Irrigation/ ofﬁ cer in Supervisory Management Service at the Department of Railway/ ofﬁ cer 
in Sri Lanka Technological Service (Previously known as MLT Service) has satisﬁ ed qualiﬁ cations to be appointed into 
a post in Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service and the application of the said of ﬁ cer is forwarded herewith for 
necessary action. Further, a disciplinary action has/ has not been commenced against him/ her and information has /has 
not been submitted at present for initiating such action in future. (Delete the words inappropriate)        
  –––––––––––––––,
 Signature and of ﬁ cial stamp 
 (Secretary/ Chief Secretary/ Head of the Department).
Date :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1526
SENIOR TECHNICAL EXAMINATION
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS SRI LANKA
Name: ..............................................................................................................................................
Practical Test
Subject 
 
Marks
Year
................
Year
................
Year
................
Year
................
First Half
Part I Leveling (Practical Test) (>50%)
Part II Surveying (Practical Test) (Practical Test) 
(>50%)
Written Test 
Subject
Marks
Year
...............
Year
..............
Year
................
Year
................
First Half
Part III (a) Structuralism (Theories of structures 
and strength of materials) 
(b) Hydraulics
Part II Surveying (Practical Test) (Practical Test) 
(>50%)
Second Half 
Part I (a) Design, drawing and standard 
speciﬁ cations
(b)  Irrigation 
Part II (a) Quantity (Quantity Surveying)
(b) Establishments Code, Financial 
Regulations and Departmental 
Provisions  
Minimum pass mark for the written test 40%
Average marks of all the written tests (>50%): ...................................
Note: A minimum of 50% marks in each subject is required to pass Part I and Part II of the ﬁ rst half. Even though, 
a subject can be passed by securing a minimum marks of 40% in respect of each subject in any other part, an 
average of not less than 50% shall be secured for all the written papers in order to pass the examination. 
Senior Technical Examination shall be completed by passing all the parts in the above manner in not more than 
04 attempts. 
I hereby certify that all the above particulars are true and accurate.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.  

<!-- page 23 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1527
EXAMINATIONS FOR TECHNICAL OFFICERS IN PUBLIC SERVICE (CIVIL/ MECHANICAL)
MINUTE OF 1979 – DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS, SRI LANKA
Name: .................................................................................................................................
1st examination (Civil)
Compulsory subjects
Subject
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Written test 
Surveying practical 
Levelling practical
Surveying and leveling (Lower paper) 03
The average marks for passing the examination :–––––––––––.
(A minimum of 35% marks shall be secured for each part of the 03 parts mentioned above when determining the passes 
in the subject of Surveying and Leveling and an average of 40% marks shall be secured for all 03 parts in order to pass 
the whole subject) 
Subject 
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Mathematics (Lower Paper) 01
Quantity Surveying (Lower Paper) 02
Design drawing and draftsmanship 04
Optional Subjects: Candidate shall pass 02 subjects out of the following
Subject 
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Construction and maintenance of buildings 05
Water supply and drainage 06
Site management 07
Construction and maintenance of roads 08
The average marks for passing the examination :–––––––––––.
(A minimum of 40% marks shall be secured for each subject to pass the whole examination and the average of 
the aggregate marks secured for all the relevant subjects shall be 45%)
I hereby certify that all the above particulars are true and accurate. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1528
2nd Test (Civil)
Compulsory Subjects 
Subject
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Written Test 
Surveying Practical
Leveling Practical
Surveying and Leveling 23
The average marks for passing the examination :––––––––––––.
(A minimum of 35% marks shall be secured for each part of the 03 parts mentioned above when determining the passes 
in the subject of Surveying and Leveling and an average of 40% marks shall be secured for all 03 parts in order to pass 
the whole subject) 
Subject Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Mathematics (Higher Paper) 21
Quantity Surveying (Higher Paper) 22
Drawing 24
Optional Subjects: Candidate shall pass 03 subjects out of the following
Subject
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Construction of buildings (Higher 
Paper)
25
Water supply and drainage 26
Construction and maintenance of roads 27
Construction and maintenance of 
bridges and major structures
28
Work organization 29
The average marks for passing the examination :––––––––––––.
(A minimum of 40% marks shall be secured for each subject to pass the whole examination and the average of 
the aggregate marks secured for all the relevant subjects shall be 45%)
I hereby certify that all the above particulars are true and accurate.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1529
3rd Test (Civil)
Compulsory Subjects 
Subject
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Year
............
Written Test 
Surveying Practical
Leveling Practical
Surveying and Leveling 48
The average marks for passing the examination :––––––––––––.
(A minimum of 35% marks shall be secured for each part of the 03 parts mentioned above when determining the passes 
in the subject of Surveying and Leveling and an average of 40% marks shall be secured for all 03 parts in order to pass 
the whole subject) 
Subject
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Civil Engineering i 41
Civil Engineering iii 44
Civil Engineering iv 45
Surveying and estimation of the 
buildings
46
Architectural drawing 47
Optional Subjects: Candidate shall pass 01 subject out of the following
Subject
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Construction and maintenance of 
buildings 
05
Water supply and drainage 06
The average marks for passing the examination :––––––––––––.
(A minimum of 40% marks shall be secured for each subject to pass the whole examination and the average of 
the aggregate marks secured for all the relevant subjects shall be 45%)
I hereby certify that all the above particulars are true and accurate.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1530
EXAMINATION  FOR  TECHNICAL  OFFICERS  IN  THE  PUBLIC  SERVICE  (CIVIL/ MECHANICAL) 
MINUTE OF 1979 -  DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS, SRI LANKA
Name: ..............................................................................................................................................
1st Test (Mechanical)
All the Subjects are compulsory
Subject
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Mathematics (Lower Paper) 01
Mechanical quantities 09
Mechanical drawing and draftsmanship 10
Workshop training 11
Practical work (Fitting, carpentry) etc. 12
Surveying and leveling (Practical) 13
The average marks for passing the examination: .......................... 
(A minimum of 40% marks shall be secured for each subject to pass the whole examination and the average of the 
aggregate marks secured for all the relevant subjects shall be 45%)
2nd Test (Mechanical)
All the Subjects are compulsory
Subject
Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Mathematics (Higher Paper) 21
Quantities Mechanical (Higher 
Paper)
30
Mechanical drawing and 
draftsmanship (Higher Paper) 
31
Workshop training 32
The average marks for passing the examination: .......................... 
(A minimum of 40% marks shall be secured for each subject to pass the whole examination and the average of the 
aggregate marks secured for all the relevant subjects shall be 45%)

<!-- page 27 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1531
3rd Test (Mechanical)
All the Subjects are compulsory
Subject Subject 
No.
Marks
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Year 
............
Mechanical Engineering I 49
Mechanical Engineering II 50
Mechanical Engineering III 51
Engineering Economics 52
Mechanical Engineering - Drawing 53
The average marks for passing the examination: .......................... 
(A minimum of 40% marks shall be secured for each subject to pass the whole examination and the average of 
the aggregate of the marks secured for all the relevant subjects shall be 45%).
I hereby certify that all the above particulars are true and accurate.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
07-374
–––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY OF INTERNAL  AFFAIRS, 
WAYAMBA DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL 
AFFAIRS
Limited Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to Grade II of the Post of 
Authorized Ofﬁ cer, Segment 2 - Field/Ofﬁ ce 
based Ofﬁ cers of the Department of Immigration 
and Emigration -2017 
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the quali ﬁ ed 
citizens of Sri Lanka for the Limited competitive 
examination for recruitment to the Post of Authorized 
Ofﬁ cer in the Department of Immigration and Emigration.
1. In this notice “Head of the Department” shall mean 
the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration. 
Recruitment to Grade II of the Post of Authorized Of ﬁ cer 
in the Department of Immigration and Emigration is made 
by this examination. The “Post” shall mean Grade II of the 
Post of Authorized Ofﬁ cer, unless otherwise speciﬁ ed.
2. The closing date for application will be Twenty-eight 
(28
th ) July 2017.
 2.1  Written Examination. - The Examination shall 
consist of the following three (03) question 
papers.
  01. Comprehension and General knowledge, 
  02. English Language, 
  03. Basic knowledge on Computer science.  
 2.2  Date of Examination. - This examination shall 
be held in Colombo on Twenty Seventh (27
th) 
August 2017. Controller General of Immigration 
and Emigration reserves the right to postpone or 
cancel this examination.
 2.3  Interview.- 
 (i) 10% of the total No. of vacancies will be 
reserved for female candidates.
 (ii) Two fold of candidates similar to the 
number of vacancies who have scored the 

<!-- page 28 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1532
highest marks on the basis indicated in 1 
above, out of those who have appeared 
for all the question papers of the written 
examination and scored at least 40% of 
marks or more for each question paper shall 
be interviewed by a Board of Interview 
appointed by the Controller General 
of Immigration and Emigration. (The 
interview shall be conducted only for the 
purpose of veriﬁ cation of qualiﬁ cations). 
 (iii)  Physical requirements indicated in No. 6.3 
will be examined at the interview. 
3. Number of persons to be appointed is Twenty one 
(21). At the instances where there are candidates, who 
have scored equal marks for the ﬁ nal vacancy or ﬁ nal few 
vacancies, above the number of vacancies, the decision 
of ﬁ lling such vacancies shall be taken by the Controller 
General of Immigration and Emigration. The effective 
date of the appointment shall also be determined by the 
Controller General of Immigration and Emigration.
4. Conditions of Service :
 4.1  A selected candidate shall be appointed to Grade 
II of the Service on the general conditions 
governing appointments in the Public Service, 
provisions of the Establishments Code and 
Financial Regulations and Procedural Rules 
of Public Service Commission published in 
the Gazette Extraordinary  No. 1589/30 of 
20.02.2009 and  on the terms and conditions set 
out in the Scheme of Recruitment of Grade II 
of the Post of Authorized Of ﬁ cer, Segment 2 - 
Field/Ofﬁ ce based Of ﬁ cers of the Department 
of Immigration and Emigration approved by the  
Public Service Commission dated 20.12.2013 
and subject to any amendments made or to be 
made hereafter to the Scheme of Recruitment.
 4.2 This post is permanent and pensionable. 
 4.3 Recruitment shall be made to Grade II of the 
Post of Authorized Of ﬁ cer is subject to one 
(1) year probation period. First Ef ﬁ ciency Bar 
Examination shall be passed within 03 years 
from the date of recruitment as mentioned in the 
Scheme of Recruitment. 
 4.4 Prescribed of ﬁ cial language proﬁ ciency shall be 
obtained within 05 years of joining the service 
as per Public Administration Circular 01/2014 
and consequent circulars.
5. Monthly Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale relevant 
to this post as per Schedule I of Public Administration 
Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs.34,605-10x660-
11x755-15x930- Rs. 63,460(MN-5/2016). Your salaries are 
paid in accordance with the provisions of the said circular as 
mentioned in Schedule II of the same. In addition, you are also 
entitled to the other allowances paid to the Public Of ﬁ cers 
by the Government from time to time.
6. Qualiﬁ cations for recruitment :
 6.1
 (i)  Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii)  Shall have an excellent moral character.
 (iii)  Shall be physically and mentally ﬁ t to 
serve in any part of the Island.
 6.2 Educational quali ﬁ cations and experience:- 
 (i) Should have passed G.C.E.(O/L) in six 
subjects with four credit passes including 
credit passes for   Mathematics, English , 
Sinhala/Tamil Language at one sitting
  And
      Should have passed at least one subject at 
G.C.E.(A/L) (other than Common General 
paper)
  And 
  Shall  be  an  of ﬁ cer  in   a  permanent  and  a  
pensionable  post  in  Public  Service  or 
  Provincial Public Service receiving a salary 
under Salary Code MN-1/2016 or above 
  MN Salary Code who has completed active 
and satisfactory period of service of Ten (10) 
years in any post as at the date on which 
qualiﬁ cations mentioned in the noti ﬁ cation 
of calling applications to be fulﬁ lled ;
  Or
 (ii) Shall  have  obtained  a  degree  from  a  
University  or  a degree  awarding  institution 
Recognized by the University Grants 
Commission,
  And
  Shall  be  an  of ﬁ cer  in   a  permanent  and  a  
pensionable  post  in  Public  Service  or 
  Provincial Public Service receiving a salary 
under Salary Code MN-1 /2016 or above 
  MN Salary Code who has completed active 
and satisfactory period of service of ﬁ ve (5) 
years in any post as at the date on which 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1533
qualiﬁ cations mentioned in the noti ﬁ cation 
of calling applications to be fulﬁ lled.
Note. – 
 (i) Effective date of the degree and dates on 
which expected passes from G.C.E. (O/L) 
and G.C.E. (A/L) have been obtained shall be 
a date on or before the last day, Twenty eight 
(28
th ) July 2017 to meet the qualiﬁ cations.
 (ii) The  total  of  continuous  periods  of service  
in  Public  Service  and/or  Provincial Public  
Service  is  considered  when  calculating  the  
above  mentioned  period  of service.
 6.3  Physical Requirements:-
 (i) A male applicant’s height should be a 
minimum of 5 feet 04 inches (162.5 cm) 
and the chest should be a minimum of 32 
inches (81.25cm)
 (ii) The height of a female applicant should be 
a minimum of 05 feet 2 inches (156cm)
 6.4  Age.– Age limit is not considered since only the 
ofﬁ cers who are serving in the Public Service at 
present can be applied for this post.
7. Examination fee.– The examination fee is Rs.600/- 
It should be paid before the closing date of applications 
at any Post Of ﬁ ce/ Sub Post Of ﬁ ce to be credited to 
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of Commissioner General 
of Examinations. Any fee will not be charged other 
than the examination fee. The receipt obtained should 
be pasted in the relevant cage of the application form. 
The fee is non-refundable and it shall not be paid back or 
transferred to pay any other examination fee, under any 
circumstances. Money Orders or stamps are not accepted 
for examination fees. (It would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt.)
8. Method of Application :
 8.1 The application should be in the form of the 
specimen  appended  to  this  noti ﬁ cation  and 
should be prepared by the candidate himself 
on paper of size 8 ½" x 12" (A-4) using both 
sides. The Application shall be prepared by the 
applicant in his own handwriting or computerized 
or typed. The application should be ﬁ lled by the 
applicant in his own handwriting. It should be 
specially noted that the application forms should 
be prepared that cages 1.0 to 2.8 appear on the 
ﬁ rst side of the paper and cages 2.9 to 5.2 appear 
on the other side of the paper. Applications that 
do not comply with the specimen and that are 
not completed in every aspect shall be rejected 
without notice. It is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form 
perfected by him/her complies with the specimen 
given in the examination notice as otherwise 
the application may be rejected. (It is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the application with 
candidate)
 8.2 The application should be in the language 
medium in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination.
 8.3 The completed application form for the 
examination should be sent by registered post to 
reach the,
  “Commissioner General of Examinations,
  Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
  Department of Examinations – Sri Lanka,
  P. O. Box 1503,
  Colombo”.
  On or before Twenty-eight (28
th) July, 2017. The 
words “Open Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Post of Authorized Ofﬁ cer 
- 2017” should be clearly indicated on the top 
left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
application. Any application received after the 
closing date shall not be accepted. It is essential 
to mention the name of examination in English 
language as well in applications prepared in both 
Sinhala and Tamil mediums.
 8.4  Designation and place of work of the applicant 
at the time of applying for the examination are 
applicable for all the purposes related to the 
examination and any changes occur after sending 
the application shall not be considered. 
 8.5 Candidate’s signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of 
a Government School, a Justice of Peace, 
Commissioner for Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, 
Notary Public, Commissioned Of ﬁ cer in the 
Three Armed Forces, an Of ﬁ cer holding a 
Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Of ﬁ cer 
holding a permanent post in Public Service whose 
annual initial salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
(Monthly salary of Rs. 41,580 as per Schedule I 
of the Public Administration Circular 6/2016).

<!-- page 30 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1534
 8.6 Any application, which is not complete in every 
aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that 
an application has been lost or delayed in post 
shall be considered.
 8.7 Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. 
Commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue Admission Cards to the applicants who have 
sent the applications which are complete in every 
respect on the presumption that only the persons 
who possess the quali ﬁ cations mentioned in the 
Gazette noti ﬁ cation have applied for this post. 
A notice shall be published in the newspapers 
by the Department of Examinations as soon as 
Admission Cards are issued to applicants. If the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 
3 days of such an advertisement steps shall be 
taken to notify the Department of Examinations 
in the manner speci ﬁ ed in the advertisement. 
When informing, the name of the examination 
applied for, full name, address and the NIC 
Number of the candidate shall be indicated, 
it would be advisable for candidates outside 
Colombo to fax a letter of request along with a 
fax number of the candidate to the Department 
of Examinations through the Fax Number 
mentioning the notiﬁ cation for sending a copy of 
the admission. Further, it would be advisable to 
keep a copy of the application, copy of the receipt 
relevant to payment of examination fee and the 
receipt of registration of the application to prove 
any information requested by the Department of 
Examinations.
9. Admission to the Examination :
9.1 Only the applicants who have been issued 
Admission Cards by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations will be permitted to 
sit the examination. Any candidate who fails 
to produce his/her Admission Card will not be 
permitted to sit the examination.
9.2 Candidates must sit the examination according 
to the index number at the examination hall 
assigned to him. Every candidate should 
get his Admission Card attested in advance 
and surrender it to the supervisor of the hall 
on the ﬁ rst day he presents himself for the 
examination. A set of rules to be observed by all 
candidates is published at the beginning in this 
Gazette. Candidates shall be bound by the rules 
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination and they are liable to a punishment 
imposed by him for breach of these rules.
Note: - The issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not mean that he or she has ful ﬁ lled the 
requisite quali ﬁ cations to sit the examination 
and to hold a post.
10. Identity of Candidates: – 
 10.1  A candidate shall be required to prove 
his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject 
he offers. 
 10.2  For this purpose, any of the following 
documents shall be accepted:
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the 
Department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– 
Application should be ﬁ lled very carefully and correct 
information should be provided. If a candidate is found to 
be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled 
at any stage prior to, during or after the examination as per 
the rules and regulations of this examination. 
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations 
shall be dealt with as determined by the Controller General 
of Immigration and Emigration.
13. Conducting of Examination :
 13.1  The Examination shall be held in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English languages.
 13.2 A candidate shall sit the examination in the 
language in which he/she passed the qualifying 
degree examination or in an ofﬁ cial language.
 13.3 A candidate who has passed subjects at the 
qualifying degree examination in two or more 
languages shall sit the examination in the 
language in which he/she passed the majority 
of subjects at such examination or in an ofﬁ cial 
language.
 13.4 A candidate with a special degree who has 
passed the principal subject in one language 
and the subsidiary subject in another language 
shall sit the examination in the language in 
which he passed the principal subject or in an 
ofﬁ cial language.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1535
Note :
 (i) The term “qualifying degree” in 13.3 above 
refers to the degree qualiﬁ cations referred to in 
paragraph 6.2(ii).
 (ii) A candidate must sit both question papers 
Comprehension and General knowledge and 
Basic knowledge on Computer Science other 
than English language   in one and the same 
language.
 (iii) A candidate shall not be permitted later 
to change the language medium of the 
examination, indicated in the application.
14. Method of 1recruitment :
 14.1  Written examination.– A written examination 
of three (03) question papers including the 
following subjects shall be held Candidates 
should sit all the question papers. Subjects and 
the minimum marks that shall be obtained for 
each subject are as follows:
No. 
of the 
Subject Subject Marks  
Minimum 
marks 
that 
shall  be 
obtained 
for a pass 
Duration 
Hours
01
Comprehension  
and General 
knowledge
100 40 2
02 English 
Language 100 40 2
03
Basic 
knowledge 
on Computer 
science
100 40 1
 14.2 General interview :
 (i) The general interview shall be conducted 
to ascertain whether the quali ﬁ cations 
(Educational quali ﬁ cations, Experience 
and Physical requirements) for  recruitment 
mentioned in No. 06 above have been 
fulﬁ lled. The general interview board is 
appointed by the Head of the Department.
 (ii) Out of the candidates who have scored 
a minimum of forty (40%) marks or 
above in each subject, those who score 
the highest marks in the aggregate for all 
the subjects will qualify to appear for the 
general interview. Candidates are called 
for the interview in order of their merit at 
the written examination and two fold of 
the applicants similar to the applicants to 
be recruited from the qualiﬁ ed candidates. 
Only quali ﬁ ed candidates are called for 
the interview at the instances where there 
are no two fold of applicants similar to the 
applicants to be recruited.        
   
N. B. - Opportunity given to a candidate 
for appearing  for the interview does not 
necessarily mean that the candidate has 
possessed quali ﬁ cations to be awarded an 
appointment.
 14.3 As per the existing vacancies, appointments 
shall be made to this post “according to merits 
beginning from candidate who has scored 
highest marks” as per the total marks obtained 
at the written examination
 14.4 The results sheet prepared according to merits 
beginning from candidates who have scored 
highest marks as per the total marks obtained 
at the written examination, as indicated in 
para. 14.1 of this Gazette noti ﬁ cation will 
be submitted to the Controller General of 
Immigration and Emigration. The results shall 
be communicated to the applicants personally 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations 
by post or by the web site www.results.exams.
gov.lk. Candidates shall be bound by the rules 
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination and issuing results and they are 
liable to a punishment imposed by him for 
breach of these rules.
15. Syllabus of the written examination :
 01. Comprehension and General knowledge            
– Duration two (02) hours. 100 marks
  Part I - Comprehension 
  Questions are designed to test candidate’s 
knowledge on analyzing the meaning, precis 
writing skills and ability to comprehend a 
paragraph. 
  Part II – General knowledge
  Questions are designed to test the candidate’s 
knowledge on the economic, social and 

<!-- page 32 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1536
political background of Sri Lanka, Global 
politics, knowledge on science and technology 
and new scienti ﬁ c inventions. This question 
paper shall consist of short and/or multiple 
choice questions.
 02. English Language - Duration two (02) hours. 
100 marks
  Questions are designed to test the 
comprehension, expressing ideas and 
communication skills of the candidate.
 03. Basic knowledge on Computer science - 
Duration one (01) hours. 100 marks
 
  Questions are designed to test the basic 
knowledge on computer, usage of software 
such as MS word, and MS Excel, knowledge 
on the usage of Internet and e-mail.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English medium noti ﬁ cations, the 
Sinhala notiﬁ cation shall prevail.
     
 M. N. R
ANASINGHE,
 Controller General of Immigration and
 Emigration,
 Department of Immigration and Emigration.
Department of Immigration and Emigration
“Suhurupaya”
Battaramulla,
03rd July, 2017. 
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For ofﬁ ce use only)
L
IMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO 
GRADE II OF THE POST OF AUTHORIZED OFFICER -2017
01. Medium : (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Language Medium of 
Examination No.
Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(Application should be completed in medium of language 
in which the candidate intends to sit the examination)
02. Personal Information :
 2.1 Name in full (In English block capitals) :  
––––––.
  (Eg. : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE   
 SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 2.2 Name with initials at the end (In English block\ 
capitals) :–––––––––.
  (Eg . :  GUNAWARDHANA H.M. S. K).
 2.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
 2.4 Permanent Address (In English block capitals) 
:–––––––––.
 2.5 Address to which admission card should be 
posted :
 (i) –––––––––––––.  
              (In English block capitals)
 (ii) –––––––––––––.
              (In Sinhala/Tamil)
 2.6 Gender : 
  Male - 0
  Female - 1
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 2.7  Race (
Indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
  I. Sinhala  - 1
  II. Tamil   - 2
  III. Indian Tamil  - 3
  IV . Muslim   - 4 
  V . Other   - 5
 2.8  National Identity Card Number : 
 2.9 Date of Birth : 
  Year  Month Date
 2.10  Age as at 28th July, 2017 which is the date of 
fulﬁ lling qualiﬁ cation:
  Years  Months  Days
 2.11  Telephone No. : 
03.     3.1 Indicate the language medium in which you 
passed the qualifying examination / Interview 
for entry to the service as at 28
th  July, 2017 
:––––––––––.
  3.2 Whether all the quali ﬁ cations mentioned in 
Para 6 of the Gazette Noti ﬁ cation have been 
fulﬁ lled :––––––––––.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1537
  3.3 State whether you become quali ﬁ ed under Para 
6.2 (I) or 6.2 (II)  :––––––––––.
04.  Educational qualiﬁ cations :
  4.1 Degree  Quali ﬁ cation :
 (i) Date of graduation :––––––––––.
 (ii) University/Institute  :––––––––––. 
 (iii) Registration Number  :––––––––––.
 (iv) Internal/External  :––––––––––. 
 (v) Degree  :––––––––––.
 (vi) Subjects/ Subject ﬁ eld :––––––––––.
 (vii) Index No.  :––––––––––.
 (viii) Language medium of Examination  :––––.
  4.2 G.C.E.(A/L) examination :
 (i) Year in which the applicant passed the 
Examination  :––––––––––.
 (ii) Index No.  :––––––––––.
 (iii) Language medium of Examination :–––––.
 (iv) Passes: 
     1…………….   2. …………..
     3…………….   4. …………..
   
  4.3 G.C.E.(O/L) Examination :
 (i) Year in which the applicant passed the 
Examination  :––––––––––.
 (ii) Index No.  :––––––––––.
 (iii) Language medium of Examination :–––––.
 (iv) Passes: 
     1…………….  2.  …………..
     3……………. 4.  …………..
     5…………….  6. …………..
     7…………….  8.  …………..
     9…………….  10.  …………..
05. Physical Requirements :
  5.1 Height :
   ………… feet ……..Inches or …… cm
  5.2.  Circumference of chest ………………cm  
(Not applicable for female applicants.)
   ………… feet ……..Inches or ………….cm
06.  Experience :-
  6.1  Present Post :––––––––––.
  6.2  Grade :––––––––––.
  6.3  Date of appointment to the post :––––––––––.
  6.4  Date of con ﬁ rmation in the said post :–––––––.
  6.5  Salary Code and Salary Scale :––––––––––.
  6.6  Whether the said post belongs to Public Service 
or Provincial Public Service :––––––––––.
  6.7  If several services are applicable for you to be 
qualiﬁ ed for applying for this post, particulars 
of said periods of (active and satisfactory) 
service shall be mentioned in the following 
table :––––––––––.
 Service/Designation  Salary   Date of
 and Grade  Code   Appointment
 (i) ........................ ....................... .....................
 (ii) ........................ ....................... .....................
 (iii) ........................ ....................... .....................
 (iv) ........................ ....................... .....................
  6.8  Total period of active and satisfactory service 
as at 28
th July, 2017, in an approved post/
posts mentioned in Para 6.2 of the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation :…………………… 
07. Payment of examination fees :
  (i) Post Of ﬁ ce / Sub Post Ofﬁ ce :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Amount paid :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Date on which the amount paid :––––––––––.
  (iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.   
Paste one edge of the receipt here securely
(It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8. Certiﬁ cate of the Candidate : 
I declare  that  I have ful ﬁ lled all the quali ﬁ cations 
that should be ful ﬁ lled as at the closing date of calling 
applications as per para. 6 of the Gazette  Notiﬁ cation   and  
I  have  not  been  subject  to  any  form  of  disciplinary 
punishment (Excluding warning) . Further I declare that I 
shall be bound by the decisions taken by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting and issuing results 
of this examination.
 I  declare  that  I  am  eligible  to  sit  this  Limited  
Competitive  Examination  as  per  all  rules  and regulations 
mentioned in the Gazette, and that to the  best  of  my  
knowledge,  the information given in this is true. I also 
agree to be bound  by  the  rules  and  regulations  of  this 
examination and any decision that may be  taken to  cancel 
my candidature prior or during or after the examination 
if it is found  that  I  am  ineligible  according  to  the  
minute  of  this examination. Further, I declare that I shall 
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the 

<!-- page 34 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1538
Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting of 
this examination.
 ––––––––––––,
          Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
09.  Certiﬁ cate of the Head of the Department (Referring to 
the personal ﬁ le) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................…  
(Full name)who is submitting this application is serving 
in a post  of  .............................  in  Ministry/  Department  
of ………… ............  under  the Central Government/ 
Provincial Council of ................................, and possessed  
active  and  satisfactory  service  period of….( ﬁ ve/ten) 
years, as per Para 6 of the Gazette noti ﬁ cation, has not 
been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (Except 
warnings)  during  the  said  period and he/she is eligible to 
sit for this examination as per regulations stipulated in the 
relevant Gazette Notiﬁ cation, he/she has paid the prescribed 
examination fees and afﬁ xed the receipt herein, and signed 
this application in my presence on ……………….. 2017.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(To be certiﬁ ed by placing the Ofﬁ cial Stamp)
07–458/2
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY OF INTERNAL AFFAIRS, 
WAYAMBA DEVELOPMENT AND CULTURAL 
AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade II of the Post of Authorized Ofﬁ cer, 
Segment 2 - Field/Ofﬁ ce based Ofﬁ cers 
of the Department of Immigration and                  
Emigration -2017 
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the quali ﬁ ed 
citizens of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination 
for recruitment to the posts of Authorized Of ﬁ cer in the 
Department of Immigration and Emigration.
1. In this notice “Head of the Department” shall mean 
the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration. 
Recruitment to Grade II of the Post of Authorized Of ﬁ cer 
in the Department of Immigration and Emigration is made 
by this examination. The “Post” shall mean Grade II of the 
Post of Authorized Ofﬁ cer, unless otherwise speciﬁ ed.
2. The closing date for application will be twenty eight 
(28
th) July 2017.
 2.1  Written Examination. - The Examination shall 
consist of the following three (03) question 
papers.
  01. Aptitude test and General knowledge 
  02. English Language 
  03. Basic knowledge on Computer science  
 2.2  Date of Examination. - This examination shall 
be held in Colombo on Twenty seventh (27
th) 
August 2017. Controller General of Immigration 
and Emigration reserves the right to postpone or 
cancel this examination.
 2.3  Interview.- 
 (i) 10% of the total No. of vacancies will be 
reserved for female candidates.
 (ii) Two fold of candidates similar to the 
number of vacancies who have scored the 
highest marks on the basis indicated in 1 
above, out of those who have appeared 
for all the question papers of the written 
examination and scored at least 40% of 
marks or more for each question paper shall 
be interviewed by a Board of Interview 
appointed by the Controller General 
of Immigration and Emigration. (The 
interview shall be conducted only for the 
purpose of veriﬁ cation of qualiﬁ cations) 
 (iii)  Physical requirements indicated in No. 6.3 
will be examined at the interview. 
03.Number of persons to be appointed is Thirty two 
(32.) At the instances where there are candidates, who 
have scored equal marks for the ﬁ nal vacancy or ﬁ nal few 
vacancies, above the number of vacancies, the decision 
of ﬁ lling such vacancies shall be taken by the Controller 
General of Immigration and Emigration. The effective 
date of the appointment shall also be determined by the 
Controller General of Immigration and Emigration.

<!-- page 35 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1539
04.  Conditions of Service :
   4.1  A selected candidate shall be appointed to 
Grade II of the Service on the general conditions 
governing appointments in the Public Service, 
provisions of the Establishments Code and 
Financial Regulations and Procedural Rules of 
Public Service Commission published in the 
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 of 20.02.2009 
and  on the terms and conditions set out in the 
Scheme of Recruitment of Grade II of the Post 
of Authorized Ofﬁ cer, segment 2 - Field/Ofﬁ ce 
based ofﬁ cers of the Department of Immigration 
and Emigration approved by the Public Service 
Commission dated 20.12.2013 and subject to 
any amendments made or to be made hereafter 
to the Scheme of Recruitment.
 4.2  This post is permanent and pensionable. 
However, appointees shall be subjected to 
the policy decisions that will be made by the 
government in future with regard to the pension 
scheme entitled to them.
 4.3 Recruitment shall be made to Grade II of 
the Post of Authorized Of ﬁ cer is subject to                    
3 years probation period. First Ef ﬁ ciency Bar 
Examination shall be passed within 03 years 
from the date of recruitment as mentioned in 
the Scheme of Recruitment. 
 4.4  Prescribed of ﬁ cial language pro ﬁ ciency shall 
be obtained within 05 years of joining the 
service as per Public Administration Circular 
01/2014 and consequent circulars.
05. Monthly Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale relevant 
to this post as per Schedule I of Public Administration 
Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs.34,605-
10x660-11x755-15x930- Rs. 63,460(MN- 5/2016). Your 
salaries are paid in accordance with the provisions of the 
said circular as mentioned in Schedule II of the same. In 
addition, you are also entitled to the other allowances paid 
to the public ofﬁ cers by the government from time to time.
06. Qualiﬁ cations for recruitment :-
 
6.1  (i)  Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) Shall have an excellent moral character,
  (iii) Shall be physically and mentally ﬁ t to 
serve in any part of the Island.
6.2 Educational qualiﬁ cations :- 
 (i) Shall have possessed a degree from a 
University recognized by the University 
Grants Commission or from an institution 
recognized by the University Grants 
Commission as an institution for awarding 
degrees.   
  and
 (ii) Shall have obtained a credit pass for 
English Language at the G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination.
Note. - Effective date of the degree and date 
on which credit pass for English Language 
at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination has 
been obtained shall be a date on or before 
the last day, twenty eight (28
th ) July 2017 
to meet the qualiﬁ cations.
6.3  Physical Requirements:-
 (i) A male applicant’s height should be a 
minimum of 5 feet 04 inches (162.5 cm) 
and circumference of the chest should be 
a minimum of 32 inches (81.25cm)
   
    (ii) The height of a female applicant should 
be a minimum of 05 feet 2 inches (156cm)
6.4 Age.– Shall not be less than twenty one (21) 
years and not more than thirty ﬁ ve (35) years 
of age as at the closing date of applications. 
Accordingly, only the persons whose date of 
birth is on or before 28.07.1996 and on or after 
28.07.1982 shall be quali ﬁ ed to apply for this 
post. 
7. Examination fee.– The examination fee is Rs.600/-. 
It should be paid before the closing date of applications 
at any Post Of ﬁ ce/ Sub Post Of ﬁ ce to be credited to 
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of Commissioner General 
of Examinations. Any fee will not be charged other than 
examination fee. The receipt obtained should be pasted in 
the relevant cage of the application form. The fee is non-
refundable and it shall not be paid back or transferred to 
pay any other examination fee, under any circumstances. 
Money Orders or stamps are not accepted for examination 
fees. (It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt.)

<!-- page 36 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1540
8. Method of Application :
 8.1 The application should be in the form of the 
specimen  appended  to  this  notiﬁ cation  and 
should be prepared by the candidate himself 
on paper of size 8 ½" x 12" (A-4) using both 
sides. The Application shall be prepared 
by the applicant in his own handwriting 
or computerized or typed. The application 
should be ﬁ lled by the applicant in his own 
handwriting.  It should be specially noted 
that the application forms should be prepared 
that cages 1.0 to 2.8 appear on the ﬁ rst side 
of the paper and cages 2.9 to 7.0 appear on 
the other side of the paper. Applications that 
do not comply with the specimen and that are 
not completed in every aspect shall be rejected 
without notice. It is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/her complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice as 
otherwise the application may be rejected. 
(It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
application with candidate)
 8.2 The application should be in the language 
medium in which the candidate intends to sit 
the examination.
 8.3 The completed application form for the 
examination should be sent by registered post 
to reach the,
  “Commissioner General of Examinations,
  Organization and Foreign Examination 
Branch,
  Department of Examinations – Sri Lanka,
  P. O. Box 1503,
  Colombo”
  On or before 28
th  July 2017. The words “Open 
Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Authorized Of ﬁ cer - 2017” 
should be clearly indicated on the top                    
left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
application. Any application received after 
the closing date shall not be accepted. It is 
essential to mention the name of examination 
in English language as well in applications 
prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil mediums.
 8.4 Candidate’s signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of 
a Government School, a Justice of Peace, 
Commissioner for Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, 
Notary Public, Commissioned Of ﬁ cer in 
the Three Armed Forces, an Of ﬁ cer holding 
a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an 
Ofﬁ cer holding a permanent post in Public 
Service whose annual initial salary is more than 
Rs. 240,360.(Monthly salary of Rs. 41,580 as 
per Schedule I of the Public Administration 
Circular 6/2016).
 8.5 Any application, which is not complete in 
every aspect, is liable to be rejected. No 
complaint that an application has been lost or 
delayed in post shall be considered.
 8.6 Receipt of applications shall not be 
acknowledged. Commissioner General of 
Examinations will issue Admission cards to 
the applicants who have sent the applications 
which are complete in every respect on 
the presumption that only the persons who 
possess the quali ﬁ cations mentioned in the 
Gazette notiﬁ cation have applied for this post. 
A notice shall be published in the newspapers 
by the Department of Examinations as soon as 
admission cards are issued to applicants. If the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 
3 days of such an advertisement steps shall be 
taken to notify the Department of Examinations 
in the manner speci ﬁ ed in the advertisement. 
When informing, the name of the examination 
applied for, full name, address and the National 
Identity Card Number of the candidate shall be 
indicated, it would be advisable for candidates 
outside Colombo to fax a letter of request 
along with a Fax Number of the candidate 
to the Department of Examinations through 
the Fax Number mentioning the noti ﬁ cation 
for sending a copy of the admission. Further, 
it would be advisable to keep a copy of the 
application, copy of the receipt relevant to 
payment of examination fee and the receipt 
of registration of the application to prove any 
information requested by the Department of 
Examinations.
9. Admission to the Examination:
 9.1 Only the applicants who have been issued 
Admission cards by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations will be permitted to sit the 
examination. Any candidate who fails to produce 
his/her admission card will not be permitted to 
sit the examination.
 9.2 Candidates must sit the examination according 
to the Index Number at the examination hall 

<!-- page 37 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1541
assigned to  him. Every candidate should 
get his admission card attested in advance 
and surrender it to the supervisor of the hall 
on the ﬁ rst day he presents himself for the 
examination. A set of rules to be observed by all 
candidates is published at the beginning in this 
Gazette. Candidates shall be bound by the rules 
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination and they are liable to a punishment 
imposed by him for breach of these rules.
Note:- The issuance of an admission card to a 
candidate does not mean that he or she has 
fulﬁ lled the requisite qualiﬁ cations to sit the 
examination and to hold a post.
10. Identity of Candidates:-
 10.1   A candidate shall be required to prove 
his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject 
he offers. 
 10.2   For this purpose, any of the following 
documents shall be accepted:
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the 
Department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– 
Application should be ﬁ lled very carefully and correct 
information should be provided. If a candidate is found to 
be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be canceled at 
any stage prior to, during or after the examination as per 
the rules and regulations of this examination. 
12.  Any matter not provided for in these regulations 
shall be dealt with as determined by the Controller General 
of Immigration and Emigration.
13.  Conducting of Examination :
 13.1 The Examination shall be held in Sinhala, 
Tamil and English languages.
 13.2   A candidate shall sit the examination in the 
language in which he/she passed the qualifying 
degree examination or in an ofﬁ cial language.
 13.3 A candidate who has passed subjects at the 
qualifying degree examination in two or more 
languages, shall sit the examination in the 
language in which he/she passed the majority 
of subjects at such examination or in an 
ofﬁ cial language.
 13.4  A candidate with a special degree who has 
passed the principal subject in one language 
and the subsidiary subject in another language 
shall sit the examination in the language in 
which he passed the principal subject or in an 
ofﬁ cial language.
Note :
  (i) The term “qualifying degree” in 13.2 
and 13.3 above refers to the degree 
qualiﬁ cations referred to in paragraph 
6.2(i).
 (ii) A candidate must sit both question papers 
Aptitude Test and General knowledge 
and Basic knowledge on computer 
science other than English language   in 
one and the same language.
 (iii) A candidate shall not be permitted later 
to change the language medium of the 
examination, indicated in the application.
14. Method of recruitment :
 14.1  Written examination:-  
  A written examination of three (03) question 
papers including the following subjects shall 
be held. Candidates should sit all the question 
papers. Subjects and the minimum marks 
that shall be obtained for each subject are as 
follows:
No. 
of the 
Subject Subject Marks  
Minimum 
marks that 
shall  be 
obtained 
for a pass 
Duration 
Hours
01
Aptitude test  
and General 
knowledge 100 40 2
02 English 
Language 100 40 2
03
Basic 
knowledge 
on Computer 
science
100 40 1

<!-- page 38 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1542
 14.2  General interview :
 (i) The general interview shall be conducted 
to ascertain whether the quali ﬁ cations 
(Educational quali ﬁ cations and Physical 
Requirements) for recruitment mentioned 
in No. 06 above have been ful ﬁ lled. The 
general interview board is appointed by 
the Head of the Department.
 (ii) Out of the candidates who have scored 
a minimum of forty (40%) marks or 
above in each subject, those who score 
the highest marks in the aggregate for all 
the subjects will qualify to appear for the 
general interview. Candidates are called 
for the interview in order of their merit at 
the written examination and two fold of 
the applicants similar to the applicants to 
be recruited from the qualiﬁ ed candidates. 
Only quali ﬁ ed candidates are called for 
the interview at the instances where there 
are no two folds of applicants similar to 
the applicants to be recruited. 
          
N. B:- Opportunity given to a candidate 
for appearing  for the interview does not 
necessarily mean that the candidate has 
possessed quali ﬁ cations to be awarded an 
appointment.
 14.3 As per the existing vacancies, appointments 
shall be made to this post “according to 
merits beginning from candidate who has 
scored highest marks” as per the total marks 
obtained at the written examination
 14.4 The results sheet prepared according to merits 
beginning from candidates who have scored 
highest marks as per the total marks obtained 
at the written examination, as indicated in 
para. 14.1 of this Gazette noti ﬁ cation will 
be submitted to the Controller General of 
Immigration and Emigration. The results 
shall be communicated to the applicants 
personally by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations by post or by the web site www.
results.exams.gov.lk. Candidates shall be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations 
on conducting the examination and issuing 
results and they are liable to a punishment 
imposed by him for breach of these rules.
15. Syllabus of the written examination :
01. Aptitude test and General Knowledge – Duration 
two (02) hours. 100 marks
 Part I - Aptitude test
 Questions are designed to test logical reasoning 
skills, Mathematical skills, comprehension and 
ability to taking decisions.
 Part II – General Knowledge
 Questions are designed to test the candidate’s 
knowledge on the economic, social and political 
background of Sri Lanka, Global politics, 
knowledge on science and technology and new 
scientiﬁ c inventions. This question paper shall 
consist of short and/or multiple choice questions.
02. English Language - Duration two (02) hours. 
100 marks
 Questions are designed to test the comprehension, 
expressing ideas and Communication skills of 
the candidate.
03. Basic knowledge on Computer science - 
Duration one (01) hour. 100 marks
 
 Questions are designed to test the basic 
knowledge on computer, Usage of software such 
as MS word, and MS Excel, knowledge on the 
usage of Internet and e-mail.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English medium noti ﬁ cations, the 
Sinhala notiﬁ cation shall prevail.
     
 M. N. R
ANASINGHE,
 Controller General of Immigration and
 Emigration,
 Department of Immigration and Emigration.
Department of Immigration and Emigration
“Suhurupaya”
Battaramulla,
03rd July, 2017.

<!-- page 39 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1543
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For ofﬁ ce use only)
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO 
GRADE II OF THE POST OF AUTHORIZED OFFICER -2017
01. Medium : (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Language Medium of 
Examination No.
Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(Application should be completed in medium of language 
in which the candidate intends to sit the examination)
02. Personal Information :
 2.1 Name in full (In English block capitals) :  
––––––.
  (Eg. : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE   
 SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 2.2 Name with initials at the end (In English block\ 
capitals) :–––––––––.
  (Eg . :  GUNAWARDHANA H.M. S. K).
 2.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
 2.4 Permanent Address (In English block capitals) 
:–––––––––.
 2.5 Address to which admission card should be 
posted :
 (i) –––––––––––––.  
              (In English block capitals)
 (ii) –––––––––––––.
              (In Sinhala/Tamil)
 2.6 Gender : 
  Male - 0
  Female - 1
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 2.7  Race (
Indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
  (i) Sinhala  - 1
  (ii) Tamil   - 2
  (iii) Indian Tamil  - 3
  (iv) Muslim   - 4 
  (v) Other   - 5
 2.8  National Identity Card Number : 
 2.9 Date of Birth : 
  Year  Month Date
 2.10  Age as at 28 th July 2017 which is the date of 
fulﬁ lling qualiﬁ cation:
  Years  Months  Days
 2.11  Telephone No. : 
03.  Educational qualiﬁ cations :
  3.1  
 (i) Date of graduation :––––––––––.
 (ii) University/Institute  :––––––––––. 
 (iii) Registration Number  :––––––––––.
 (iv) Internal/External  :––––––––––. 
 (v) Degree  :––––––––––.
 (vi) Subjects/ Subject ﬁ eld :––––––––––.
 (vii) Index No.  :––––––––––.
 (viii) Language medium of Examination  :––––.
  3.2 G.C.E.(O/L) examination :
 (i) Year in which the applicant passed the 
examination  :––––––––––.
 (ii) Index No.  :––––––––––.
 (iii) Language medium of Examination :–––––.
 (iv) Pass obtai ned for English Language :–––––.
04. Physical Requirements :
  4.1 Height :
   ………… feet ……..Inches or …… cm
  4.2.  Circumference of chest ………………cm (Not 
applicable for female applicants.)
   ………… feet ……..Inches or ………….cm
05.  
 5.1  Have you been found guilty by court of Law? 
……… …..(yes/No) :–––––––––––.
 5.2 If so, give details :–––––––––––.
06. 
 6.1 Are you holding a post in the Public Service 
……………  (Yes/No)  :–––––––––––.
 6.2  If so, give details  :–––––––––––.
7.0  Have you been dismissed from the Public Service /
Have you removed from the Public Service  :–––––––.

<!-- page 40 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1544
08.  Payment of examination fees :
  (i) Post Of ﬁ ce / Sub Post Ofﬁ ce :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Amount paid :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Date on which the amount paid :––––––––––.
  (iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.   
Paste one edge of the receipt here securely
(It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
09. Certiﬁ cate of the candidate:
I declare that all the information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief. I also agree to be 
bound by the rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, 
during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination. Further, 
I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting of 
the examination.
 ––––––––––––––,
          Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
10. Attestation of the applicant’s signature (Para 8.4 of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation):
I hereby certify that ………………………………… (Full name) who submits this application is known to me 
personally, that he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and afﬁ xed the relevant receipt herein. He/She placed his/
her signature in my presence on …………….2017.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Of ﬁ cer attesting the Signature.
Date  :––––––––––––.
Name  :––––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(To be certiﬁ ed by placing the Ofﬁ cial Stamp)
07–458/1
––––––––––––––––
Amendment Notice
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATIONS FOR 
OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF CLASS 1, 
GRADE II OF CLASS 1 AND GRADE I OF 
CLASS 1 OF SRI LANKA INFORMATION 
AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY 
SERVICE - 2017
NOTICE No. 06-169 of the above Ef ﬁ ciency Bar 
Examinations published in the Gazette No. 2024 dated 
16.06.2017 are revised in the following manner :
 (i) The closing dated of applications indicated in 5.0 
of the examination noti ﬁ cation shall be extended 
up to 12.00 p. m. (mid night) of 10th July 2017. 
 (ii) The days on which the examination is held shall 
not be changed due to these revisions and the 
other provisions stipulated in the examination 
notiﬁ cation shall remain unchanged. 
 J. J. R
ATHNASIRI, 
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration and 
 Management. 
03rd July, 2017.
07–518

<!-- page 41 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1545
AMENDMENT NOTICE
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF CLASS 3, GRADE II OF 
CLASS 3, GRADE I OF CLASS 3, GRADE II OF CLASS 2 AND GRADE I OF CLASS 2 OF 
SRI LANKA INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICE - 2017
NOTICE No. 06-170 of the above Efﬁ ciency Bar Examinations published in the Gazette No. 2024 dated 16.06.2017 are 
revised in the following manner :
 (i) The closing dated of applications indicated in 5.0 of the examination noti ﬁ cation shall be extended up to                       
12.00 p. m. (mid night) of 10th July 2017. 
 (ii) The days on which the examination is held shall not be changed due to these revisions and the other provisions 
stipulated in the examination notiﬁ cation shall remain unchanged. 
 K. V . P. M. J. GAMAGE,
 Director General of Combined Services. 
03rd July, 2017.
07–517

<!-- page 42 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1546
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 “GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA” 
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
 2.  All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payment s to the 
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The of ﬁ ce hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. 
Post Ofﬁ ce - Borella will be the paying ofﬁ ce for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
Court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 One inch or less  
... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 Two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  The “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the ﬁ rst week of every month.
13.  All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                 ...             ...   4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) 
... ..  405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ...  860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ...  260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              
... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ...  5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ...  15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ...  ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                
... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 43 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.07.2017
1547
IMPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date speciﬁ ed for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times speci ﬁ ed below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufﬁ cient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
T
HE SCHEDULE
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2017
 JULY  07.07.2017 Friday — 23.06.2017 Friday 12 noon
  14.07.2017 Friday –– 30.06.2017 Friday 12 noon
  21.07.2017 Friday –– 07.07.2017 Friday 12 noon
  28.07.2017 Friday –– 14.07.2017 Friday 12 noon
 AUGUST  04.08.2017 Friday — 21.07.2017 Friday 12 noon
  11.08.2017 Friday –– 28.07.2017 Friday 12 noon
  18.08.2017 Friday –– 04.08.2017 Friday 12 noon
  25.08.2017 Friday –– 11.08.2017 Friday 12 noon
  31.08.2017 Thursday –– 18.08.2017 Friday 12 noon
 SEPTEMBER  08.09.2017 Friday — 25.08.2017 Friday 12 noon
  15.09.2017 Friday –– 31.08.2017 Thursday 12 noon
  22.09.2017 Friday –– 08.09.2017 Friday 12 noon
  29.09.2017 Friday –– 15.09.2017 Friday 12 noon
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,  
01st January, 2017.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.