

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2245
2245
wxl 1"887 - 2014 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'10'31
No. 1,887 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2248
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2256
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st November, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
November, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—  Appropriation Bill for the Financial Year - 2015 was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 19, 2014.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2246
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2247
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2248
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KEGALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 01st Dec ember,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
15th October, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kegalle W arakapola Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Beligal Koralaya Division General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths for Otharapattuwa Kegalle.
Division
10–1115
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2249
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 01st Dec ember,
2014.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
14th October, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Ipalogama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Kalagam Palatha Division General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths of Kalagam Anuradhapura.
Korale North Division
10–1117
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MONARAGALA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 01st Dec ember,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2250
SCHEDULE A
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Monaragala Medagama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Medagama Division General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths of Nannapurawa Monaragala.
Division
10–1118
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 01st Dec ember,
2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
15th October, 2014.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Maradana Area of Kalutara and General, District Secretariat,
Panadura Totamuna Division Kalutara.
10–1116
––––––––––––––––––––
ANNEXURE (01)
FOLLOWING revisions are made to section 1.2.1 of the Gazette notification No. 1,880 published under the heading "Recruitment of
Western Music Teachers for Western Music Teacher Vacancies Government Schools in the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service - 2014" and dated
12.09.2014.
1.2.1 Possessing a degree on Western Music obtained from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Accordingly, the closing date for calling applications will be extended up to 15.11.2014.
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
10–1180

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2251
MINISTRY  OF  LABOUR  AND  LABOUR  RELATIONS
The Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Post of Stenographer (Grade III) - 2014
APPLICATIONS are called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka
for filling up the vacancy of a position of English Medium
Stenographer Class III in the Ministry of Labour and Labour
Relations.
02. The qualified applicants, selected according to the results of
written and professional examination conducted by the National
Institute of Labour Studies which is coming under purview of
Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations, will be recruited according
to completency order.
03. The Salary Scale .– MN-1-2006(A) Rs. 13,120 -10x145 -
11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320 - Rs. 22,040 according to Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006(IV). Efficiency Bar Examination
before 4th salary step.
04. Terms of Service :
4.1 This position is permanent, pensionable and should
contribute to Widowers'/Orphans' Pension Fund. This
post is subjected to three years (03) of probation period.
4.2 The language proficiency of other official language/
languages, other than the language in which engaged in to
the service, shall be fulfilled during 5 years after engaging
in to service in term of Public Admiistration Circular No.
7/2007 and dated on 28.05.2007.
4.3 You should work for the Ministry of Labour and Labour
Relations, 2nd Floor, Labour Secretariat, Colombo 05.
05. Qualifications :
5.1 The applicants should be citizen of Sri Lanka.
5.2 The age as of closing date of applications should be
reached to 18 years and not exceed to 30.
5.3 Should possess good character.
5.4 Each candidate should physically and mentally fit and
capable of accomplish official duties and serve any part
of island.
5.5 Education Qualification :
(i) Passing of G . C. E. (O/L) with six (06) subjects at
one sitting with the two (02) credits in any other
subjects and first language (Sinhalese/English/Tamil)
and Mathematics ; and
(ii) Passing of G . C. E. (A/L) at least with one subject
(except for General Test).
5.6 Professional Qualifications.– Obtaining the Certificate
on Stenographer and Type Writing (6 Months)
conducted in an institution approved by Tertiary
V ocational Education Commission or possession of
Credit (C) pass for Stenographer and Type Writing
subject at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
Note.– Following shows the Institutions for Stenographer
and Computer Type Writing approved by Tertiary
V ocational Education Commission :
* Industrial Colleges and Technical Colleges belong
to Department of Technical and Education Training.
* The training Centers belong to NAITA.
* The Training Centers belong to National Youth
Services Council.
* The Training Centers belong to Sri Lanka V ocational
Training Authority.
5.7 Experiences.– Six months (06) of experiences related to
position should be possessed.
06. Procedure of Examination .– The Open Competitive
Examination for the recruitment consists of written examination and
professional test. At the first, the written examination will be
conducted and the professional test will be called the applicants who
obtained the marks above 40% of that question paper.
Written Examination :
Question paper Marks Time
General Knoweldge and Essay (English) 100 02 hour
Professional Test.–
Stenography and Computer Type Wirtting 100
(English) (Practical)
I General Knoweldge and essay (English) :
Test the knowledge on contemporary events in the field local
and international, writing of essay under selected topic
out of the given topics of contemporarily importance.
(Presentation of specific ideas, language skills, accuracy of
grammar and the manner of writing will be considered.).
II Stenography and Computer Type Writing (Practical
English) :
Stenography of a paragraph reading continuously during five
(5) minutes at the speed of 80 words per minute and
writing said stenography notes at the speed of 07 words
per minute.
07. Recruitment Procedure .– The applicants should obtain at
least 40% of marks in each subject to eligible an appointment due to
this is a competitive examination. The available vacancies are filled
according to the order of obtained total marks as per filling no. of
existing vacancies reserved for competitive examination. (Fulfillment
of all the qualifications mentioned on this notice is compulsory).

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2252
08. Examination fees.– The examination fees is Rs. 350. The
receipt, issued by crediting said examination fees to “A/C
No. 0071451995 of BOC at Nugegoda Branch” which held by the
name of National Institute of Labour Studies, should be stick to
application form. The examination fee is non-refundable. Possesses
a photocopy of receipt would be useful.
09. Preparation of application form :
9.1 Using both sides of A4 size paper according to specimen
form in this notice.
(a) The pages should be prepared as the paragraphs
No. 01 to 03 in the first page and rest of parts in
other pages and the relevant information should be
furnished with self hand written.
(b) All the applications, in which non-comply with
relevant specimen format, non-payment of
examination fees as at due date of payment and
non-filled duly and incomplete, will be rejected
without prior notice. The applicants should incur
the non-duly filling of application forms.
Possession of a photocopy of application form in
useful and the applicants should find out whether
the filled application form is complied with the
specimen application form of notice. Otherwise,
the application may be rejected.
9.2 This examination will be conducted on November, 2014
at Colombo.
9.3 Director General of NILS allows sitting for competitive
examination under the prior conclusion that all the
applicants submitted the application forms which have
completed the relevant qualifications on the date or
before the paid relevant examination fees and the
application prepared according to the said notice
mentioning qualified according to notice. Issuing of an
admission for sitting examination is not considered as a
pre-requisite qualification for this position. The
candidate will be invalidated if any particular contained
herein is found to be inaccurate and false according to
the terms of Gazette Notification.
9.4 The application.– Duly filled applications should be
sent to "Director General, National Institute of Labour
Studies, No. 267, Pannipitiya Road, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla" by registered post on or before
21.11.2014. The open competitive examination for the
recruitment to the post of "Stenographer in the
Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations - 2014"
should be noted on the left side upper end corner of the
envelope containing the application. No responsibility
will be undertaken for late applications and applications
lost in the post.
9.5 The signature of applicant should be attested by Head
of School, Peace of Justice, a Commissioner of Oath, a
Public Notary, a Commissioned Officer of the Army,
Navy or Air Force, an officers in the Police Service
who hold a Gazette position, or a permanent
Government or Local Government Officer in receipt of
an annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or over.
Penalty for providing of false information .– The accurate
information should be provided when the application form is filled.
The candidature will be invalidated before or meanwhile or after the
examination or whenever if any applicant is found disqualified in
term of rules and regulation of this examination. He/She is liable to
dismiss from the public service that if any particular contained herein
is found to be inaccurate and false after the appointment.
10. Sitting for examination.– Director General of National Institute
of Labour Studies will issue the admission as per the applicant
receives it one week earlier to examination date. Applicants are not
allowed sit for the examination without such admission form. All the
applicants sitting for examination should produce the admission
form which certified their signature to invigilator.
National Institute of Labour Studies will publish a paper notice
immediately admission forms are issued to applicants. National
Institute of Labour Studies should be informed if you didn't receive
the admission form during 02 or 03 days after releasing the paper
notice. It is important to refer your inquiry along with the certified
photocopies of receipt paid for application and registered receipt
National Institute of Labour Studies.
11. The invigilator should be produced at least one of the following
documents for verification of applicant's identity :
(1) National Identity Card issued by Department of
registration of persons.
(2) The valid passport.
12. All the candidates are subjected to rules and regulations
imposed by Director General of National Institute of Labour Studies
in respect of holding the examination. He/She is liable to any penalty
imposed by Director General of National Institute of Labour Studies
if the rules and regulations are violated.
13. The final decision on holding of this examination, granting of
appointments and any other matters are vested in Secretary to
Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations.
Note.– If any contradiction is found in the notices published
by Sinhala, Tamil and English medium of this Gazette
notification, the accurate notice is the Sinhala medium
notification.
W. J. L. U. W
IJAYAWEERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations.
Labour Secretariat, 2nd Floor,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2253
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
For office use only
THE OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF
STENOGRAPHER (GRADE III) IN THE MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND LABOUR
RELATIONS - 2014
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) (Ex. : PERERA  A. B. C.)
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.
1.5 Sex : Male - 1
Female - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
2.3 The address to be sent examination admission form :
(i) In Sinhala :––––––––––––.
(ii) In English Block Capitals :––––––––––––.
2.4 Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Marital Status :
Married - 1
Unmarried- 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 The age as at the closing date of calling applications :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or
registration ? :––––––––––––.
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
4.1 The result of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year :––––––––––––. Month :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
4.2 The result or G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year :––––––––––––. Month :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject G rade
5.0 Professional Qualifications :
Name of Course Duration Institution
6.0 Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any offence ?
Yes N o
If you ever have been convicted in a Court of Law for any offence,
Why ?
7.0 Particulars on receipt paid the examination fees :
(i) The name of BOC branch paid the examination fees :––––
––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :
No. :––––––––––––. Date :––––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :––––––––––––.
Stick here receipt
8.0 Certification of Applicant :
(a) I declare the information furnished by me in the application
are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and I
agree herein to liable any disadvantage may be incurred due
to non furnishing and/or false information. Further, I declare
hereby that all the information is furnished accurately.
(b) I agree to act according to rules and regulations imposed by
Director General of National Institute of Labour Studies in
respect of holding examination and acknowledge the decisions
made to invalidate my candidature before or after the
examination if I am found to be disqualified in term of these
conditions.
(c) I am fully aware that if the declaration made by me was
proved to be untrue or incorrect prior to my selection to
this post, I would be disqualified and if such situation is
proved after my appointment to the post I am liable to be

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2254
sacked from the service without payment of any
compensation.
(d) I do not alter any information here mentioned later.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
9.0 Attestation of applicant's signature :
I certify that the applicant who submit this application, Mr./
Mrs./Miss ............................, is known to me, and He/She placed
his/her signature in front of me on ....................
–––––––––––––––,
The signature and official seal of
Attesting Officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name of Attesting Officer :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
10–1178
––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Recruitment to the Post of Director (Government Film
Unit) in the Department of Government Information on
contractual basis
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified candidates for
recruitment to the post of Director (Government Film Unit) in the
Department of Government Information on contractual basis.
1. 'Secretary' in this notice refers to the Secretary to the Public
Service Commission.
2. Structured Examination.– The date of the examination will be
decided by the Public Service Commission.
Fields considered in granting marks Maximum Mark
Additional Educational 45
and Professional Qualifications
Additional Experience 30
Special Skills Demonstrated in the field 20
Skill demonstrated in the interview 05
Total 100
3. Number of appointments. – Steps will be taken to fill 01
vacancies of posts of Director (Government Film Unit) in the
Department of Government Information on contractual basis.
4. Effective date of appointments.– Will be decided according to
the directions of the Public Service Commission.
5. Service conditions.– Selected candidates will be appointed to
the post of Director (Government Film Unit) on contractual basis
subject to general conditions governing public service appointments,
conditions and regulations in the Recruitment Procedure of the
Post of Director (Government Film Unit) in the Department of
Government Information on contractual basis approved by the
Public Service Commission on 27.06.2013 and amendments already
done and would be done in the future to the Recruitment Procedure.
6. The Public Service Commission has the authority to cancel
the appointments of candidates who fail to assume duties on the
due date and/or who reject or avoid to assume duties.
7. Monthly allowance.– Rs. 30,000.
8 Qualifications.– At the closing date of applications :
(i) Educational Qualifications. – Obtaining a degree from a
university recognized by the University Grant
Commission or a similar qualification.
(ii) Professional Qualifications .– Completion of Diploma
course relevant to the respective field from an
acknowledged institution will be considered as an
additional qualification.
(iii) Experience.– A  minimum 01 years experience on film
directing at a recognized organization.
(iv) Physical Qualifications .– Each candidate should be
physically and Psychologically fit to serve in any part
of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties of the post.
(v) Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should possess an excellent character,
(iii) All qualifications in regard to the appointment to
the post should be duly completed.
9. Age :
Minimum limit : 30 years
Maximum limit : 55 years
10. Method of submitting Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared according to the
specimen form of application attached to this notice
using an A4 sheet. Application should be filled in with
candidates own handwriting. Applications that do not
comply with the specimen form of application and
incomplete applications will be rejected without
notification. It will be useful to keep a photocopy of
the application. Candidate must check whether the duly
filled in application complies with the specimen form
of application. Otherwise, it may be rejected.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2255
(b) Completed applications should be sent by registered
post to reach the Ministry of Mass Media and
information, 'Asidisi Mandura', No. 163, Kirulapona
Avenue, Polhengoda, Colombo 05 before 28.11.2014.
Cite. "Recruitment to the Post of Director (Government
Film Unit) in the Department of Government
Information on Contractual Basis" on the top left hand
corner of the envelope. In which the application form is
enclosed. Applications received after the closing date
will not be accepted.
(c) Incomplete applications in any manner will be rejected.
Complaints on misplacements or delays will not be
entertained.
11. If any candidate was found guilty of providing any false
information or suppressing any important information purposely,
he/she is liable to be dismissed.
12. In case of any inconsistency or contradiction among the
Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of the Gazette notifiation, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
13. Matters not covered by these regulations will be determined
by the Public Service Commission.
According to Directions of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Mass Media and Information.
Ministry of Mass Media and Information,
No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05,
02nd October, 2014.
SPECIMEN  FORM  OF  APPLICATION
(For official use only)
R
ECRUITMENT  TO POST OF DIRECTOR (GOVERNMENT FILM UNIT) IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF  GOVERNMENT INFORMATION ON CONTRACTUAL BASIS
01. Medium :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
02. Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials stating initials at the end in English
block letters :
Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––.
(E.g.– SILV A, A. B.)
2.2 Name in full in English block letters :––––––––––.
2.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.4 Personal Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.5 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.6 Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1,  Tamil - 2,  Ind. Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4,  Other - 5)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
2.10 Telep hone Number (if available) :
3.0. Educational Qualifications :
University Degree Date of validation of Subjects
the degree
4.0. Professional Qualifications :
5.0. Experience :––––––––––.
6.0. Certification of the applicant :
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
10–1167

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2256
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment of Graduates in to Orientation and Co-ordinating Courses of the Service of
Professions Supplementary to Medicine
APPLICATIONS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who possess a Degree obtained from National Universities to recruit to the following
orientation and co-ordinating courses for the service of Professions Supplementary to Medicine in the Ministry of Health.
1. Eligible persons will be selected to each training course according to the merit list prepared on the basis of the year in which the
degree relevant to each training course is completed (Effective date of the Degree). The number of recruitments will be decided in terms of
the provisions of the approved recruitment procedure, considering the number of vacancies exciting each post by the date of recruitment. If
more graduates than the number of exciting vacancies have applied, a competitive examination which consists of a paper on gener al
knoweldge and aptitude of 01 hour will be conducted to select for the training. In such occasions eligible persons will be selected for each
training course on according to the list prepared in the order of merit obtained at the examination.
2. Educational and other Special Qualifications relevant to the Post :
Code Number Orientation and Co-ordinating Course Degree to be completed
01 Medical Laboratory Technologist B.sc. MLT
02 Pharmacist B.sc. Pharm
B.sc. Pharmacy (Special)
03 Physiotherapist B.sc. Physiotherapy
04 Radiographer B.sc. Radiotherapy Bsc. Radiography
3. Other General Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age by 28.11.2014.
(b) The effective date of the degree should be a date prior to the closing date.
(c) Should be fit mentally and physically.
(d) Should have continuously resided 3 years immediately proceeding the closing date within the district from which he/she is
applying.
4. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared using A4 size papers in accordance with the specimen form of application appended
to this notification Cages from 01-09 of the application should appear on the first side of the paper and cages from 10-13
should appear on the second side of the page.
(b) The receipt obtained by paying Rs. 300 to the credit of the Account of "Director General of Health Services collection of
Exam Fees" No. 7041318 of the Bank of Ceylon. Thaprobane Branch should be affixed so as not to be detached, on the
place where it is mentioned 'Receipt' in the application. (Please keep a copy of the receipt).
(c) Candidate's signature should be attested by a Principal of a Government School or a Justice of the Peace or Commissioner
for Oaths or an Attorney-at-Law or Notary Public or a public officer who holds a permanent and pensionable post in staff
grade and obtains a consolidated salary of Rs. 275,220 per annum.
(d) The words “Recruitment of Graduates as Trainees for the Training for the Services of Professions Supplementary to
Medicine - 2014” and relevant degree and the academic year should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope
of size 9"x4" in which the duly completed application is enclosed and it should be sent to reach Director, Admin 02,
Suwasiripaya, No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 under registered cover, before
28.11.2014.
(e) The graduates who are employed on contract basis in the institutes under the Ministry of Health should also submit
applications subject to the conditions in this Gazette notification if they wish to get a permanent post.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2257
5. Employees in Public or Provincial Public Service should submit their applications through the respective Head of the Department.
The applicants should note that this is an external recruitment and no one have right of reversion to the current post either he/she will be able
or not able to complete the training successfully.
6. Receipt of applications will not be informed and applications which will be received after the closing date will be rejected. The
applications which are not complying to the terms and the relevant specimen form given in this notification will be rejected wi thout any
notice.
7. If a competitive examination is not held, applicants who have satisfied the above qualifications according to the priority l ist
prepaired according to the effective date of the degree will be called for the interview. In case where it is difficult to select considering the
effective date of the degree, selections will be made considering the Grade Point Average (GPA). If a competitive examination is held the
applicants, according to the list prepared in order of merit obtained at the examination will be called for interview. The applicants should
submit the original copies and certified copies of the following documents at the interview :
(a) Birth Certificate.
(b) Degree Certificate (a certified copy should be sent with the application).
(c) Original certificates indicating the results of G . C. E. (O/L) and G. C. E. (A/L) Examinations.
(d) National Identity Card or Passport or Driving License (Certified copies should be sent attaching to the application).
(e) According to above 3(d), a certificate issued by Grama Niladhari and counter signed by Divisional Secretary to confirm the
residence (certificate of the Grama Niladhari).
8. Training Procedure :
Code No. Orientation and Co-ordinating Course Duration of the Course Medium in which the course
should be followed
1 Medical Laboratory Technologist 6 months English
2 Pharmacist 6 months English
3 Physio Therapist 6 months English
4 Radiographer 6 months English
(i) The selected applicants from the interview will be attached to training schools to follow the relevant orientation and co-
ordinating course. The course should be followed in the medium which is mentioned against each course.
(ii) Trainees attached to the training schools will be subject to the rules and regulations prevail in the training schools and the
orders imposed by the Ministry of Health time to time.
(iii) The training of those who will not complete the training successfully at the end of the training period or whose work and
conduct are not satisfactory or who fail to comply with the conditions in the training schools may be terminated without
compensation at any time.
(iv) A monthly allowance of Rs. 12,360 will be paid to the trainees.
(v) At the time you are admitted to the training school, you should enter into an agreement and bond of security with the
Director General of Health Services that you will complete the training successfully, that you will not leave the training
programme and that you will serve in the relevant post at least for a period of 05 years in the hospitals or Health
Department or the Provincial Council or line Ministry to which you are appointed. If you will be granted appointment after
completing the said entire training in case you resign or leave the training during the training period or your training is
terminated as per the above Section III or you fail to serve in the relevant post for a period of 05 years in the Department
of Health after appointment, the allowance paid to you during the training period, expenses incurred by the Government
and the amount of the security bond should be refunded to the Department of Health by you. If not legal actions will be
instituted to recover that amount.
9. Terms of Engagement. – At the end of the training it will be decided to grant/not to grant the permanent appointments
considering the number of existing vacancies. Accordingly, if the Ministry of Health decides to grant permanent appointments in the relevant
post, actions will be taken to appoint the candidates to the Class III of the relevant post in terms of the conditions in the s cheme of
recruitment relevant to the course concerend.
The above code number 1, 2, 3, 4 releted to Service of Professions Supplementary to Medicine is entitled to the salary scale of
Rs. 15,440 -5x180 -5x240-11x320-20x360 - Rs. 28,260 in terms of P . A. C. No. 06/2006(iv) and salaries will be paid from the 1st salary step
after placing on the 1st salary step of Grade III.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2258
10. Applicants should carefully and accurately fill the particulars of education and other qualifications in the application. If the
above certificates are proved to the counterfeit after recruitment to the training or after appointment, actions will be taken to refer to the
Criminal Investigation Department for legal actions, to cancel the appointment to dismiss from the training/post, and to enter his/her name
in the black list of those who are not permitted to be reemployed in the Public Service after taking legal actions against him/her. And, actions
will be taken to recover the allowance paid to him/her during the training period, expenses incurred by the Government and the amount of
Agreement and Surety Bond.
11. Selected applicants should submit themselves for a medical examination during the first month of the training to certify that
the applicant is physically and mentally fit to follow the course and serve in any part of the island and if an applicant is fo und to be unfit
from the medical examination he/she will be disqualified for the training.
12. All persons selected as above will be subject to all Laws and Regulations Relevant to the Public Officers the provisions of the
Establishments Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies imposed by the Department of Health. Financial Regulations,
other regulations and rules regulations and orders that may be imposed by the government from time to time.
13. If any problem arises regarding recruitment to the training or any matter covered or uncovered by this Gazette notification, the
decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health will be the final.  In case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English
texts, the text in Sinhala will prevail.
14. This Ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities in the Training Schools for the applicants recruited for the training. If
such facilities provided, rent assessed for a housing room and the water and electricity bills will be charged.
SUDHARMA KARUNARATNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
'Suwasiripaya',
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
08th October, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT OF GRADUATES TO ORIENTATION AND CO-ORDINATING TRAINING
COURSES FOR THE SERVICE OF PROFESSIONS SUPPLEMENTARY TO MEDICINE
(Read the Gazette notification carefully before filling the application)
* Name of the Course applying for :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
* Name of the Course applying for :–––––––––––.
(In English)
01. ( a) Last name with Initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
Ex.– A. B. C. SILV A
(b) Name in full (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
(c) Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :
03. Postal address : In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––– In English :––––––––––––
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
––––––––––––. ––––––––––––.
04. ( a) Permanent address : In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––– In English :––––––––––––
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
–––––––––––– ––––––––––––
––––––––––––. ––––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2259
(b) Telephone No. : Mobile : Residential :
(c) District : In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––. In English :–––––––––––.
(d) Whether you are a permanent resident in the above district Yes/No :–––––––––––.
(e) If yes, Since when ? :–––––––––––. Date :–––––––––––.
05. Date of birth :  Year :–––––––––––  Month :–––––––––––  Date :–––––––––––.
Age as at 28.11.2014 :  Years :–––––––––––  Months :–––––––––––  Days :–––––––––––.
06. Gender : Female : Male : (Mark ‘ 3’ in the relevant cage)
07. Whether you are citizen of Sri Lanka : Yes : No :
08. Civil status : Married : Single :
09. Educational qualifications :
Degree Grade Grade point Averages (GP A) University Academic Year
10. Have you ever been convicted for any charge in a court of law ? Yes : No :
(Mark ‘3’ in the relevant cage)
If so, give particulars :–––––––––––.
11. Certificate of the Applicant :
(a) Certify that I have carefully read and understood the Gazette notification and filled the application subject to all the conditions
mentioned there in, and I do not take part in any other full time course and the particulars furnished by me in the application are
true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration or any particulars contained in the application are found to be false I am liable to be disqulaified
for the training and if so found after appointment I am liable to be dismissed.
(c) And, I am aware that this is an external appointment and I have no right to reversion to the current post even if I will be/not be
able to complete the training successfully.
Receipt
Rs. 300
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
12. Attestation of the applicant's signature :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who is submitting his application is personally known to me and she/
he placed his/her signature in my presence on ............................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
–––––––––––––––,
Official Frank of the Attester.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2260
13. Certification of the Head of the Department if the applicant is in Public Service/Provincial Public Service (Delete irrelevant words) :
(i) I certify that the above applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. holds the post of ....................... ...................... in
this Department.
(ii) I hereby certify that the particulars furnished in the above application are true and he/she can/cannot be released if he/she
will be selected to the post.
(iii) I hereby inform that I explained him/her that this is an external recrutiment and he/she has no right of reversion to the current
post after completing successfully or without completing the relevant training.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Official frank of the Head of Department :–––––––––––.
Name of the Head of Department :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
10–1029
––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  LANDS  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Survey Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO POSTS IN SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE
WHICH REMAIN V ACANT IN SURVEY DEPARTMENT
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open competitive Examination to be held to recruit to  the
posts in Sri Lanka Technological Service which remain vacant in Survey Department.
1.1 Posts to be recruited :
Table No. 01
Serial Designation Number of vacancies Grade for which
No. to be filled recruitment is made
1 Building Supervisor Only in Head Office in Colombo. Should be 01 Grade III
worked in the Head Office in Colombo
2 Transport Officer during the entire period of service 01 Grade III
1.2 Nature of duties of Posts :
Table No. 02
Serial No. Designation Nature of duty/Main Functions
1 Building Supervisor 01. Preparation of annual building maintenance plan.
02. Propose the building maintenance process to the management.
03. Supervising of employee gangs.
04. Storing of raw material required for maintenance, tools and management.
05. Taking quantity surveying for payments and obtaining of approvals.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2261
Serial No. Designation Nature of duty/Main Functions
2 Transport Officer 01. Supplying of technical info rmation requrie for maintenance of departmental vehicles in
road worthy condition.
02. Providing of approval and recommendation report require for repairs.
03. Supervision of road worthy condition of vechiles after repairs, supervision of maintenance
of vehicles.
04. Giving instruction to drivers
05. In case of accident immediate investigations and providing reports and condemnation of
wrecked vehicles.
06. Adjusting of vehicle to obtain environment friendly certificates.
2. The number of appointment and the date of appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. The appointing
authority has power to fill or not to fill all or any number of vacancies.
3. Salary.– Table No. 03
Grade Salary Scale Initial monthly salary
Grade III Monthly Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885 Rs. 15,005
(MN3- 2006A)
Grade II Monthly Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885
(Initiate from salary step 12) (MN3- 2006A) Rs. 17,485
Grade I Monthly Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885
(Initiate from salary step 23) (MN3- 2006A) Rs. 21,045
4. These posts are permanent and pensionable. Appointment is subject to 03 years probation period. Since the remaining posts
are available only at head office in Colombo you should serve in the head office during the entire period of service and subject to general
conditions applicable to appointment to the public service specified at the beginning of this Gazette notification.
5. Qualifications :
5.1 Basic qualifications :
(01) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(02) The minimum age should be 18 years and maximum age should be 45 years as at the closing date of application.
(The maximum age limit is not applicable for those who hold a permanent post already in the public service)
5.2 Educational qualification :
(a) Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six subjects in not more than two sittigngs with credit passes
for Language or Literature, Mathematics, Science and for one another subject ; and
(b) Should have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) examination (except Common General Test) in three Science subjects in one
sitting including two subjects from amongst the Combined Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry.
* Those who apply for the post of Building Supervisor and transport officer should have obtained the following
vocational qualifications in addition to the qualifications in 5.1 and 5.2 above.
01. Building Supervisor :
(i) Should have obtained three year part time training course of National Technological Certificate in a government
recognized technical college.
(ii) Should have complete level 5 or 6 of National Vocational Qualifications (NVQ) relevant to the professional field.
1. Transport Officer :
(i) Should have obtained three years part time trainng course of National Technological Certificate (Civil) in a
government recognized technial college.
(ii) Should have completed level 5 or 6 of National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) relevant to the professional
field.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2262
V ocational Qualifications specified in (1) and (2) above should have been obtained in the field of mechanical for the
post of transport and in the field of civil for the post of Building Supervisor and from a below mentioned institution.
(a) National Diploma in Technology awarded by the University of Moratuwa or Hardy Techical College Ampara ;
or
(b) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the National Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Authority ;
or
(c) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the Ministry of Education and Higher Education ;
or
(d) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka ;
or
(e) Successful completion of para. 01 of the Engineering examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of
Engineer;
or
(f) Any other qualifications recognized by the Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home
Affairs as being equivalent in all respect to the Technological Qualifications mentioned above after obtaining
views of the institutions such as Ministry of Higher Education and the Institutions by which the above
certificates issued.
5.3 Physical fitness .– All candidates should be physically fit adequate to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to carry out
duties in the post.
Note.– It is compulsory that all applicants should complete necessary qualifications to the post on or before the closing
date of application.
6. Furnishing false information .– If a candidate is found not to have required qualification to sit this examination his/her
candidature can be cancelled before the examination or duration of the examination, or after the examination or at any time. If any of the
particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false within his/her knoweldge or if he/she has willfully suppressed by material fact he/
she will be liable to dismissal from the public service.
7. Examination Procedure.– The examination will consists of written test consisting two subjects. This examination will be held
in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. The medium applied will not be allowed to change subsequently.
Maximum marks obtainable Minimum percentage of marks Time
requried for a pass
01. Intelligence 100 50% 1 hour
02. Technologial paper 100 50% 2 hours
7.1 Syllabus :
01. Intelligence.– Consists of questions to judge the rationality of thought, analytical ability of thought and ability to
decide, of the candidate.
02. Technological paper :
* Mathematics.
* Algebra (In equation, Variables, Grades, Logarithm).
* Trigonometry (Solving of Equation, Triangles).
* Statistics (Mean, Mode, Standard Deviation, probability).
Physics.
Lights and Optics (Reflection and Refraction : Mirrors, Curved Surfaces, Prisms, Lenses and Formulas of Optics,
Microscope and Telescope.
Newtonian mechanics (Scalars and Vectors, Newton's Law of motion, Momentum).
Miscellaneous topics.
Introduction to geography (shape of the earth, topography etc.)
The angle view of solid substances and derivation of projections. Maps produced by the Survey Department.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2263
8. Selection procedure :
8.1 Number of candidates equal to the number to be filled, of
the candidates who obtained the highest marks of a written
examination conduct by the Surveyor General, will be
recruited firstly in the order of merits and secondly on
the options to the post indicate in the application.
8.2 An interview will be held to ascertain whether the
qualifications have been fulfilled and no marks will be
given for the interview.
9. Recruitment.– The candidates selected to the post of Trainee
Grade will be appointed to Grade III in Technological Service after
completion of 02 years Technologial Diploma successfully, at the
institute of surveying and mapping at Diyathalawa.
10. Preparation and submission of application :
01. The application should be prepared by the applicant
himself using both side of a paper size 21x29 (A4) as
per the specimen application appearing at the end of
this notice. No. 01 - 04 should be on page 01, No. 04.1-
10.1 on page 02, No. 10.2-11.1 on page 03 and No. 12-
14 on page 04 and No. 15 should be on page 05 of the
application.
02. Candidates who are already employed in Public or
Provincial Public Serivces should forward their
applications through their Heads of the Departments,
candidates who are employed in public corporations
the local government bodies etc. should forward their
applications through their Heads of Institutions on or
before the due date.
03. Applications should be in the language in which the
candidates are eligible to sit the examination.
04. Applications which are not complying with the
specimen form, examination fees have not been paid,
of improper filling, will be rejected without any notice.
Candidates should bear consequences of improper filling
of applications. It would be useful to retain a
photocopy of the application. It is responsibility of
the candidate to find out whether the completed
application complies with the application specified in
the notice. If not application will be rejected.
05. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledge.
Complaints for any loss of applications in the post
will not be considered.
N. B.– Changing of examination centre applied to sit the
examination will not be allowed subsequently.
10.1 On the presumption that only the candidates who
have qualifications specified in Gazette Notification
have applied, Surveyor General will allow all
candidates who have paid specified examination fees
and submitted application on or before 31.10.2013
to sit the examination. Issuing of admission card
shall not be deemed as the applicant possesses
qualifications to the post or to sit the examination.
Candidature of the applicant will be cancelled if it
is found at the time of interview that the applicant
does not possess the requirement for this post.
10.2 The envelope containing the application should be
clearly marked "Recruitment to the posts in
technological service" on the top left hand corner.
10.3 The signature of the applicant in the application
should be certified by a principal of a government
school/justice of the peace/Commissioner of Oaths/
Attorney-at-Law/Commissioned Officer in the
Army/An officer in Police Service hold a Gazetted
Post or an Officer who hold a permanent post in
Public service in tertiary or senior level in terms of
the grading of Public Service Circular
No. 06/2006.
11. Examination Fee. – Examination fee is Rs. 800. This fee
should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor General Office in
No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any of district survey
office or at institute of surveying and mapping - Diyathalawa. The
receipt should be pasted in the relevant cage in the application
form. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with
applicant). The fee is not refundable in any circumstance and money
orders and cheques will not be accepted. Applications without cash
receipts will be rejected.
12. Submission of application .– Completed application should
be sent by registered post to reach to the following address on or
before 27th November, 2014 :
Surveyor General,
Survey Department,
P. O. Box 506,
Colombo.
13. Appearing for the Examination .– Every candidate should
hand over their admission card to the supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate who fails to hand over his admission card will
not be permitted to sit the examination. The candidate should sit
the examination at the examination hall assigned to him.
14. Identity of Candidate.– Candidates should prove their Identity
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
paper they sit. Any of the following documents will be accepted
for their purpose :
01. The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
02. The valid postal Identity Card issued by the post master
general.
03. A valid passport.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2264
15. Any matter not specified here will be determined by the
Sruveyor General. All applicants shall be bound to act in terms of
the general rules and regulations of examination specified in this
Gazette Notification.
P. M. P. U
DAYAKANTHA,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department,
Colombo 05.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST IN SRI
LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE WHICH REMAIN VACANT IN THE SURVEY
DEPARTMENT
For office use only
01. Name of the examination centre applied to sit the examination :
Colombo
Diyathalawa
Anuradhapura
Indicate mark "
3" in the relevant cage of the centre the applicant
intends to sit for the examination and indicate mark "X" in
other two cages.
02. Medium of examination :
(Sinhala - S T amil - T English - E)
(Indicate the letter/code in given cages)
03. The orders of preference for which appointment are to be made :
No. 01 should be marked for the post of highest preference and
No. 02 in serial order for next preferences :
Serial No. Designation Preference No.
1. Building Controller
2. Transport Officer
04. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
In Sinhala :––––––––––––.
In English :––––––––––––.
04.1 Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
In Sinhala :––––––––––––.
In English :––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Date : Month : Y ear :
07. Gender :
Male - M
Female - F
08. Permanent address (in legible letters) :–––––––––––.
08.1 Administrative district to which address belongs :–––––.
District No. :          Name of the District :
08.2 Date from which the applicant is resident in the district :
–––––––––––.
09. Telephone No. : Permanent :–––––––––––.
Mobile :–––––––––––.
10. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––.
10.1 Details of G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
1st attempt :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
* mention subjects, starting with the highest grade obtained.
10.2 Details of G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
2nd attempt :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
* mention subjects, starting with the highest grade obtained.
10.3 Details of G. C. E. Advanced Level Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1
2
3
4

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2265
11. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any offence :
Yes N o
11.1 If yes give details :–––––––––––.
12. Details of receipt which the examination fees paid :
(i) Office at which the payment made :–––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
13. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to
be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the appointment
and if it is found after the appointment, I would be liable
to dismissal from the service.
(c) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of .................
has been pasted in relevant cage.
(d) Further, I declare that I agree to comply with the rules
and regulations laid down by the Surveyor General in
respect of the examination.
(e) I shall not subsequently change any of the particulars
mention here.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
14. Certification of Signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ who is submitting
the appilcation is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature under the section 13, in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(By affixing the official stamp)
15. Recommendation of the Head of the Department (Only for the
applicants who are in Public/Provincial Public Service) :––––.
15.1 According to the personal file of the officer, during the
five years immediately prior to the closing date of
application :
Work, Behaviour, Attendance satisfactory/Unsatisfactory.
All salary increments have been earned/have not been earend.
Has not been/has been subject to any disciplinary action.
15.2 If selected to the post applied for, this officer can be/
cannot be released from the post he holds at present. The
application is recommended/not recommended.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––.
SCHEDULE 01
This Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts to which
address belongs on No. 8.1 of the application.
Town/District Name Town/District No.
1. Colombo 01
2. Gampaha 02
3. Kalutara 03
4. Kandy 04
5. Matale 05
6. Nuwara Eliya 06
7. Galle 07
8. Matara 08
9. Hambantota 09
10. Kurunegala 10
11. Puttalam 11
12. Anuradhapura 12
13. Polonnaruwa 13
14. Badulla 14
15. Monaragala 15
16. Rathnapura 16
17. Kegalle 17
18. Ampara 18
19. Batticaloa 19
20. Trincomalee 20
21. Jaffna 21
22. Vavuniya 22
10–961

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2266
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Open Competitive  Examination for Recruitment of
Officers to Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering
Service- 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby called on the order of the Public Service
commission for Competitive Examination held for recruitment of
suitable officers to fill vacancies in the posts belonging to the
categories of Civil, Mechanical, Electrical (Heavy and Light) and
Chemical Engineers of Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering' Service,
in the government institutions island wide. Applications prepared
in accordance with the specimen attached at the end of this
notification shall be sent by registered post to reach the
Commissioner General of Examination, Organizations & Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka,
P.O Box 1503, Colombo on or before the date mentioned below.
The top left corner of the envelop in which the application is
enclosed should bear clearly the title "Open Competitive
Examination for recruitment of officers to Grade III of Executive
Service Category of Sri Lanka Engineering Service - 2014".
(a) The deadline of calling applications is 01.12.2014.
Note: No complaint that an application or a letter in respect
of such applications have been lost or delayed in the post
shall be considered. The candidates shall bear any loss
which may occur due to delay in sending applications
until the closing date of application.
1. Method of Recruitment to the Service :
1.1 Only engineers who posses professional qualification
in the relevant stream are recruited under the open
stream. Applicants are selected for appointments after
calling for an interview according to the order of the
marks obtained at the written test and verifying
whether they have satisfied the qualifications relevant
to the post. The effective date of appointment and
the number of appointments shall be determined by
the Public Service Commission. Public Service
Commission reserves the authority to fill all the
vacancies or a certain number of vacancies.
2. Conditions for engagement in Service :
2.1  A selected candidate will be appointed to Grade III of
the Sri Lanka Engineering Service subject to the general
conditions governing appointments in the public
service and also subject to the terms and conditions
set out in the Minute on the Sri, Lanka Engineering
Service Published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.1836/6
dated 11
th November 2013, and.any revisions made or
to be made hereafter to the aforesaid Minute.
2.2 This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates will be required to contribute to the
"Widows and Orphans / Widowers and Orphans
Pension Fund".
2.3 The appointment will be subjected to a probation
period of three (03) years and the officers should pass
the First Efficiency Bar Examination within this
period of three (03) years.
2.4 The appointees shall acquire proficiency in other
languages as per Public Administration Circular No.
1/2014 within 05 years from the date of appointment.
Officers who join the service in a language other than
an official language shall acquire proficiency in one
official language within 03 years and the proficiency
in other official language shall be aquired within six
(06) years. Proficiency in second official language Level
1 should be acquired.
2.5 Appointments will be made subject to the Procedural
Rules of the Public Service Commission,
Establishments Code of Democratic Socialist Repubilc
of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the government
and other departmental orders.
2.6 The appointees shall be prepared to serve in any part
of the island in which they are called upon to serve.
2.7 Appointees shall be subjected to serve in both public
service as well as provincial public service.
2.8 The appointment of any candidate who fails to assume
duties of the appointed post on the prescribed date
and/or rejects or avoids assuming duties in the post or
the area appointed, may be cancelled.
3. Salary Scale.– As per the Public Administration Circular No
06/2006 the Salary scale (Monthly) of SL-l-2006, Rs. 22,935/= -
10x 645 -8x790-17xl ,050- Rs. 53, 555/= is entitled to this post.
However, an engineer who have possessed full professional
qualifications (Status of Charted Engineer) at the time of recruitment
or possesses full professional qualifications after recruitment shall
be placed on sixth (06) salary step entitled Grade III of the Service.
4. Educational and Other Professional Qualifications :
4.1 Educational Qualifications :
4.1.1 Shall have completed successfully a four (04) year
full time degree in Bachelor of Science in Engineering
from a university of Sri Lanka recognized by the
University Grants Commission and the Institution
of Engineers, Sri Lanka under an Engineering
Discipline relevant to the category of engineers for
which appointment is sought, and possessed the
degree.
or
4.1.2 Shall have completed a course recognized by the
University Grants Commission and Institute of
Engineers Sri Lanka as equivalent to the degree
mentioned in 4.1.1 under a discipline relevant to
the Category of Engineers for which appointment
is sought and obtained a valid certificate to prove
the qualification.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2267
4.2 Professional Qualifications :
4.2.1 Shall have obtained the valid certificate issued by
Institute of Engineers in Sri Lanka to prove that the
recognized educational requirements and
qualifications have been satisfied to obtain the
membership of the said institution.
5.Age Limit :
5.1 The applicant should be not less than 21 years of age
and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing
date of the application.
5.2 However, the maximum age limit for Technical Officer
in public service or provincial public service
(Engineering Assistant belonging to Engineering
Assistants' Service of the Department of Irrigation
(earlier Technical Assistant) or an officer holding the
post of Supervising Manager of the Department of
Railways or a Technical Officer belonging to Sri Lanka
Technological Service and possessing qualifications
approved by the appointing authority) who has joined
the service before 11.11.2013 the maximum age limit
shall be 45 years.
6. Physical Qualifications :
6.1 Shall be physically fit in every aspect to perform the
duties of the post and to serve in any part of the
island.
7. Other Qualifications :
7.1 Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
7.2 Shall be of excellent moral character
7.3 The subjects indicated in the academic transcript
issued to confirm the qualifications prescribed in
section 4 above shall be conformed in every aspect to
the requirements of category of engineers for which
recruitments are made.
7.4 No person ordained in any religious order shall become
qualified for making application
7.5 A Technical officer who is qualified under 5.2, shall be
permanent in the post and shall complete 05 years of
satisfactory service period· immediately preceding the
date of closing date of applications.
7.6 All the qualifications and conditions required for
recruitment to the post shall have been satisfied each
and every way as at the closing date of applications.
8. Written Examination and the Interview :
8.1 Written Examination :
8.1.1. This examination is conducted by the
Commissioner General of examinations 8.1.2.
This grading examination is held to determine the
order of recruitment of the engineers who have
satisfied the qualifications in 4 above.
8.1.3. Syllabus :
This examination is limited to a written aptitude
test which carries 100 marks with the objective of
measuring the ability of candidate on critical
reasoning, the analytical power and the ability for
decision making based on the knowledge obtained
through the study of Engineering Science
mentioned in 4 above. The question contains
multiple choice questions to be answered with 1
1/2 hours. All questions should be answered.
8.2 Interview :
8.2.1 Applicants are called for the interview according
to the order of the marks obtained at the written
test.
8.2.2 Qualifications mentioned in Sri Lanka Engineering
Service Minute and the Gazette Notification
published in accordance with the said minute and
the physical fitness shall be verified.
8.2.3 No marks shall be allocated:
8.2.4 The verification of qualification shall be carried
out by an interview board appointed by the Public
Services Commission
8.2.5 The candidates should provide relevant
certificates and documents and all the documents/
certificates shall be valid. No document/ certificate
issued under the covering approval of the
competent authority are not treated as valid.
8.2.6 In case where few candidates have obtained same
marks, the decision shall be made by the Public
Service Commission which shall be the final.
9. Conditions of the Examination :
9.1 This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English Media. Candidates can sit for the examination
in one language they prefer. Candidates are not
allowed to change the medium mentioned in the
application.
9.2 The examination fee is Rs.1000.00. It should be paid
before the closing date of applications at any District
Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to
Revenue Head 2003-02-13. A corner of the receipt
(endorsed by the applicant's Name) obtained from
the District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat should
be pasted in the relevant place of the application
form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
receipt with the candidate.
9.3 This fee is non-refundable under any circumsnatce.
9.4 Examination shall be held in Colombo and the venue
will be informed later.
9.5 Incomplete applications are rejected without a notice.
Note .– No candidate is permitted to enter the
examination hall without the admission card. The
admission card in which the signature of the
candidate has been attested, should be produced
to the supervisor on the first day he presents
himself/herself for the examination.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2268
The issuance of an admission card to a candidate
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
9.6 Application should be prepared on both sides of
papers of size A-4 in such a way that Heading Nos.
1.0 to 5.0 appears on the first page, 6.0 to 7.0 on the
second page, 8.0 to 11.0 on the third page and 12 on
the fourth page and should be filled clearly in the
candidate's own handwriting. While preparing the
application in a language other than English (i.e.
Sinhala or Tamil), it is also required to indicate the
name of the examination, which is indicated in the
heading of the application, in English language. Since
applications with incomplete information and not
in compliance with the specimen form of the
application will be rejected without notice, the
candidate should check whether the perfected
application is in conformity with the specimen
application form, whether the application has been
perfected with all information, whether relevant fee
has been paid, relevant information of the payment
has been entered to the application and the receipt
has been attached. It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the application.
9.7 Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged
and as soon as admission cards are issued to
applicants, a notice to that effect shall be published
in the newspapers. If the admission card is not
received even after 02 or 03 days from the aforesaid
notice, it shall be informed to the Department of
Examination of Sri Lanka as stipulated in the
advertisement. The Commissioner-General of
Examinations shall issue admission cards to those
who are within the age limit mentioned in the
notification and have sent perfected applications
along with the receipt obtained after making the
relevant examination fee. As soon as admission cards
are issued to applicants, a notice to that effect shall
be published in the newspapers by the Department
of Examinations, Sri Lanka. If the admission card is
not received at least before 05 days to the
examination, it shall be inquired from the
Organizations & Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka as
stipulated in the advertisement. When such an inquiry
is made name of the examination applied for, full
name of the applicant, National Identity card No,
and address should be clearly ,mentioned. In case of
applicants outside Colombo, it will be more effective
to send a letter of request to the fax number
mentioned in the said advertisement furnishing a fax
number to which the admission card should be sent.
It would be advisable to keep a copy of the
application form and the receipt kept at applicant's
possession, copy of the receipt of examination fees
and the receipt of registering the letter, in order to
prove certain matters inquired by the Department
of Examinations.
9.8 Public Services Commission reserves the authority
to cancel or postpone the examination.
9.9 Candidates shall be bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations on conducting the examination.
They are liable to a punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for breach
of these rules.
9.10 Identity of the Candidate :
A candidate will be required to prove his identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor. For this purpose, only one of the
following documents will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
Note:-(a) No document of a copy of a document should not be
attached to the application.
(b) Applications of the candidates, who fails to submit
the relevant documents at the time of request, will not
be considered.
Officers who are serving in Public Service/ Provincial Public
Service, Government Corporation should send their applications
through respective Head of Department/Institution. It is
compulsory for all the candidates to get his/ her signature on the
application or the admission card, attested. Candidate who appears
at the examination through an institution should get his/ her signature
attested by the Head of the Institution where he/ she serves. Other
candidates should get their signature attested by a Principal of a
Government School, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of
the Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned
Officer in the armed forces, an officer holding a post in the staff
grade in Public Service or Provincial Public Service whose annual
consolidated salary is Rs. 240,360 or by a Chief Incumbent of a
Buddhist Temple or a Nayaka Thero or by a Prelate in charge of a
religious place of other faith and holding a certain order.
10. Condition of the Procedural Rules of the Public Service
Commission, Circular issued from time to time in relation to Public
Service and the Service Minute relevant to Grade III of Executive
Service Category and the revision made thereto are relevant to this
post.
11. Once a suitable date to release the results is notified by the
Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
actions will be taken by the Department of Examinations.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2269
12. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
P. B.  ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
For Office use only
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT ENGINEERS TO THE
GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA ENGINEERING SERVICE - 2014
Language Media of Examination :
Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(Indicate the appropriate number in the box)
Category applied for :
Civil 1
Mechanical 2
Electrical (Heavy and 3
Light)
Chemical 4
(Indicate the appropriate number in the box)
1.0 Name :
1.1 Name with initials at the end (in English Block Capitals)
Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
Ex. : Mr. GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
1.2 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(in the language of your National Identity Card)
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Address, to which admission card should be sent :–––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.3 Telephone Numbers :
Land line :––––––––––––.
Mobile :––––––––––––.
2.4 Postal Town :––––––––––––.
2.5 E-mail Address :––––––––––––.
3.0 Gender group (Male - 0,  Female - 1) :
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 5.1 Ethnic group (Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2,
Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5) :
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
5.2 Marital Status (Single - 1, Married  - 2) :
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
5.3 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
5.4 Age as at the closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
6.0 6.1 Educational Qualifications :
(i) Effective date of the degree or qualifications mentioned
in para 4.1.2 of the Gazette Notification :––––––––.
(ii) University/Institution :––––––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number and Date :––––––––––––.
(iv) Name of the Degree Course : (Eg. : B.Sc. Engineering)
:––––––––––––.
(v) Engineering discipline :––––––––––––.
(Eg. : Civil, Mechanical, production, Electrical,
Electronic, Chemical)
(vi) Year of completion of the Degree or qualifications
mentioned in para 4.1.2 of the Gazette notification :
––––––––––––.
(vii) Subjects of the Final Year :––––––––––––.
(viii) Language in which the candidate sat the examination
:––––––––––––.
6.2 Professional Qualifications, if any :––––––––––––.
(Eg. : MICE, MIE)
7.0 Particulars of the present post and posts held previously, if
any (date of entry to the service, date of resignation and reasons
for resignation should be mentioned) :
7.1 Post :––––––––––––.
7.2 Department/Institution :––––––––––––.
7.3 Date of Appointment :––––––––––––.
7.4 Whether permanent/pensionable/non-pensionable/
temporary :––––––––––––.
7.5 Whether confirmed in the post :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'10'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.10.2014
2270
7.6 Salary scale of the post and present salary :–––––––––.
7.7 Particulars of the posts held previously (Extra paper
can be used) :––––––––––––.
7.8 Have you every been subjected to disciplinary
punishment, whilst you hold any of the posts mentioned
here ? If so, furnish the particulars of the offence and the
punishment imposed :––––––––––––.
8.0 Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for a criminal
offence ? If so, furnish particulars of such conviction and penalty
imposed :––––––––––––.
9.0 Please paste the receipt along one side so as not to be detached
(It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the
candidates) :––––––––––––.
Number of the Receipt :––––––––––––.
Paying Office :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
10.0 Declaration of the applicant :
I hereby certify that the particulars given by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualify if detected before selection ; to dismissal without
compensation, if detected after appointment.
Furthermore, I hereby state that I am bound by all rules and
regulations with regard to conducting the examination and issuing
the results imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
11. Attestation of Signature (As per 9.10 of the Gazette
notification) :
I hereby certify that (name in full) .......................... who submits
this application is known to me personally and he/she has affixed
the receipt and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence
on ..........................
––––––––––––––––,
(Signature of the Officer attesting the signature).
Date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by the official stamp)
11. Report of the Head of Department if the applicant is in the
Public Service :
I hereby certify that (name in full) .......................... who submits
this application is known to me personally and that he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on ........................
I certify that the particulars given in paragraph 06 above on
present service of the officer are correct and his/her work and conduct
are ....................... He/she can be/cannot be released from the present
post.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by the official stamp)
10–1113