

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 293]
————————
Presented by the Minister of  Justice, Prison Affairs and
Constitutional Reforms  on 03rd of September, 2024
(Published in the Gazette on August 05, 2024)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 66.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
COMMISSION FOR  TRUTH, UNITY AND
RECONCILIATION IN SRI LANKA
to provide for the establishment of the Commission for  Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka; to set out the powers and functions of such
Commission; to provide for the establishment of the monitoring committee
of the Commission for the purpose of monitoring the implementation of the
recommendations of the Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka and
to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto
————————

<!-- page 2 -->

1Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
5
10
15
20
L.D.-O. 63/2024
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMISSION FOR
TRUTH, UNITY AND RECONCILIATION IN SRI LANKA; TO SET OUT THE
POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF SUCH COMMISSION; TO PROVIDE FOR THE
ESTABLISHMENT  OF THE MONITORING  C OMMITTEE   OF THE
COMMISSION FOR THE PURPOSE OF MONITORING THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF  THE  RECOMMENDATIONS  OF THE  T RUTH , U NITY  AND
RECONCILIATION IN SRI LANKA AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS the Constitution of Sri Lanka recognises the
inherent dignity and equal and inalienable fundamental
rights of all Sri Lankans, including the right to equality and
equal protection of the law of all persons, and the State’s
obligation to respect, promote and protect those rights:
AND WHEREAS a truth-seeking mechanism, anchored in
the right of all Sri Lankans to know the truth concerning the
matters provided herein, which is an integral part of their
right to an effective remedy, will contribute to the promotion
of national unity, peace, rule of law, co-existence, equality
with tolerance and respect for diversity, and reconciliation
among the people of Sri Lanka and non-recurrence of
disharmony and violence for the wellbeing and security of
all Sri Lankans including future generations:
AND WHEREAS respecting the fundamental rights and
duties and implementing the directive principles of State
policy enshrined in the Constitution being a primary
objective of all the organs of the Government of  Sri Lanka,
and having solemnly resolved to  ratify the immutable
republican principles of representative democracy and
assuring all peoples’ freedom, equality, justice, fundamental
rights as the intangible heritage that guarantees the dignity
and well-being of succeeding generations of the people of
Preamble

<!-- page 3 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
2
5
10
15
20
25
Sri Lanka, and recognising that a national policy of truth
seeking and the advancement of national unity and
reconciliation furthers the State’s assurance to all people of
Sri Lanka freedom, equality, justice, fundamental rights and
the independence of the judiciary recognised under the
Constitution:
NOW THEREFORE, BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Commission for Truth,
Unity and Reconciliation  in Sri Lanka Act, No.    of 2024.
(2) The provisions of this Act, other than this section
shall come into operation on the date of expiration of two
months from the date on which this Bill becomes an Act of
Parliament (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”).
(3) The provisions of this section shall come into
operation on the date on which this Bill becomes an Act of
Parliament.
PART I
E
STABLISHMENT OF THE COMMISSION FOR TRUTH, UNITY AND
RECONCILIATION IN SRI LANKA
2. (1) There shall be established a Commission which
shall be called and known as the Commission for  Truth,
Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred
to as the “Commission”).
(2) The Commission shall be a body corporate with a
common seal, and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.
Short title
and date of
operation
Establishment
of the
Commission
for Truth,
Unity and
Reconciliation
in Sri Lanka

<!-- page 4 -->

3Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
5
10
15
20
25
(3) The seal of the Commission shall be in the custody of
the Chairperson of the Commission and may be altered in
such manner as may be determined by the Commission.
(4) The seal of the Commission shall be authenticated by
the signature of the Chairperson of the Commission.
(5) The Commission shall be located in Colombo and
may conduct its sittings in any place in Sri Lanka.
(6) The Commission may set up such regional offices as
necessary.
3. (1) The Commission shall consist of not less than seven
members and not more than twenty-one members, all of
whom shall be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(2) The composition of the Commission shall reflect the
pluralistic nature of Sri Lanka, including gender, and all
members shall be persons of integrity and credibility
appointed on the basis of their knowledge and practical
experience in disciplines relating to law, fundamental rights
and humanitarian law, history, social sciences, psychology,
investigations, post conflict studies reconciliation and child
rights and may possess other qualifications relevant to the
carrying out of functions of the Commission.
(3) Any person who intends to be appointed as a member
of the Commission or who wishes to nominate any other
suitable person, whom he deems it expedient to be appointed
as a member of the Commission, may make an application
to the Constitutional Council expressing his intention to be
so appointed or nominating such other person, in such
manner as may be specified in the rules made under this Act.
The
composition
of the
Commission

<!-- page 5 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
4
5
10
15
20
25
(4) The members of the Commission shall be appointed
by the President on the recommendation of the
Constitutional Council.
(5) In making its recommendations under subsection (4),
the Constitutional Council shall have due regard to the
provisions of subsection (2) and shall take in to account the
applications made under subsection (3).
(6) The Constitutional Council shall recommend three
names from among the members of the Commission to the
President out of whom the President shall appoint one person
as the Chairperson of the Commission.
4. (1) Unless such member vacates office earlier under
subsection (2), every member of the Commission shall hold
office up to the date of expiration of the term of the
Commission in terms of section 9.
(2) The office of a member shall become vacant -
(a) upon the death of such member;
(b) upon such member resigning from such office by
writing addressed to the President;
(c) upon such member being removed from office on
any ground specified in subsection (3) ; or
(d) on the expiration of the term of the Commission
and the consequent expiration of a member’s term
of office.
(3) A member of the Commission may be removed from
office, by the President with the concurrence of the
Constitutional Council, if such person –
Term of
office and
removal of
members

<!-- page 6 -->

5Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
5
10
15
20
25
(a) is or becomes a member of Parliament, or a member
of any Provincial Council or any Local Authority;
(b) is adjudged an insolvent by a court of competent
jurisdiction;
(c) is found to have a conflict of interest with his duties
as a member of the Commission;
(d) is medically certified to be unfit to continue in
office by reason of infirmity of mind or body;
(e) is declared to be of unsound mind by a court of
competent jurisdiction;
(f) is convicted for a criminal offence by a court of
law;
(g) absents himself from three consecutive meetings
without obtaining leave of the Commission; or
(h) is unable to perform the duties of office for a
continuous period exceeding three months.
(4) The Chairperson may resign from the office of
Chairperson by letter addressed to the President.
(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), the term of
office of the Chairperson shall be the term of the Commission
in terms of section 9.
(6) If the Chairperson of the Commission becomes
temporarily unable to perform the duties of office by reason
of illness or other infirmity, or absence from Sri Lanka, or
any other such reason, the President may appoint any other
member of the Commission to act in his place until the
Chairperson is able to resume office:

<!-- page 7 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
6
5
10
15
20
25
Provided however, the members of the Commission
shall select a member from amongst themselves to act in
such position until the President appoints any other member
to act in his place.
(7) If a Member of the Commission becomes temporarily
unable to perform the duties of office by reason of illness or
other infirmity, or absence from Sri Lanka, or any other such
reason, the President may appoint any other person to act in
his place until such member is able to resume office.
(8) The provisions of section 3 shall mutatis mutandis
apply in respect of acting appointments made in terms of
subsections (6) and (7) of this section.
(9) No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy among its members, or defect in the appointment of
any member thereof.
5. The Chairperson and at least three other members of
the Commission shall work full time.  The Constitutional
Council shall designate, which of the members are appointed
on full time basis.
6. The Commission shall appoint an “information officer”
and a “designated officer” for the purpose of the Right to
Information Act, No. 12 of 2016.
7. (1) The Commission shall conduct sittings as provided
in subsection (5) of section 2 to receive, obtain and collect
information and material in respect of the matters referred to
in section 12.
(2) The Commission shall undertake investigations and
inquiries by panels consisting of not less than three members
Full time
members
Information
officer and
designated
officer
Sittings of
the
commission

<!-- page 8 -->

7Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
5
10
15
20
25
of the Commission. The members shall be assigned to the
panels by the Chairperson of the Commission. One member
of such panel shall be designated as the Chairperson of the
panel by the Chairperson of the Commission.
(3) All sittings of the Commission shall, subject to the
provisions of subsection (4), be held in public, and all persons
shall be entitled freely to attend such sittings.
(4) The Commission may, in its discretion, whenever it
considers it desirable, including -
(a) in proceedings relating to sexual matters;
(b) in the interests of national security or public safety;
(c) in the interest of personal security of any person;
(d) in the interest of guaranteeing confidentiality or
creating an enabling environment for truth telling;
(e) in the interests of maintaining order and security
within the precincts of the Commission; or
(f) where there is a risk of prejudice being caused to
any ongoing or prospective legal proceedings,
exclude therefrom such persons as are not directly interested
or involved in proceedings therein, or such other persons as
the Commission may deem it necessary to exclude,
particularly in the interest of the personal security of any
person.
(5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, where the Commission conducts closed sittings,
as referred to in subsection (4)  or receives information, the

<!-- page 9 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
8
5
10
15
20
25
publication of which is likely to threaten the security of any
person or compromise national security or public safety,
such information or any part thereof shall not be made public
in any manner, and no person shall, in any manner disclose
such information to any other party, that was not privy to
the said closed sittings:
Provided however, the Commission may publish a record
of proceedings of such sittings or information after redacting
such portions thereof as necessary to protect the security or
interests of any person or national security or public safety.
(6) The Commission shall conduct its proceedings in
Sinhala and Tamil, or English as deemed necessary. The
Commission shall provide simultaneous interpretations or
translations into Sinhala, Tamil or English as it deems
necessary. Where necessary, the Commission may
additionally use sign language to assist those with hearing
impairment, who engage in the proceedings of the
Commission.
(7) All proceedings of the Commission shall be recorded
verbatim in writing, as well as by way of audio, or audio-
visual recordings.
 8. (1) The members of the Commission shall meet, at
least once every fortnight to consider and deliberate on the
business and affairs of the Commission:
Provided that, any member unable to attend a meeting
in person may participate at such meetings by means of
telephone or video link or by means of other such
technological facilities.
(2) The Chairperson of the Commission shall preside at
all meetings of the Commission. In the event of the absence
Meetings of
the
Commission
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
5
10
15
20
25
of the Chairperson from any meeting, the members of the
Commission present at such meeting shall appoint one from
amongst themselves to preside at such meeting.
(3) The quorum for meetings or sittings of the Commission
shall be the majority of the total number of members
appointed for the time being of the Commission, which shall,
in any event be not less than five members.
(4) A decision on any matter before the Commission shall
be by a majority of votes of the members present. In the case
of an equality of votes, the Chairperson or the member
presiding at such meeting shall have a casting vote in
addition to an individual vote.
(5) The Commission shall cause minutes of all proceedings
of its meetings to be entered in records maintained for that
purpose.
(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission
may regulate the procedure in regard to the conduct of
meetings and sittings of the Commission, the transaction of
business and affairs of the Commission, and subject to the
law, the disciplinary procedure relating to its officers and
staff.
9. Subject to the provisions of section 51, the term of the
Commission shall be five years from the appointed date:
Provided however, the term of the Commission may
be extended by the President in concurrence with the
Constitutional Council, if the President deems such
extension to be necessary, for a further period of one year at
a time, so however, the aggregate period of such extension
shall not exceed two years.
Term of the
Commission

<!-- page 11 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
10
5
10
15
20
25
10. From the date of establishment and throughout its
existence the Commission shall take all appropriate measures
to inform the public of its existence and its objectives.
11. In the performance of its functions under this Act, the
Commission shall be considered an autonomous institution
and shall not be subject to the control or direction of any
person or authority.
PART II
O
BJECTIVES AND MANDATE OF THE COMMISSION
12. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written
law, the Commission shall investigate, inquire, and make
recommendations in respect of complaints or allegations or
reports submitted in context with any written law relating to
damage or harm caused to persons or property, loss of life or
alleged violation of fundamental rights anywhere in Sri
Lanka, which were caused in the course of, or reasonably
connected to, or consequent to the conflict which took place
in the Northern and Eastern Provinces during the period
1983 to 2009, or its aftermath.
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), the
mandate of the Commission include s the following:-
(a) the promotion of truth telling, national unity, peace,
rule of law, co-existence, equality with tolerance
and respect for diversity, and reconciliation among
the people of Sri Lanka, by establishing a truthful,
accurate, impartial, complete record of the alleged
damage or harm caused to persons or property loss
of life or alleged violation of fundamental rights
referred to in subsection (1);
Duty to
inform the
public
Commission
not subject to
control or
direction
Objectives
and mandate
of the
Commission

<!-- page 12 -->

11Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
30
5
10
15
20
25
(b) investigation and making recommendations in
respect of the causes of the alleged damage or harm
caused to persons or property, loss of life or alleged
violation of fundamental rights referred to in
subsection (1) to the fullest degree possible, in the
interest of prevention of the future occurrence of
thereof;
(c) helping restore the dignity of aggrieved persons by
providing an opportunity for them to give an
account of the alleged damage or harm caused to
persons or property, loss of life or alleged violation
of fundamental rights referred to in subsection (1),
giving special attention to the experiences of
women, children and persons with disability;
(d) providing the people of Sri Lanka with a platform
and opportunity for truth telling and relating their
narratives, including positive experiences and
providing them the necessary protection;
(e) recommending, ways and means of effective
remedies for aggrieved persons and diverse
reparation measures in respect of them, including
by the referral of matters to the Office for
Reparations, Office on Missing Persons, Office for
National Unity and Reconciliation and the National
Authority for the Protection of Victims of Crime
and Witnesses;
(f) making recommendations with regard to
institutional, administrative and legislative policy
and resource allocation measures that should be
taken or introduced to prevent, and ensure

<!-- page 13 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
12
5
10
15
20
25
non-recurrence of the alleged damage or harm
caused to persons or property, loss of life or alleged
violation of fundamental rights  referred to in
subsection (1), and to promote reconciliation;
(g) compiling a report providing as comprehensive an
account of the activities, investigations and
recommendations of the Commission, including-
(i) recording of positive experiences of
aggrieved persons and the potential to use
them towards non-recurrence of alleged
damage or harm caused to persons or property
or alleged violation of fundamental rights
referred to in subsection (1);
(ii) general recommendations on measures to
prevent the future occurrence of the alleged
damage or harm caused to persons or property,
loss of life or alleged violation of
fundamental rights referred to in subsection
(1), including recommendations on
promotion of reconciliation, co-existence
among diverse communities, good
governance, justice, respect for the rule of
law and combating impunity; and
(iii) the Commission’s investigations and
recommendations in respect of allegations of
violation of fundamental rights including the
economic and social rights and making
recommendations on how to address such
issues;

<!-- page 14 -->

13Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
5
10
15
20
25
(h) investigating and making recommendations in
respect of the allegations of damage or harm caused
to persons or property or loss of life or alleged
violation of fundamental  rights referred to in
subsection (1), including-
(i) acts or omissions resulting in the arbitrary
deprivation of human life or any attempt
thereto, extrajudicial killings, assassinations
and mass murders;
(ii) acts of torture, cruel, inhumane and
degrading treatment;
(iii) sexual violence, abuse and exploitation of
persons, with due regard to particular
experiences of women, children, persons with
disability, detainees and prisoners;
(iv) abduc tion, hostage taking, enforced
disappearances;
(v) arbitrary or unlawful arrests or detentions;
(vi) fact finding in respect of alleged corruption
and intentional misuse of equipment and
financial resources in relation to the conflict
which took place in the Northern and Eastern
provinces that contributed to the loss of life
or grave risk of loss of life of persons,
including members of the armed forces, the
Police and civil defence personnel of Sri
Lanka;

<!-- page 15 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
14
5
10
15
20
25
(vii) fact finding in respect of the incidence of
recruitment of children into armed groups
connected with the conflict which took place
in the Northern and Eastern provinces or its
aftermath;
(viii) fact finding in respect of allegations of
forcible transfer or displacement of persons
or populations within Sri Lanka;
(ix) fact finding in respect of allegations of
arbitrary or unlawful deprivation of property,
whether temporary or permanent;
(x) fact finding into the existence, if any, of
practices that have led to discriminatory
treatment or violations of individual rights
based on religion, ethnicity, gender, place of
origin, political opinion, language or caste;
(xi) fact finding into whether any of the alleged
violations and abuses referred to in subsection
(1) were committed as part of systemic crimes;
and
(xii) fact finding in regard to those responsible
for the commission of the alleged violations
and abuses referred to in subsection (1),
including those who advised, planned,
directed, commanded or ordered such
atrocities;
(i) making recommendations regarding schemes to
empower affected communities by providing peace
building and conflict transformation and livelihood
training opportunities by those qualified to do so;
30

<!-- page 16 -->

15Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
5
10
15
20
25
(j) making recommendations regarding the non-
recurrence of, and addressing the root causes for-
(i) the alleged damage or harm caused to persons
or property or loss of life or alleged violation
of fundamental rights referred to in
subsection (1);
(ii) any conflict amongst the different ethnic or
religious groups in Sri Lanka;
(k) creating awareness among the public of the
objective of this Act and the recourse available;
and
(l) compiling comprehensive reports of the
activities, investigations, implementations and
recommendations of the Commission.
PART III
P
OWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION
13. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, the Commission may exercise any or all of the
following powers for the purpose of discharging its
functions:-
(a) to prepare its own internal regulations, procedures
and guidelines setting out in particular its structure
and administrative arrangements;
(b) to make guidelines or by-laws, including
formulating gender-sensitive policies, to be
followed by all staff of the Commission concerning
the performance of duties and functions;
Powers of the
Commission

<!-- page 17 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
16
5
10
15
20
25
(c) to appoint staff, the composition of which shall
reflect the pluralistic nature of Sri Lanka, including
gender, and to provide training facilities to them as
relevant to the work of the Commission. The
Commission may request secondment of public
officers to the Commission;
(d) to dismiss staff for good cause;
(e) to establish committees, units or divisions in
addition to those units and divisions specifically
mentioned in this Act, to perform duties and
functions of the Commission;
(f) to delegate powers to such committees, units,
divisions or individuals appointed by the
Commission as appropriate and necessary;
(g) to enter into agreements with any person or entity
necessary to achieve the objectives of the
Commission including Office on Missing Persons,
Office for Reparations, Office for National Unity
and Reconciliation, the National Authority for the
Protection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses and
the Department of National Archives;
(h) to raise funds in order to achieve the objectives of
the Commission, including but not limited to
obtaining any grants, gifts or endowments:
Provided that, all funds received from outside
Sri Lanka shall be channelled through the External
Resources Department;
(i) to open and maintain bank accounts;

<!-- page 18 -->

17Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
5
10
20
25
(j) to control, supervise and administer the assets of
the Commission;
(k) to seek technical assistance from any person or
institution or organisation in the interest of
advancement of the Commission’s work;
(l) to draw on the work of other bodies, including
previous Commissions of Inquiry;
(m) to prioritize proceedings with the objective of
promoting national reconciliation, peace,
co-existence and non-recurrence within the context
of this Act;
(n) subject to subsection (3) of section 7, to conduct
public sittings and when the Commission considers
it possible publicly broadcast or telecast its
proceedings either simultaneously or otherwise;
(o) subject to subsection (4) of section 7 to conduct
closed sittings where the Commission deems it
necessary;
(p) to create a complete database and to take steps to
maintain and to ensure the deposit and maintenance
of all material collected by the Commission and
reports of the Commission in such database and
thereafter submit the same to the Department of
National Archives for the purpose of archiving;
(q) to receive from any aggrieved persons complaints
or reports relating to the alleged damage or harm
caused to persons or property referred to in
subsection (1) of section 12;
15

<!-- page 19 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
18
5
10
15
20
25
(r) to initiate, on its own motion or on a complaint
made to it by an aggrieved person or group of
persons or a person acting on behalf of an aggrieved
person or a group of persons, and investigations in
respect of alleged damage or harm caused to persons
or property, or violations of fundamental rights,
referred to in subsection (1) of section 12;
(s) to gather any information that the Commission
considers relevant to fulfilling its mandate,
including requisition of reports, records, documents
or information from governmental authorities or
any source and to compel the production of such
material as and when necessary, including through
access to archival material and classified
documentation;
(t) to summon any person residing in Sri Lanka, to
attend any meeting or hearing of the Commission
to provide information or produce any document
or other thing in such person’s possession;
(u) to procure and receive all such material, written or
oral, and to interview all such persons as the
Commission deems necessary, or require such
persons to produce any document or other thing in
their possession;
(v) to require evidence (whether written or oral) of any
witness, to be given on oath or affirmation, and to
administer and cause to be administered by an
officer authorized in that behalf by the Commission
on oath or affirmation to every such witness;

<!-- page 20 -->

19Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
5
10
15
20
25
30
(w) to request assistance necessary for the achieving of
its mandate, from any State, Governmental,
provincial or local authority or agency, or any
officer thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in any other written law, any such
authority, agency or officer to which a request for
assistance is made by the Commission shall
forthwith render such assistance. Such assistance
shall include but not be limited to providing
information, documents or any other thing, in the
possession or custody of such authority, agency or
officer, or access to such places as the Commission
may determine necessary to visit;
(x) to receive information in confidence from any
person, where essential for truth seeking and only
under exceptional circumstances, where in the
opinion of the Commission, the disclosure of such
information would pose a risk or threat to life or
security of any person:
Provided that, except in the performance of
official responsibilities under this Act, every
member, officer, servant or consultant of the
Commission shall preserve and aid in preserving
confidentiality of such information:
Provided further, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in any other law, the Commission shall
not be compelled to disclose the identity of any
person supplying information in confidence to the
Commission, or any part of such information that
would reveal the identity of such person, where in
the opinion of the Commission, the disclosure of
such information would pose a risk or threat to life
or security of any person;

<!-- page 21 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
20
5
10
15
20
25
(y) to admit, notwithstanding any of the provisions of
the Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 14), any
information, whether written or oral, which might
be inadmissible in civil or criminal proceedings in
order to facilitate truth seeking;
(z) to make an application to a Magistrate having
jurisdiction, for the issuance of a search warrant, to
enable the Police, to search any premises suspected
to contain material relevant to an investigation
being conducted by the Commission. The
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis  apply in
such instances;
(za) to search and inspect identified premises under the
authority of a search warrant issued by a Magistrate,
and examine, make copies of, extract from, seize
and retain, any object that is deemed necessary for
any investigation being conducted by the
Commission and to ensure that any such site that
may have been allegedly used for torture or illegal
places of detention are located and preserved. The
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis  apply in
such instances;
(zb) to seek the assistance of the Sri Lanka Police as
necessary to advance the investigations of the
Commission;
(zc) to make an application to a Magistrate, having
jurisdiction, to excavate sites of suspected graves
or mass graves and to act as observers at such
excavations or exhumations. The provisions of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
shall, mutatis mutandis  apply in such instances;
30

<!-- page 22 -->

21Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
5
10
15
20
(zd) to refer matters to the relevant law enforcement or
prosecuting authorities of Sri Lanka for further
investigation and necessary action, where it appears
to the Commission that an offence or offences
punishable under the Penal Code (Chapter 19),
Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393), Office
on Missing Persons (Establishment, Administration
and Discharge of Functions) Act, No. 14 of 2016 or
any other law of Sri Lanka has been committed,
subject to the provisions of paragraph ( y);
(ze) to obtain assistance from the Government of Sri
Lanka to secure cooperation from authorities of
foreign states in terms of the Mutual Legal
Assistance in Criminal Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002
to access information available overseas;
(zf) to seek assistance from community leaders and
organisations to facilitate its public sessions and in
resolving local conflicts in support of
reconciliation and non-recurrence as the
Commission may deem necessary; and
(zg) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, to do all such things as necessary
to achieving the objectives and mandate of the
Commission.
14. All persons including members of the Government,
public officials and authorities shall co-operate with the
Commission and its staff in the fulfillment of the
Commission’s objectives and mandate under this Act.
All persons
shall
co-operate
with the
Commission
25

<!-- page 23 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
22
5
10
15
20
25
PART IV
REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE COMMISSION
15. (1) The Commission shall submit its final report to
the President not later than the date of expiration of its term
in terms of the provisions of section 9, containing a
comprehensive account of its activities, including its
recommendations.
(2) The Commission shall submit interim reports
bi-annually with recommendations prior to the submission
of its final report, following a sustained period of
investigations, detailing the work of the Commission. Such
Interim Reports shall be submitted to the President.
(3) Immediately upon submitting the final report and such
interim reports as provided for under subsections (1) and (2)
to the President, the Commission shall publish all such
reports, without prejudice to the power to withhold any
information that may affect national security, using print
and electronic media, and shall make copies of the reports
or summaries thereof, widely available to the public in
Sinhala, Tamil and English languages. The Commission
shall ensure wide publicity for its recommendations, by
involving inter alia , the media.
(4) The final report of the Commission shall include -
(a) root causes of the alleged damage or harm
caused to persons or property or loss of life,
described in section 12;
(b) observations of the Commission  on alleged
damage or harm or loss of life caused to persons
or property described in section 12;
Reports  of
the
Commission

<!-- page 24 -->

23Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
(c) recommendations addressing issues relating
to women and children;
(d) observations and recommendations on child
soldiers, and their recovery and reintegration;
(e) recommendations relating to forced
displacement of persons or groups of persons
within Sri Lanka;
(f) recommendations for, inter alia, legal,
political, socio-economic reforms, including
in particular education, health, cultural,
administrative and institutional reforms
deemed necessary for non-recurrence; and
(g) recommendations on reparations, including
psycho-social support, while identifying priorities.
(5) Within twenty-one days from the date of an interim
report or the final report of the Commission in terms of
subsections (1) and (2), the President shall have such reports
tabled in Parliament.
16. (1) The Commission’s recommendations shall not be
deemed to be a determination of civil or criminal liability of
any person.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 or any other law,
it shall be lawful for the Attorney-General to institute
criminal proceedings in a designated court of law in respect
of any offence based on material collected in the course of
an investigation or inquiry or both, as the case may be, by
the Commission established under this Act.
Recommendations
of the
Commission
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 25 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
24
(3)  Parliament may take cognizance of the
recommendations of the Commission or a panel of the
Commission contained in its interim reports or final report
submitted to the President and tabled in Parliament, as the
case may be, and pass such resolution it may consider
necessary to promote national unity and reconciliation.
PART V
P
ROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS OF AGGRIEVED PERSONS AND
WITNESSES
17. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, the Commission shall develop and enforce a
system for the protection of aggrieved persons and witnesses.
18. (1) The Commission shall recommend the granting of
material or symbolic reparations to individual aggrieved
persons and witnesses who engage with the Commission,
and who are entitled in the opinion of the Commission to
such reparations, including but not limited to restitution,
financial compensation, welfare services and rehabilitation.
(2) The Commission shall also recommend that collective
reparations be granted in order to facilitate reconciliation
and non-recurrence.
(3) The Commission may direct its recommendations to
the appropriate authorities, including to the Office for
Reparations and National Authority for the Protection of
Victims of Crime and Witnesses.
19. The Commission shall prioritize and facilitate the
provision of medical and psycho-social support to aggrieved
persons and witnesses during the proceedings of the
Commission, when in the opinion of the Commission, such
services are required, including by –
Protection
for aggrieved
persons and
witnesses
Reparations
Medical and
psycho-social
support
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 26 -->

25Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
(a) providing psychosocial training for all staff members
of the Commission to enable efficient handling of aggrieved
persons and witnesses;
(b) provision of onsite psychosocial counselors at all
public or closed sittings with aggrieved persons and
witnesses; and
(c) conducting psychosocial briefings and debriefings or
evaluations for aggrieved persons and witnesses as necessary
prior to public or closed sittings to ensure that aggrieved
persons are psychologically prepared, addressing in
particular the needs of children, women and persons with
disability.
20. (1) The Commission shall take measures to protect
the identity or ensure the safety and protection of aggrieved
persons and witnesses, who in the opinion of the Commission
require such protective measures.
(2) The Commission shall in particular ensure that
statements of children are obtained in closed proceedings
and information leading to the identity of children are
removed or redacted from public transcripts and their
confidentiality duly protected.
(3) The Commission shall, upon a request by a child or
by his or her guardian, afford such child the option of either
submitting a video recording of his or her statement to the
Commission, or appearing before the Commission via audio-
visual link, in lieu of appearing in person before the
Commission.
 21. The Commission shall endeavor as far as practicable
to conduct its sittings in such locations and in such form to
enable easy access to aggrieved persons and witnesses,
especially addressing the needs of women, children and
persons with disability.
Protective
measures
Access for
aggrieved
persons and
witnesses
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 27 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
26
22. The Commission may provide funding for the travel
of witnesses or persons summoned by the Commission, at
the discretion of the Commission.
 23. The Commission shall inform aggrieved persons,
witnesses and other informants, who provide information to
the Commission, of the potential use of any information
provided by them and their right to directly refer matters to
relevant authorities, including their right to report serious
crimes to the relevant law enforcement or prosecuting
authorities of Sri Lanka and of the availability of any
mechanisms through which they may make claims for
administrative relief.
24.  In exercising its powers under this Act, the
Commission shall ensure that the rights of aggrieved persons,
witnesses and any other persons shall be enforced on a basis
of equality without regard to status and without
discrimination on any grounds whatsoever.
PART VI
T
HE SECRETARIAT AND THE DIRECTOR GENERAL
 25. The Commission shall have a Secretariat which shall
be charged with the responsibility for the administration of
the affairs of the Commission. The Secretariat shall include,
the Victim and Witness Protection Division and the Data
Management Division and such other division as the
Commission may consider necessary.
26. (1) The President shall, in consultation with the
Commission, appoint a person with suitable academic and
professional qualifications and work experience as the
5
10
15
20
25
Funding for
travel of
witnesses
Duty to
inform
people of
their rights
and potential
use of their
information
Duty to
ensure the
rights of
aggrieved
persons, and
any other
person
without
discrimination
Secretariat
Director
General

<!-- page 28 -->

27Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
Director General of the Commission, who shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Secretariat and who shall be subject
to the authority of the Commission and report to the
Commission.
(2) The President may, in consultation with the
Commission, remove the Director General for good cause.
(3) The Director General shall be responsible for the
management and administration of the business and affairs
of the Commission, including but not limited to the
following functions:-
(a) day to day management and administration of the
business and affairs of the Commission;
(b) maintaining custody and preservation of all
records, documents and materials of the
Commission;
(c) management of the assets of the Commission; and
(d) performance of such other duties as may be assigned
by the Commission from time to time.
 27. (1) All divisions of the Secretariat, unless otherwise
provided for by the Commission, shall be under the purview
of the Director General of the Commission.
(2) All officers and staff of such divisions shall be
appointed by the Commission, and shall be full-time
employees of the Commission, unless otherwise decided by
the Director General and approved by the Commission.
(3) All such officers and staff shall be removed by the
Commission only for good cause.
5
10
15
20
25
All Divisions
to be under
the purview
of the
Director
General

<!-- page 29 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
28
(4) The officers and staff of all such divisions shall reflect
the pluralistic nature of Sri Lanka, including gender.
28. (1) There shall be a Victim and Witness Protection
Division that shall assist the Commission in developing
and enforcing a system for aggrieved persons and witness
protection, and in particular in the discharge of the
Commission’s duties and responsibilities under sections 17,
18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 of this Act.
(2) The Victim and Witness Protection Division shall
facilitate the provision of personal security, psychosocial
support and the protection of the rights of all aggrieved
persons and, witnesses who engage with the Commission,
and also endeavour to provide or facilitate the provision of
administrative and welfare services requested by such
persons.
(3) The Victim and Witness Protection Division shall be
fully supported by the National Authority for the Protection
of Victims of Crime and Witnesses established under the
Assistance to and Protection of Victims of Crime and
Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023.  The Commission shall be
deemed to be a “Commission” for purposes of the Assistance
to and Protection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses Act,
No. 10 of 2023.
(4) The Victim and Witness Protection Division may co-
ordinate with law enforcement agencies where it deems
necessary.
29. (1) There shall be a Data Management Division, which
shall be responsible for the creation, maintenance and
management of the Database of the Commission.
5
10
15
20
25
Victim and
Witness
Protection
Division
Data
Management
Division

<!-- page 30 -->

29Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
(2) The Data Management Division shall take all
necessary steps, including technical safeguards in
conformity with the applicable laws to ensure the security
of all its databases and data, and take all necessary measures
to ensure the storing of materials, preservation of records
and maintenance of a database and institutional memory.
The Data Management Division shall at all times ensure the
protection of confidentiality of information gathered on such
basis.
30.  In addition to the above-named divisions, the
Commission may appoint or establish specific mechanisms
and procedures to address the experiences and specific
requirements of women, children, persons with disabilities,
and disadvantaged groups, as well as advisors with relevant
expertise to advise the Commission on specific disciplines,
subjects or issues as it deems fit.
31. The Commission may issue directions and instructions
to the divisions and units of the Commission directly or
seek their advice directly as it deems fit.
32. (1) There shall be established an Advisory Panel for
the purpose of advising the Commission, the panels of the
Commission and the Secretariat on matters referred to the
Advisory Panel by the Commission.
(2) The Advisory Panel shall consist of a minimum of ten
members appointed by the President on the recommendation
of the Commission. The members so appointed to the
Advisory Panel shall consist of persons with recognised
integrity, empathy, stature and respect with a demonstrated
commitment to the values of truth, reconciliation, equity,
and justice, and may include competent persons from any
other jurisdiction.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Specific
mechanisms
and advisors
The
Commission
may issue
directions
Advisory
Panel

<!-- page 31 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
30
(3) The Commission shall, prior to the submission of the
draft interim and final reports of the Commission to the
President, make the same available to the Advisory Panel
for its comments or recommendations for the consideration
of the Commission.
(4) The remuneration payable to and the terms of
engagement of the members of the Advisory Panel shall be
decided by the President, on the recommendation of the
Commission.
PART VII
FINANCE
33. The State shall provide the Commission with
adequate funds to enable the Commission to discharge the
functions assigned to it by this Act. Such funds shall be
charged on the Consolidated Fund.
 34. The Commission shall commence with an initial
capital of financial resources required for its work and such
amount of this initial capital shall be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund and shall be credited to the Fund
established under section 35.
35. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund. There
shall be credited to the Fund of the Commission —
(a) money received from the Consolidated Fund, as
initial capital of the Commission;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Commission in the discharge of its functions;
Funding of
the
Commission
Initial capital
Fund of the
Commission
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 32 -->

31Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
(c) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Commission by way of donations, gifts or grants
from any lawful source:
Provided that, such funds received from
outside Sri Lanka are channeled through the
Department of External Resources; and
(d) all funds raised by the Commission in terms of
paragraph (h) of section 13.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commission
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Commission in the discharge of
its functions under this Act.
 36. The salaries of the members of the Commission shall
be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers and shall be
charged on the Consolidated Fund and shall not be
diminished during their terms of office.
37. The Commission shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, and assets and liabilities.
The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the
Auditor-General in terms of Article 154 of the Constitution.
38. The Commission shall submit annual reports of the
Commission’s accounts to Parliament, which shall be
simultaneously published and disseminated to the public
including through electronic media and internet.
Remuneration
of the
members
Accounts of
the
Commission
Annual
Reports
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 33 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
32
PART VIII
THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COMMISSION’S RECOMMENDATIONS
39. Within one month from the date of publication of the
first interim report or the making of interim recommendations
by the Commission, the President shall establish a
Monitoring Committee to monitor and facilitate the
implementation of the recommendations of the Commission
(hereinafter referred to as the “Committee”). The President
shall, in consultation with the Constitutional Council,
specify the term of office of the Committee and may renew
such term as deemed necessary.
40. (1) The Committee, shall consist of eleven persons,
appointed by the President, of whom -
(a) five persons shall be the following ex-officio
members :-
(i) Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Finance or his
nominee;
(ii) Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Justice, Law and Order
or his nominee;
(iii) Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Defence or his
nominee;
(iv) Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Public Administration
or his nominee;
Composition
of the
Committee &
C.
5
10
15
20
25
Implementation
of the
recommendations
of the
Commission

<!-- page 34 -->

33Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
(v) Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Women, Child affairs
and Social Empowerment or his nominee; and
(b) six other persons who shall be citizens of Sri Lanka
appointed on the recommendation of the
Constitutional Council.
(2) The composition of the Committee shall reflect a
gender balance and the pluralistic nature of Sri Lanka, and
all members of the Committee shall be persons of integrity
and credibility appointed on the basis of knowledge,
practical experience and qualifications relevant to the
carrying out of functions of the Commission.
(3) The members referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) shall be appointed for a period of three years and shall be
eligible for reappointment.
(4) The remuneration of the members appointed under
paragraph ( b) of subsection (1) shall be determined by the
Cabinet of Ministers.
(5) The provisions of subsections (3), (4) and (5) of section
3, shall, mutatis mutandis apply in respect of appointments
to the Committee.
(6) In carrying out its work, the Committee shall liaise
with Government ministries, departments, organisations or
any person as it deems necessary, and such entities or person
shall provide the Committee with the required support and
assistance.
(7) The Government shall provide the Committee with
adequate resources to fulfill their responsibilities in
monitoring and facilitating the implementation of the
recommendations of the Commission.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 35 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
34
(8) The office of a member of the Committee shall become
vacant –
(a) upon removal from office by the President with the
approval of the Constitutional Council for good
cause;
(b) upon the death of such member;
(c) upon such member resigning from such office by
writing addressed to the President; or
(d) on the expiration of the term of the Committee and
the consequent expiration of a member’s term of
office.
(9) The Committee shall submit biannual reports to the
President every six months, evaluating the efforts of the
Government and the efforts of any other person or body
concerned to implement the recommendations of the
Commission and other previous Commissions of Inquiry
and the President shall table such reports in Parliament not
later than two weeks from the receipt of such report. The
Committee shall make copies of such reports available to
the public in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.
(10) Where the implementation of any recommendation
has not been fully complied with, the reports of the
Committee shall include the reasons for non-implementation
as provided by the persons or organisations responsible for
the implementation thereof.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 36 -->

35Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
PART IX
GENERAL
41. The members of the Commission (for the limited
purpose of their functions under the Act) and the officers
and staff of the Commission shall be deemed to be “public
officers” for the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19),
the Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023 and the Evidence
Ordinance (Chapter 14).
42. The Commission shall be deemed to be a “scheduled
institution” within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act,
No. 9 of 2023, and the provisions of that Act shall be
construed accordingly.
43. No member of the Commission or officer or member
of the staff of the Commission shall make private use of, or
profit from, any confidential information gained as a result
of such member’s work in the Commission, or divulge such
information to any other person except in the course of his
functions as a member of the Commission or officer or
member of the staff of the Commission. This obligation shall
survive the expiration of the term of the Commission.
44. Each Member of the Commission or officer or member
of the staff of the Commission shall act impartially and
without conflict of interest.  Accordingly, such member,
officer or staff member shall avoid taking any action which
could create an appearance of partiality or undermine the
integrity of the Commission.
Members of
the
Commission
to be deemed
public
officers
Commission
to be deemed
a scheduled
institution
under Anti-
Corruption
Act
Prohibition
on using
information
for private
use
Members and
staff to be
non-partisan
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 37 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
36
45. (1) If any person –
(a) fails without cause to appear before the
Commission pursuant to summons issued by the
Commission;
(b) refuses without cause to answer any question
put to him by the Commission;
(c) refuses or fails without cause to comply with the
requirements of a notice or written order or
direction issued or made to him, by the
Commission;
(d) upon whom a summons is served, refuses or fails
without cause to produce any document or other
thing, which is in his possession or control;
(e) resists or obstructs an officer authorized under
the Act in the exercise by that officer of the
powers conferred on him;
(f) knowingly hinders or obstructs the Commission
in the fulfillment or execution of its powers,
obligations and duties;
(g) performs any act aimed at improperly
influencing or interfering with the work of the
Commission;
(h) threatens, intimidates or improperly influences,
or attempts to threaten, intimidate or improperly
influence any person who has co-operated, or is
intending to cooperate with the Commission;
(i) discloses any confidential information in
contravention of the provisions of this Act;
(j) without reasonable excuse fails to comply with
any other order of the Commission;
5
10
15
20
25
Offences
30

<!-- page 38 -->

37Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
(k) if any person intentionally misleads the
Commission by providing false evidence or false
information; or
(l) contravenes the provisions of section 49,
such person shall be guilty of an offence of contempt against
the authority of the Commission.
(2) Where it appears that a person is guilty of an offence
of contempt, the Commission shall report such matter to the
Court of Appeal. Every offence of contempt committed
against the authority of the Commission shall be punishable
by the Court of Appeal as though it were an offence of
contempt committed against the Court of Appeal.
 46. (1) No order, decision, act or omission of the
Commission or any member, officer or servant thereof acting
in hereunder shall be questioned in any proceedings or any
court of law, save and except in proceedings under Articles
126 and 140 of the Constitution.
(2) The Writ jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appeal
by Article 140 of the Constitution in relation to any order,
decision, act or omission of the Commission, a panel of the
Commission or any member, officer or servant thereof, shall
be exercised by the Supreme Court and not the Court of
Appeal.
47. Subject to section 45  -
(a) no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be instituted
against any member of the Commission or any
officer or servant appointed to assist the
Special
immunity for
witnesses
Protection of
action
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 39 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
38
Commission, other than for contempt against the
authority of the Commission, for any act which in
good faith is done or omitted to be done, by him, as
such member or officer or servant;
(b) no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be instituted
against any member of the Commission in respect
of any report made in good faith by the Commission
under this Act or against any other person in respect
of the publication by such person of a true account
of such report; and
(c) no proceedings civil, or criminal, or administrative,
shall be instituted against any person consequent
to such person in good faith, providing evidence,
information or documentation to the Commission.
48. No evidence of any statement made or given by any
person to or before the Commission for the purposes of the
Commission shall be admissible against that person in any
action, prosecution, or other proceedings in any civil or
criminal court.
49. In the case of any inquiry into the disappearance of a
person or persons within the mandate of the Commission,
the Commission shall defer such investigation if requested
by the Office on Missing Persons, until such time when the
Commission could resume such investigation without
compromising the inquiries conducted by the Office on
Missing Persons.
50. (1) The Commission may make rules in respect of all
or any matter for which rules are authorised or required by
this Act to be made.
Commission
to defer
investigations
at the request
of the Office
on Missing
Persons
Rules
No evidence
shall be
admissible
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 40 -->

39Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
(2)  Every rule made under subsection (1) shall come into
force upon publication in the Gazette.
51. (1) The Commission shall stand dissolved at the end
of the term or three months after the submission of the final
report to the President.
(2) Before the Commission is dissolved, the Commission
shall take appropriate steps in consultation with the
Department of National Archives to archive its records for
possible future reference, giving due consideration to
measures that may be necessary to protect confidential
information and organize disposal of the remaining property
of the Commission.
52. The provisions of this Act shall apply notwithstanding
any provisions to the contrary in any other written law.
53. Unless the context otherwise requires, in this Act –
 “an aggrieved person” means-
(a) a victim who has suffered damage or harm
caused to persons as a result of loss of life,
or damage or harm caused to persons or
property, described under section 12; or
(b) relatives of a victim described under
paragraph ( a), provided such victim is
deceased, or a “missing person” as defined
under section 27 of the Office on Missing
Persons (Establishment, Administration
and Discharge of Functions) Act, No. 14
of 2016;
Provisions of
this Act to
prevail over
other law
Interpretation
5
10
15
20
25
Dissolution
of the
Commission

<!-- page 41 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
40
“children” mean persons under eighteen years of
age;
“damage or harm to persons” includes physical or
mental damage or harm;
“damage or harm to property” includes destruction,
damage, loss, or deprivation of property;
“Department of National Archives” means the
Department of National Archives established
under the National Archives Law, No. 48 of
1973;
“National Authority for the Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses” means the National
Authority for the Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses established under the
Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023;
“Office for National Unity and Reconciliation”
means the Office for National Unity and
Reconciliation established under the Office
for National Unity and Reconciliation Act,
No. 1 of 2024;
“Office for Reparations” means the Office for
Reparations established under the Office for
Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018;
“Office on Missing Persons” means the Office on
Missing Persons established under the Office
on Missing Persons (Establishment,
Administration and Discharge of Functions)
Act, No. 14 of 2016; and
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 42 -->

41Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of any
inconsistency
“relatives” in relation to a deceased victim or a
missing person include the following:-
(a) spouse;
(b) children;
(c) parents;
(d) brothers or sisters;
(e) parents-in law, brothers or sisters-in law,
sons or daughters in- law;
(f) grandchildren and grandparents.
54. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
5
10

<!-- page 43 -->

Commission for Truth, Unity and
Reconciliation in Sri Lanka
42
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING