

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 07.03.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2061$29 - 2018 ud¾;= ui 07 jeks nodod - 2018'03'07
No. 2061/29  - WEDNESDAY,  MARCH  07,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
 PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No. : IR/21/59/2009.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom the
Industrial Dispute which has arisen between Lake House
Employees' Union, No. 35, D. R. Wijewardena, Mawatha,
Lake House, Colombo 10 (on behalf of 144 Employees), Sri
Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya, Lake House Branch, No.
35, D. R. Wijewardena, Mawatha, Lake House, Colombo 10
(On behalf  of 1030 Employees) of the one part and The
Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Limited, No. 35, D. R.
Wijewardena, Mawatha, Lake House, Colombo 10 of  the
other part was referred by order dated 26.08.2014 made
under Section 4(1) of the Industrial Dispute Act, Chapter
131 (as amended) and published in the Gazette Extraordinary
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  No. 1881/3
dated 22.09.2014 for Settlement by Arbitration is hereby
published in terms of Section 18(1) of the said Act.
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, Colombo 05.
27th February, 2018.
Ref  No. : IR/21/59/2009.
In  the  matter  of  an Industrial  Dispute
Between
1. Lake House Employees' Union,
No. 35, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Lake House, Colombo 10.
(On behalf of 144 Employees)
2. Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya,
Lake House Branch,
No. 35, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Lake House, Colombo 10.
(On behalf of 1030 Employees)
of  the one Part.
Party of  the First Part.
And
The Associated Newspapers of  Ceylon
        Limited,
No. 35, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,
Lake House, Colombo 10.
of  the other Part.
Party of  the Second Part.
1A- G  27248 - 14  (03/2018)
Case No. A 3583

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 07.03.2018
AWARD
The Hon. Minister of Labour and Labour Relations
Gamini Lokuge do by virtue the powers vested in him by
Section 4 (1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of
the Legislative Enactments, of Ceylon (1956 Revised
Edition), as amended by Acts, No. 14 of 1957, 4 of 1962
and 39 of 1968 (read with Industrial Disputes- Special-
Provisions) Act,  No. 37 of 1968, appointed me as the
Arbitrator by his order dated 26.08.2014 and referred the
aforesaid dispute to me for settlement by Arbitration.
The statement of  the matter in dispute between the above
said parties is as follows :-
''Whether the 1174 employees mentioned in the
schedule, who were earlier paid the non- recurent cost of
living gratuity (NRCLG) based on the Colombo Consumer
Price Index (CCPI), have been caused injustice by ex-parte
cessation of the said allowance from 01.10.2009 and the
introduction of an Annual Lump Sum ; and if so to what
reliefs they are entitled.''
Appearance :
Mr. Lahiru Welgama Attorney - At- Law appears for
the Party of the First Part.
Mrs. Manoli Jinadasa with Rakhitha Abeygoonawardhana
Attorneys- At- Low appear for the party of the Second
Part.
After both parties mentioned above namely Lake House
Employees Union and Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya
(hereinafter referred to as the Union) and The Associated
Newspapers of Ceylon (hereinafter referred to as the
Company) have submitted their respective statements that
has led to the disputes in terms of Regulations 21 (1) and
(2) of the Industrial Disputes Regulations, 1958. I made
every endeavour to explore a possibility of an amicable
settlement which proved in futility.
In the circumstances I charged the Union to commence
proceedings and they led the evidence of Lankapeligedara
Dharmasiri- The General Secretary and Wickremaratne
Vithanalage  Gratiaen Sugith Kumar Fernando - Asst.
Electrical Superintendant marking documents A1 to A10,
while the Company adduced only the evidence of  Dhanapala
Mudiyanselage Dhanasena- Company's  Head of Fund
Management marking documents R1 to R11.
The factual background and  legal basis of the relief if
any claimed by the Union and the response given by the
Company need to be set out briefly.
The Union alleged that the Company has arbitrarily and
unilaterally stopped the payment of  Non- recurring Cost of
Living Allowance  (hereinafter called and referred to as the
NRCLG) from October 2009 by notice marked A4 (a) an
extract of this appended hereunder :-
''.... As you are aware payment in lieu  of the Non-
Recurring Cost of Living  Gratuity (NRCLG) is due in the
month of October, Although the practice of making this
payment based on the CCPI Index (Base Index of 1952)
continued over the years, the Department of Census and
Statistics has  currently done away with the official
publication of this index. Though the Company still receives
the index figures through the Ministry of Labour Relations
and Manpower, we have been informed by them that this
procedure is likely to be disconnected with effect from
December 2009.
Since there is no formal agreement to make the payment
of NRCLG based on any other basis, it has been decided
that in lieu of the lump sum NRCLG payment, a payment of
a sum of Rs 162,000/- will be made annually to every
employee who is currently in respect of this payment. A
monthly advance of Rs. 12,000/- (compared to
Rs. 11,000/- now paid as advance against NRCLG shall
accordingly be paid to employees entitled to this payment
with arrears to be paid in the month of October, In fact the
aforestated lump sum payment is higher than any NRCLG
payments made in the past history of ANCL. (The payment
made in 2008- 2009 is Rs. 158,766/- whilst the amount
was Rs. 147,212/- in 2007- 2008).
This payment as in the case of NRCLG shall not attract
any consequential benefits such EPF/ ETF, Overtime,
Gratuity etc. and shall henceforth be known as the ''Annual
Lump Sum in lieu of NRCLG'' This scheme will come into
effect on 01.10.2009 and the first advance in terms thereof
will be made to employees with their salaries in October
2009''
This year alone the Management has enhanced the take
home earnings of the employee on many occasions so far,
by providing a  Rs 1000/- increase to the basic
salaries from 1st January 2009.
by introducing a meal allowance of Rs. 60/- per
working day (approx Rs. 1200/- p. m.).
This increase of Rs. 1000/- ( i.e Rs. 11,000/- to
Rs. 12,000/-) to the monthly advance as payment
in lieu of NRCLG .''

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 07.03.2018
which the employees entitled as a fundamental allowance
for over a period of time and in terms of the collective
agreement marked as A1, it is crystal clear that the said
allowance had been given to employees as a fundamental
allowance from the very beginning (vide term 2 ^we&
COLLECTIVE    AGREEMENT    2006
A  ^we& ck yd ixnHdf,anK fomd¾;fïka;=fõ Ôjk
úhoï o¾Ylh ioyd oekg f.jkq ,nk tallhla i`oyd
re' 2'25 uqo, re' 2'35 olajd jeä lsÍug tl. fõ'
In response the Company look up the position that the
Department of Census and Statistics stopped declaring  the
cost of living index from the year 2008 which was the basic
figure to calculate the NRCLG and thus the Company could
not calculate the NRCLG latently realized the mode of
calculation was also wrong and that resulted in introducing a
New Scheme of paying Annual Lump Sum. (which  was paid
as fixed monthly installment with the balance being paid at
the end of 12 months - in the same pattern of payments as
the NRCLG), in the face of a practical difficulty to formulate
and calculate the NRCLG , due to the non publication of the
Gazette  Notification with the relevant index figures, is
completely just and equitable and also the employees have
accepted the new payment and to date are paid on the New
formula. No employee has rejected this payment and as such
the principles of Approbate and Reprobate apply and the party
of the First Part is not entitled to relief.
In fact evidence on record reveals that all employees have
accepted this payment and are receiving the same to date.
Mr. Lankapeligedara who was the main witness for the union
admitted in the cross examination in the proceedings of
25.05.2016 and the NRCLG was in fact not stopped but paid
under  a different name.
Obviously that as the Union has categorically admitted
that all employees (especially the 1174 names in the
schedule) accepted the Annual Lump Sum Payment
Rs. 162,000/- which was paid in lieu of NRLCG and is being
paid this amount to date, they are estopped in law from now
demanding the NRCLG. The principles of approbate and
reprobate applies squarely to this case. Taking the decided
case will enlighten the issue.
In Ceylon Plywoods Corporation v. Samastha Lanka
G . N. S. M. & Rajya Sanstha Sevaka Sangamaya (1992) 1
SLR 157
“The doctrine of approbate and reprobate (quod approbo
non reprobo) is based on the principle that no person can
accept and reject the same instrument.”
Scrution. L. J. observed in Verschures Creameries v. Hull
& Netherland Steamship Co. Ltd. (1921) 2 KB 608 at 612)
“A person cannot say at one time that a transactions is
valid and thereby obtain some advantage, to which he could
only be entitled on the footing that it is valid, and then turn
round and say it is void for the purpose of securing some
other advantage. This is to approbate and reprobate the
transactions. ”
As Sharvananda, C. J. observed in Ranasinghe v.
Premadharma (1985) 1 Sri LR 63 at page 70, the concept
has “stood the test of time and has been accepted as part of
our law”
It was further held that ;
“In cases where the doctrine of approbation and
reprobation applies, the person concerned has a choice of
two rights, either of which he is at liberty to adopt, but not
both. Where the doctrine does apply, if the person to whom
the choice belongs irrevocably and with full knowledge
accepts the one he cannot afterwards assert the other, he
cannot affirm and disaffirm.”
The Indian Supreme Court in their judgement of 14th
March 2014 in the case of State of Punjab and others V .
Dhanjit Singh Sandhu CIVIL  APPEAl Nos. 5698 5699 of
2009  discussing the applicability of the principle approbate
and reprobate to individuals held ;
It is settled proposition of law that once an order has been
passed, it is complied with, accepted by the other party and
derived the benefit out of it, he cannot challenge it on any
ground (Vide Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation
vs. Balwant Regular Motor Service Amravati & Ors. AIR 1969
SC 329) in R. N. Gosain vs. YashpalDhir, AIR 1993 SC 352, this
Court has observed asunder :-
“Laws does not permit a person to both approbate and
reprobate. This principle is based on the doctrine of election
which postulates that no party can accept and reject the same
instrument and that “a person cannot say at one time that a
transactions is vaild and thereby obtain some advantage, to
which he could only be entitled on the footing that it is vaild,
and then turn round and say it is void for the purpose of
securing some other advantage.”
This Court in Sro Babu Ram Alias Durga Prasad vs.
Sri Indra Pal Singh (Dead) by Lrs. AIR 1998 SC 3021, and
P. R. Deshpande vs. MarutiBalramHaibatti, AIR 1998 SC
2979, the Supreme Court has observed that the doctrine of
election is based on the rule of estoppel, the principle that

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 07.03.2018
one cannot approbate and reprobate is heres init . The
doctrine of estoppelp by election is one of the species of
estoppel in pais (or equitable estoppel), which is a rule
inequity. By that law, a person may be precluded by his
actions or conduct or silence when it is his duty to speak,
from asserting a right which he otherwise would have had.
The Supreme Court in The Rajasthan State Industrial
Development and Investment Corporation and Anr. vs.
Diamond and Gem Development Corporation Ltd. and Anr.,
AIR  2013 SC 1241, made an observation that a party cannot
be permitted to “blow hot and cold”, “Fast and loose” or
“approbate and reprobate”. Where one knowingly accepts
the benefits of a contract or conveyance or an order, is
estopped do deny the validity or binding effect on him of
such contract or conveyance or order. This rule is applied to
do equity, however, it must not be applied in a manner as to
violate the principles of right and good conscience.
It is evident that the doctrine of election is based on the
rule of estopped the principle that the one cannot approbate
an reprobate is inherent in it. The doctrine of estopped by
election is one among the species of estopped in pais
equitable estopped), which is a rule of equity, By this law, a
person may be precluded, by way of his actions, or conduct,
or silence when it is his duty to speak, from asserting a right
which he would have otherwise had.”
In the case of Mukhunlal v. Srikrishna Singh (20 NLR at
124) the Privy Council held :
“the maxim applies that a man cannot both affirm and
disaffirm the same transaction, show its true nature for his
own relief, and insist upon its apparent character 60
prejudice his adversary ................. The maxim is founded
not so much on any positive law as on the broad and
universally applicable principles of justice.”
In visuvalingam v. Liyanage (1983) I Sri LR 203 at page
227, Samarakoon, C. J. using more descriptive language to
bring home the essence of denying parties the freedom to
“approbate and reprobate”, commented that one “cannot blow
hot and cold.”
Thilak Karunarathne vs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike 1993 (2)
SLR 100 at 120......
“I will now proceed to consider the plea of approbation
and reprobation which was placed in the forefront of the
submission made by Mr. de Silva. The principle is that a
person cannot both approbate and reprobate. A person is not
allowed to accept a benefit and rejected the rest.......”
In the present case, all of the 1800 employees (and
especially the 1174 names in the schedule) have accepted the
conversion of NRCLG to an Annual Lump sum  payment and
is paid this amount to date. No evidence has surfaced of any
dissention to this payment, except the grumbling of an ex-
employee who is purpotedly spearheading a Trade Union
with a very small percentage of members. Once the payment
is accepted and received continuously since September
2009, the employees cannot now object to the same. If they
disputed this payment, they should not have accepted the
payment at all.
Therefore, the Union cannot have and maintain this claim,
especially in view of their categorical admission that all
employees have accepted the payment of Rs. 162,000/-
which was paid in lieu of the NRCLG. The Principles of
Approbate and Reprobate applies to this case.
There is no proof produced by the Union that employees
actually objected to this conversion of the NRCOLG to
annual Lump Sum. Neither the Union nor the Company could
offer a proper formula to calculate the NRCOLG , which
clearly supports the position of the Company that there are
practical difficulties in formulating a computation for the
calculation of the NRCLG in the absence of the gazette
notification giving the CCPI index, and justifies their
decision to convert to Annual Lump Payment.
The Company has several welfare schemes and grant
benefits to all its to all its employees and therefore, has a
primary duty to protect this scheme and implement the same
in a manner that can be sustainable in the future.
New collective agreement entered into 2016, marked as
R8 and R8 (4) which was enterred into two main trade union
and the company did not even refer to a NRCLG which
reveals that the said Unions were satisfied with the current
arrangement.
If the NRCLG is ordered to be paid without a ceiling the
company would be unable to pay the same and would lead
to the financial collapse of the institution.
In all of the facts and circumstances, and the Union is
not entitled to any relief whatsoever with attendant
documents and written submission made thereafter the
question at issue is whether or not the cessation of the
NRCLG and the payment of an ANNUAL LUMP SUM is
justified.
In passing it is relevant and apt to state the legal rules and
principles regarding the functions and powers of the
Commissioner and Arbitrator.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'07
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 07.03.2018
The function of Arbitrator's arbitral power in relation to
industrial disputes is to ascertain and declare to the
respective right and liabilities of the parties as they exist at
the moment the proceedings are instituted. From this it
follows that the arbitrator is required to do a great deal more
than sit in judgement over the case that each party cares to
present before him. If he is to ascertain what ought to be the
right, and libailities of parties and not what they are at the
institution of the proceedings. The ultimate burden of making
a just an equitable order is his. A just and equitable Award is
not an ultimate findings as to whether the employer is
justified or not. Vade Brown & Co. Lyd V . Ratnayake (1986)
Bar Association Law Reports 2008 page 398.
In fact according to the provisions of Industrial Disputes
Act, Part II and Part III (B) in general the Commissioner is
not given any power to take decisions or force any
settlement on the parties. He is only a facilitator for the
mutual settlement of disputes. If the parties fail to come to
a settlement the Commissioner ceases all powers in respect
of Industrial Dispute and may refer as a last resort to
compulsory arbitration through the Minister concerned with
a view to avoid any interruption to the community life. From
these observation a “Section 12 settlement” Especially the
S. 12(7) gives procedure to follow when parties fail to come
to a mutual settelement. These provisions require the
Commissioner to propose or promote a settlement among
employees as members of their Union.
Having heard the both parties written submissions with
the attendant documents its appears to me on a parity of
reasoning the evidence and the factual situation stands in
favour of the Company than that of the Union because in
law and equity it is justifiable. So much so the evidence of
the Company is sound and consistant and acceptable in the
light of economic content and in legal principles.
Moreover one cannot approbate and reprobate in the
context of equity. And therefore the party of the First Part
is estopped from claiming any relief whatsoever in the light
of above reasoning one could affirmatively conclude it is
equitable in principle and stands to reason in favour of the
Company.
In the premises I made order that the conduct of the
Company and the stand taken by the Company is just and
equitable and make no Award.
Accordingly this Award is just and equitable in the
circumstances. I make no Award.
T. E. S
ANTHARAJAN,
Arbitrator.
Colobmo,
25th January, 2018.
03 - 848
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA