

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1821
1821
wxl 1"777 - 2012 iema;eïn¾ 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'09'21
No. 1,777 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 21, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1824
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1828
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th October, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th
September, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1822
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1823
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1824
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
AMPARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 22nd Oct ober,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
30th August, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Ampara Uhana Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Wewagampattuwa North General, District Secretariat, Ampara
Division and Births and Deaths of
Gonagolla Division
09–589
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1825
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 22nd Oct ober,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
30th August, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Alawwa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Dambadeni Hathpattuwa General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Kurunegala
Udukaha South Boyawalana Division
09–590
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
NUWARA-ELIYA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1826
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
POSTS IN CLASS I OF SRI LANKA TECHNICAL
EDUCATION SERVICE
APPLICATIONS are invited from Class II officers of Sri Lanka
Technical Education Service to fill the vacancies in Class I of the
said service of Department of Technical Education and Training,
comes under the purview of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and
Skills Development.
Applications prepared according to the specimen form
mentioned below in A4 size paper using both sides with item Nos.
01 to 13.1 appearing in 1st page, item Nos. 13.2 to 15 in 2nd page
and the rest in 3rd page, should be sent under registered cover to
reach the Secretary, Ministry of youth Affairs and Skills
Development, Nipunatha Piyasa, No. 354/2, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05, on or before 22.10.2012. "Posts in Class I of Sri
Lanka Technical Education Service" should be mentioned on the
top left hand corner of the envelope, enclosing the application.
1. Salary and allowances .– Those selected will be placed in
the salary step of Rs. 36,755 of the Salary Scale Rs. 22,935
- 10x645 - 8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555. SL-1-2006 relevant
to these posts.
Salary increments will be paid subjected to passing of the
relevant efficiency bar examinations as mentioned in the
service minute of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 22nd Oct ober,
2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
30th August, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Nuwara-eliya Nuwara-eliya Post of Registrar of Marriages for Tamil District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Medium (General) of Nuwara-eliya General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Nuwara-eliya
Thalawakele Agarapathana Division
09–591
–––––––––––––––––––
published in the Gazette Notification No. 415, dated
15.08.1986 and amendments done from time to time and
any amendments that would be done to this service minute,
in future.
2. Qualification :
2.1 Should have completed at least one year period of
satisfactory service in Class II of Sri Lanka Technical
Education Service and confirmed in the said post with
a Post Graduate degree or Post Graduate Diploma
certificate or equivalent qualifications ; or
2.2 Should have completed at least 05 year period of
satisfactory service in Class II of Sri Lanka Technical
Education Service and confirmed in the service.
("Satisfactory Service Period" shall mean, all salary
increments have been earned in the 05 year period
immediately preceeding to the closing date of
applications and have not been subjected to any
punishment (except warning) on a disciplinary process,
within the said period).
3. Original copies of the following documents and any other
documents to prove other qualifications should be submitted
at the Interview :
(a) Certificate of birth ;
(b) Degree Certificate or other educational certificates ;
(c) 02 character certificates ;

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1827
(d) Certificates of professional and Technical qualifications ;
(e) Highest certificates passed in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium.
4. All applicants should submit their applications only to the
Secretary of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills
Development, through the Head of the Department and
applications received after the closing date of applications
will not be considered.
5. All applicants should appear for a structural interview,
according to the following making scheme and existing
vacancies will be filled according to the highest marks order.
As ordered by the Public Service Commission,
K. A. T
HILAKARA THNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and
Skills Development.
No. 354/2,
Nipunatha Piyasa,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.
Making Scheme of the interview to promote to Class I of Sri
Lanka Technical Education Service
Total Marks - 100
1. For the Seniority – 40 marks
1.1 04 marks per year, for the number of years completed
after completing 01 year service experience in class II of
Sri Lanka Technical Education Service with a Post
Graduate Degree or Post Graduate Diploma or
equivalant qualification ;
Maximum 40 marks
or
1.2 04 marks per year, for the number of years completed
after completing 05 year service experience in class II of
Sri Lanka Technical Education Service.
Maximum 40 marks
(Period of service will be considered up to the closing
date of applications)
2. For Skills - 60 marks
2.1 For vocational qualifications, obtained
Maximum 20 marks
(Marks should be given only to the Degree, in addition
to the Post Graduate Degree or Post Graduate Diploma
which are the basic qualifications, to be obtained by the
officers, who are eligible to be promoted to class I under
12.1 or service minute of Sri Lanka Technical Education
Service)
PhD - 20
M.Sc., MBA, MEng, MPhil, MA, MSsc - 15
Post Graduate Diploma (not less than 01 year) - 10
(Marks will not be given to Post Graduate Degree or
Post Graduate Diploma, produced for the Efficiency
Bar)
2.1.1 For applicants who are eligible to be promoted to
class I under 12.2 of Service Minute of Sri Lanka
Technical Education Service
PhD - 20
M.Sc., MBA, MEng, MPhil, MA, MSsc - 15
Post Graduate Diploma
(not less than 01 year) - 10
2.2 03 marks per year of administrative experience obtained
in a scheduled post (permanent) in class II
Maximum 15 marks
2.3 05 marks per each research or innovation published
(Research thesis or patent warrents should be
submitted)
Maximum 10 marks
2.4 02 marks per each commendation, obtained
Maximum 10 marks
2.5 Communication Skills - 02 marks
Leadership - 02 marks
Personality - 01 marks
Maximum 05 marks
A
PPLICA TION FOR THE PROMOTION TO CLASS I OF
SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE
1. Name (with initials) :––––––––––––.
2. Full Name :––––––––––––.
3. Official Address :––––––––––––.
4. Private Address :––––––––––––.
5. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
6. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
7. Age, as at the closing date of application :––––––––––––.
8. Sex :––––––––––––.
9. Civil Status :––––––––––––.
10. Date appointed to Class II of Sri Lanka Technical Education
Service :––––––––––––.
11. Date of first appointment to SLTES :––––––––––––.
12. 12.1 Total Service period as at the closing date of applications
:––––––––––––.
12.2 Period of service in class II as at the closing date of
applications :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1828
13. Educational Qualifications :
13.1 G. C. E. (O/L) : Year :––––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
13.2 G. C. E. (A/L) : Year :––––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
13.3 Perticulars of Degree, obtained :
Name of the Degree Field Effective date of the
Degree
1. PhD
2. MA/MSc
3. Post Graduate Diploma
4. BSc/BA
13.4 Name and field of post graduate degree or post graduate
Diploma which is considered for the Efficiency Bar :
––––––––––.
14. Professional Qualifications :
14.1 Professional Qualifications obtained in the fields
relevant to the present post :
1. ––––––––––––––.
2. ––––––––––––––.
3. ––––––––––––––.
14.2 Professional Qualifications obtained in other fields :
1. ––––––––––––––.
2. ––––––––––––––.
3. ––––––––––––––.
15. Qualifications obta ined in Institutional Administration :–––––.
16. Particulars of certificates/commendations with regard to well
disciplinary :––––––––––––.
17. Particulars, of Research and Inovations, published ––––––––.
I certify that the above particulars are true and correct to the
best of my knowledge and I have not been involved or purnished
for any disciplinary offence during my service period.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Recommendation of Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that the above particulars, of Mr./Mrs./Miss
............... who is working in this Department/College of Technology/
Technical College, are true and correct and he/she has not been
purnished for any disciplinary offence during the service period.
–––––––––––––,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and
Training.
Seal ––––––––––––––.
Date ––––––––––––––.
09–529
TELECOMMUNICATIONS   REGULATORY
COMMISSION   OF   SRI   LANKA   (TRCSL)
Examination for the Issue of Amateur Radio Operator’s
License by the TRCSL
1. CATEGORIES of Amateur Radio Operator’ s License :
(a) Amateur Radio Operator’s Advance Class License,
(b) Amateur Radio Operator’s General Class License,
(c) Amateur Radio Operator’s Novice Class License.
2. Minimum Entry Requirements.– Every candidate entering for
the examination must be fourteen (14) years of age or over on the
closing date of applications.
3. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Advance Class.– The examination consists of two parts :
Part 1:- Two (2) compulsory written papers to be
undertaken at one sitting :
Paper I - Advance Electrical Technology and Radio
Communications (3 hours) ;
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1829
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices
and Procedures (2 hours).
Part 2 :- Practical Morse Code Test(05 words per minute).
(b) General Class.–  The examination consists of two parts.
Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper I  - Fundamentals of Electricity and Radio
Communications (2 hours) ;
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices
and Procedures (1hour).
(c) Novice Class .– The examination consists of two parts.
Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper 1 - Basic Electricity, Radio and Electronic
Theory (2 hours) ;
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices
and Procedures (1 hour).
4. Conditions of Examinations.– The following conditions shall
apply to all categories of Amateur Radio License Examinations :
(i) To pass the examination, the candidates should pass all
papers of the examination.
(ii) Candidates must pass the two (2) written papers of the
examination at the same sitting.
(iii) Only those candidates who pass Part 1 of the examination
will be allowed to appear for Part 2 (Morse test) in case
of Advance class.
5. Medium of Examination.– The examination will be conducted
in English Medium only.
6. Examination Fees.– Applicants who conform to the
requirements of the examination are required to remit the examination
fees mentioned in this notification to the "Telecommunications
Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka". If further information in
this regared is required, the applicants are requested to write to the
TRCSL.
The examination fee is payable either by a money order or a pay
order/draft from any Bank drawn in the name of the
"Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka". The
entry form must be sent by recorded delivery on registered post or
delivered by hand. Official receipts must be retained as TRCSL will
not consider any claim that form has been overlooked or lost unless
proof of posting of delivery is produced.
Fees are not refundable  or cannot be transferred from one
examination to another at a later date. Any candidate who withdraws
his application or cannot appear for the examination due to any
reason whatsoever will be required to pay approximate examination
fee for any subsequent entry.
Category of Fee for Part 1 Fee for Part 2
Examination
Advance Class 276.00 138.00
General Class 138.00 -
Novice Class 138.00 -
7. Closing Date of Application .– The examination will be held
twice each year in April and October. The date of examination will
be informed by the Commissioner of Examinations. Applications
must be made on the appropriate entry form obtained from the
under mentioned office, completed, and submitted to the address
given below on or before the closing date mentioned below :–
Director General,
TRCSL,
276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08.
Category of License Last Date of Entry
Advance Class
General Class 05.10.2012
Novice Class
8. Attestation.– Candidate's signature must be attested by one of
the following :
A Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney-at-
Law and Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy
or Air Force, Gazetted Officer of the Police, a person holding a
permanent post in the State Service drawing a consolidated salary
of not less than Rs. 493,920 per annum. All other applications will
be rejected.
9. Identification of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity in the examination and for this purpose any
of the following documents will be accepted :
(a) A valid Identity Card issued by the Postmaster - General ;
(b) A valid Passport ;
(c) An Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons.
All candidates are required to act in conformity with the
Provisions of the Examination Act, No.25 of 1968.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1830
EFFICIENCY  BAR   EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS
IN  CLASS  II  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2011(I) 2012
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants' Service will
be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations in the
month of December, 2012 as per Provisions of para 5.2 of the
approved service minute of Public Management Assistants' Service
published in the Government Gazette of the Democratic Socialists
Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1372/23 dated 24.12.2004.
2.0 This examination for officers in Class II of the Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy,
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa,
Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.
The list of relevant towns and town numbers are given below. The
Commissioner - General of Examinations reserves the right to cancel
any center due to insufficiency of candidates or any other reason
and decide an alternative as per the candidate's second preference
of towns. The relevant section of the application should be filled
by referring to the table of towns and town numbers given below. It
will not be allowed to change subsequently the town/towns
indicated :
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0. (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner-General of Examinations for
violation of these rules and regulations.
4.0. Eligibility.- Officers who have been appointed to posts in
Class II of Public Management Assistants’ Service are eligible to
appear for this examination.
Note.– Provisions for Provincial Management Assistants'
Service shall be issued by the relevant Provincial Public
Service Commission concurrently to this Gazette
Notification.
5.0. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/herself. Applications should be sent by the
Registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Organization & Foreign Examinations Branch, Department
of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla , on or before 22nd
October, 2012. The name of the examination should be indicated at
the top left of the envelope containing the application. Applications
received after the closing date will be rejected. Incomplete
applications, too, will not be accepted.
6.0. Identity of the Candidates.–  Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner-General of Examinations. All candidates are bound
to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examination with regard to the conducting
of this examination. Further, candidates will be subjected to the
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for violation of those rules and regulations.
7.0. Applications.- Applications should be prepared in a paper
of "A4" size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on
the first page. The application could be typewritten but it should
be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting.
Any matters which has not been provided for under these Rules
and Regulations will be settled at the discretion of the Director-
general of Telecommunications.
Director General,
TRCSL.
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08,
21st September, 2012.
09-497
–––––––––––––––

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1831
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised not to send more than one application
or photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing the
specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make
sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
Officers appearing for the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings,
Rs. 400 for the whole examination and Rs. 200 for only one subject
should be paid at any District/Divisional Secretariat/post-office
islandwide to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained thus
should be affixed to the relevant cage of the applications form. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. it
will not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination in
favour of another.
8.0. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled
the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates.  If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in
hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept
at your  possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent.
9.0. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, enabling them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0. Candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the
relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who
entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers
should be answered in the language medium of their education or in
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the language
medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
11.0. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
(For further details, refer to Para. 5:2 of Public Management
Assistants’ Service Minute.).
12.0. For the purpose of the official language policy, all officers
should prepare and fill the application forms in the official language.
13.0. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will release
the results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and the lists of names of the candidates who have passed
the exam will be published in the Government Gazette of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14.0. Examination Procedure.-  Candidates should sit for a
written examination, which will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Marks Duration Subject
No.
(01) Office Systems and 100 02 Hrs. 01
Procedure
(02) Accounting Systems
adopted in the
Government Offices
100 02 Hrs. 02
      Total 200
14.1 Office Systems and Procedure.- This paper is intended
to test the candidate’s knowledge of office systems
adopted in Government offices and his/her ability of
practical application of the knowledge. This paper
consists of two parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple-choice questions,
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks ;
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type
questions, 03 out of 04 questions should
be answered, duration is 90 minutes, 75
marks.
14.2 Accounting Systems adopted in Government Offices.-
Candidate’s knowledge in Accounting Systems adopted
in Government office, books and records controlling
accounts and orders and instructions of the Treasury
issued in relation to that and his/her ability of practical
application of the knowledge will be tested. This paper
consists of two parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple-choice questions,
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks ;
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions,
03 out of 04 questions should be answered,
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1832
15.0. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final, in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
06th September, 2012.
Specimen Form of Application
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE – 2011 (I), (2012)
(As per this exam notification, only the officers in Class II of
Public Management Assistants' Service of the Combined Services
shall be eligible to forward applications)
(For office use only)  
(Indicate the name and the number Town Town No.
  of the town in which you wish to sit
  for the examination as per Para 2.0 1.
  of the Gazette notification) 2.
(This cannot be changed subsequently)
Medium of examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :———––—.
(In block capitals)
Eg : SILV A M. A.
1.2 Name with initials :——––——.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by initials :——––——.
(In block capitals)
1.4 Names denoted by initials :———––—.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Place of work and address :
2.1 Names and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :———––––—.
(In English Capital Letters)
2.2 Names and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :———––––—.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
:——––––——.
(In block capitals)
3.0 Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 Subject/s you offer  :
Subject Subject No.
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :——––——.
6.2 Number of the letter of appointment :——––——.
6.3 Date of entry into Class II of Public Management
Assistants’ Service :——––——.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––.
7.2 If not, the fee paid :——––——.
7.3 For affixing the receipt :
Affix the receipt securely here.
(It would be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium
indicated above. The receipt obtained by paying Rs. ......................
to a ........ District/Divisional Secretariat post office at .................
has been affixed hereto. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules
and regulations of the Examinations Act and also to the decision
taken by the Commissioner-General of Examinations regarding this
examination.
————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.
Note.- The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to sign on
behalf of such Head of Department.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1833
ATTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I certify that ....................................... who is an officer in my
office and who is known to me personally placed his/her signature
in my presence this ..................................... day of
..........................................., he/she has paid the relevant examination
fee and that the receipt has been affixed.
—–––––––––———,
Signature and official stamp of the
person attesting.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The particulars furnished by the candidate have been
examined ;
(ii) This officer belongs to combined services ;
(iii) The officer has *appeared/not appeared for the
examination earlier ;
(iv) *He/she has affixed the receipt obtained by paying the
relevant fee to this application form since *he/she has
appeared for the examination ; and
(v) The candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
————,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
09-669
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND
HOME AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the
Posts of Technical Officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka
Technological Service for District Secretariats/
Kachcheries and Divisional Secretariats – 2012
THE Gazette Notification No. 1,773, "Open Competitive
Examination to recruit to the Posts of Technical Officers in Grade
III of Sri Lanka Technological Service, for District/Divisional
Secretariats and Offices of the Government Agents which are under
the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs - 2012"
published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka dated 24th August, 2012 is hereby revised with the inclusion
of the following note below 4(a) of Section 04.
Note.– If the number of applicants who are qualified for the
recruitment for Grade III, is not sufficient to fill the
vacancies, applicants who become qualified as follows
shall be recruited to the training grade for the remaining
vacancies.
The closing date for the applications mentioned in the Gazette
notification shall be 24.09.2012 and the other provisions of the
Gazette notification shall be remained unchanged.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
04th September, 2012.
09–694
––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  CENSUS  AND  STATISTICS
Open Competitive Examination to Recruit the Executive
Grade III (Statistician)  – 2012
APPLICATIONS are called for Competitive Examination according
to the Public Service Commission standards to select appropriate
individuals to fill existing vacancies for the post of (Statistician)
Executive Class III at this Department. The application which
prepared according to the specimen given at the end of this notice
should be sent in registered post to Commissioner General of
Examinations, Department of Examination of Sri Lanka, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla on or before the date mentioned below. In the left top
corner of the envelope “Open Competitive Examination for
Recruitment of Executive Class III (Statistician)” should be written
clearly. Name of the examination which is given in the title should
be indicated in English in addition to Sinhala or Tamil.
(a) Last date of calling applications is 19.10.2012.
Examination will be held in December, 2012.
Note.– Consideration will not be given to complaints claiming
that Application form or related documents delayed or
lost in postage. Applicant should bear the loss of delaying
the application until the closing date.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1834
1.  Recruitment Method.– Recruitment will be made for the Post
of Statistician based on serial ranks obtained in the written
examination conducted by Department and recommendation of the
interview board which appointed by Public Service Commission
and in accordance to the existing vacancies.
(Marks will not be given for interview) (Syllabus of the limited
examination for recruitment of Statistician Class III is given under
No. 8(1)).
2. Conditions for Recruitment :
(i) This position is permanent and entitled to pension. Should
contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
(ii) Officers who are appointed to this position are  subjected
to acting service period of probation.
(iii) First Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within
three (3) years after the appointment to the position.
(iv) Should obtain competency level in other official languages
within five (5) years according to Public Administration
Circular No. 7/2007(II). Officers who are appointed to
the service in languages other than official languages should
obtain competency in an official language within three (3)
years and competency of another official language within
six (6) years.
3. Salary Scale .– This position is entitled to the Salary Scale
according to the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 SL-
1-2006, Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 - 8 x790 - 17x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
4. Educational Qualifications .– A Degree with a class from a
University recognized by University Grants Commission having
studied minimum of one of the following subjects as main subject :
Statistics, Mathematics, Economics, Social Science, Demography,
Computer Science, Information Technology, Geography or
Draftsmanship ; or
General Degree with Second Upper Class from a University
recognized by University Grants Commission having studied
minimum of one of the following subjects as main subjects : Statistics,
Mathematics, Economics, Social Science, Demography, Computer
Science, Information Technology, Geography or Draftsmanship.
5. Age limit.– Between 21 and 35 years of age.
6. Physical qualification :
(i) All applicants should be willing to work in any part of
Sri Lanka ; and
(ii) With physical and mental fitness to discharge his/her
official duties.
7. Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicant should be a Sri Lankan citizen ;
(ii) Applicant should possess an excellent character ;
(iii) All required qualifications for the post should be obtained
before the closing date of applications as mentioned in
the notice/Gazette.
8.  8.1 Written Examination :
Subjects Maximum Pass Marks
Marks
1 Theories related to 100 40%
subjects (2 hours)
2 IQ Examination 100 40%
(1 hour)
Note.– Applicants should obtain more than 40% or more
marks in all papers and applicants with highest cumulative
marks for both papers will be selected according to the
number of existing vacancies.
8.1.1 This examination is conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
8.1.2 Mode of Examination :
* Examination will be held in Tamil, Sinhala and
English Languages ;
* Applicant can sit for the examination in his/her
preferable language ;
* Applicant should answer all papers in the same
language ;
* Language mentioned in the admission card will not
be changed ;
* Applicant should sit for both (2) papers.
8.1.3 Syllabus :
General knowledge related to subjects :
(i) National and International Statistics ;
(ii)
Statistics and development of people ;
(iii) New developments related to statistics ;
(iv) Socio-economic data ;
(v) Environment and society ;
(vi) Geographical features and people ;
(vii) Information Technology.
Intelligence Qualification .– Identifying problems and
reasons, decision making, maintaining relationship
with people communication skills and self control
policies and Defining applicant's improved

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1835
management skills according to events and
incidents to practice are expected from this
examination.
8.2 General Interview.– (marks will not be given).
Objectives expected to achieve. – To examine whether
qualifications mentioned in the recruitemnt procedures
and published notice are fulfilled and the mental and
physical fitness.
8.3 General Conditions :
(i) The competitive examination will be held only in
Sinhala/Tamil/English languages. Answers for both
papers should be given in one language. No room
will be given to change applied language. All
applicants are bound to adhere to the rules and
regulations made by Commissioner General of
Examinations on conduct the examination. He/She is
bound to punishment imposed by Commissioner of
Examinations if he/she violates the rules and
regulations.
(ii) Examination fee is Rs. 1,000. The examination fee
could be paid at any post office located in any part
of the country to be credited to the Income Head
2003-02-13 of Commissioner of Examination and the
receipt obtained should be properly affixed on the
specified space in the application. Photocopy of the
receipt should be retained by the applicant.
(iii) Examination fee is not refundable under any
circumstances.
(iv) The examination will be held only in Colombo. Date
of the examination will be informed later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be disqualified without
any notification.
Note.– No admission without admission card. The
admission card with certified signature of the
applicant should be handed over to the
Examination Inspector on the first day of
examination.
Issuing of admission card should not be considered as
acceptance of the candidate as having fulfilled all
required qualifications to sit for the examination.
(vi) Application form should be prepared using A4
(C. M. 22x.29) size paper and the application form
should be prepared to enable to include paragraph
No. 01 to 06 in the first page, paragraphs No. 07 to
12 in the second page and rest in the third and fourth
pages. The applicant should ensure that the
application form perfected by himself in accordance
with the specimen form appearing in the examination
notification. Application which is not in accordance
with the specimen form and incomplete applications
are liable to rejection without notification. It will be
useful for the applicant to keep a photocopy of the
application with him/her. Further the applicant
should clarify whether the filled application is
accordance with model application mentioned in the
examination notice and if it is not applications will
be rejected. Therefore, prepare the application
according to specimen herewith.
(vii) Receipt of application would not be acknowledged.
Paper notice will be given immediately when
admission cards are issued to applicants.
(viii) The power of postponing or voiding the examination
with the approval of Public Service Commission is
vested on Commissioner General of Examination.
(ix) Paper notice will be published by the Department of
Examination immediately after issuing admission
cards. It should be reported Department of
Examination of Sri Lanka according to the notice if
not received the admission card within two or three
days after the paper notice. While informing this it is
more effective to sent your request letter to
Examination Department of Sri Lanka with the
photocopies of the application, exam fee payment
receipt and receipt of registered post of the
application. (Fax : 0112784232) If you are away
from Colombo please note a Fax No. to sent the
admission card.
9. Identification of the Applicant.– All candidates should prove
their identity as to satisfy the officer in charge of the examination
centre. Only one of the following documents given below is
accpetable :–
(i) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) Valid Passport.
Applicants who are selected in the written examination should
have the following documents ready to submit during the interview :–
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Degree and other educational certificates ;
(iii) Two character certificates (One of these should be
obtained from a lecturer or a professor of University) ;
(iv) Certificates related to Professional Qualification (if
any) ;
(v) Certificates for having passed higher examinations in
Sinhalese, Tamil and English Languages.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1836
For attention :
(a) Should not annex and send any documents or its copies
with the application form ;
(b) Applications of applicants who fail to produce
documents when requested will not be considered.
Officers serving in Public Service or Provincial Public Service,
Government Corporations should forward their application through
head of the Department/Institution. It is compulsory to all applicants
to confirm their signature before sitting for the examination.
Otherwise, applicants should confirm their signature through
principal/retired principal/Grama Niladhari/Justice of Peace/
Commissioner of peace/Notary Public Lawyer/Authorized Officers
of Forces/Government employees with annual salary of Rs. 240,360
or more or permanent employees of Provincial Government or
Buddhist priest of Viharaya or authorized priests of other religions.
Application and related documents should not be sent to any
Institution/Department or any individuals other than Commissioner
General of Examinations.
According to the recommendation of Public Service
Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Head Office,
Colombo 01,
2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
T
HE OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION TO RECRUIT THE EXECUTIVE
GRADE III (STA TISTICIAN) FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF CENSUS AND
STATISTICS – 2012
Index No. :
(For office use only)
The medium expected to appear for the examination
(Sinhala – 2/Tamil – 3/English – 4)
Write the relevant number in the box.
01. 1.1 The Name with the initials at the end :–––––––––.
(In English Block Letters) Eg. : SUNIL A. B.
1.2 Full Name :–––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)
1.3 Full Name :–––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Permanent/Address :–––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)
2.2 Address to which the admission to be sent :–––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)
2.3 Telephone No. :
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write down the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Day :
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Nationality (Put 3 in the relevant cage) :
Sinhalese Indian Tamil
Sri Lankan Tamil Malay
Muslim Other
06. Residential District :–––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––.
07.  Fee paid (Applicant is advisable to keep a copy of the receipt) :
Date of payment :–––––––––.
Amount :–––––––––.
District/Divisional Secretariat Office :–––––––––.
Receipt No. :–––––––––.
(The receipt is to be pasted here from an edge firmly)
08. The highest pass gained for language proficiency : (Please
mention the name of the Examination) :
Sinhala :–––––––––.
Tamil :–––––––––.
English :–––––––––.
09. Educational Qualification :
Details of the degree :
Degree Institute Pass Subjects Validity Date

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.09.2012
1837
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Other Educational Qualifications :
Course Institute Details of Subjects
10. Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
11. Present occupation and the previous occupations :
Institute Designation From - To Salary
(Monthly)
12. Are you a suspect of a criminal case ? If so give the details :
–––––––––.
I do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any of these
particulars have been found false or incorrect prior to the selection,
renders me a disqualified and if found subsequently to the
appointment I will be dismissed without any compensation. Also I
declare hereby that I am subjected to the rules and regulations and
on decision of releasing the results being formulated by the
Commissioner General of Examinations in the holding of the
acumination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
A TTESTATION OF THE SIGNA TURE OF THE APPLICANT
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ who
is forwarding this application is personally known to me and that
the receipt has been pasted and put his/her signature before me.
––––––––––––––,
The Signature of the Officer
attesting the signature.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
When the applicant is an employee of a government Department/
Institute, the application shall be forwarded through the head of
the Department or the institute along with the above certificate.
THE CERTIFICA TE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. works in this department
as a permanent/temporary/casual employee. I hereby certify that
he/she has not been subject to any disciplinary punishment (except
for a warning) and the information furnished in this application are
correct. Also I certified that his/her work and behaviour are
satisfactory and has fulfilled the qualifications as per the Gazette
notification to sit for this examination and the relevant examination
fee has been paid and the receipt is attached.
If selected he/she can be/can't be released from the service.
––––––––––––––––,
The signature of the Head of the
Department/Institution.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
09–695