

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
1A
wxl 1842$2 - 2013 foieïn¾ ui 23 jeks i÷od - 2013'12'23
No. 1842/2  -  MONDAY ,  DECEMBER  23,  2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette  Extraordinary can be downloaded  from www.documents.gov.lk
MINUTE  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE
The following Minute of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service shall come into operation with effect from 01st July, 2012
substituting the Minute of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service dated 28th October, 2005 published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No.1419/3 of 14th November, 2005 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the amendments thereto from time to
time.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
T.M.L.C.SENARATNE
Secretary
Public Service Commission
01. Effective Date: This Minute shall come into operation with effect from 01st July, 2012 without prejudice to any
step taken or purported to have been taken in terms of provisions as per the amendments made from time to time to the said
Minute of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service dated 28
th October, 2005 published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1419/3
of 14th November, 2005.
02. General role of the service: As the principal service that contributes and assists in the formulation of public
policies and the implementation of such policies, it shall be  the general role of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service to provide
leadership, direction and guidance for the development of an excellent public service in order to realize the objectives
expected of the public service of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka by maintaining a good relationship and co-
ordination with local and foreign institutes which are  instrumental in the said task through practices based on principles of
moderation, impartiality and transparency. In the performance of the above mentioned multifaceted functions, within the
general role of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, the following tasks entrusted will be of unique importance:
· To contribute in the formulation of public policy and to follow sound strategies in the implementation of such
policies,
· To provide necessary leadership and guidance in order to ensure an efficient public service that enables all
organizations and stakeholders to function as a coherent and effective system in the implementation of public
policies.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
2A
· Functions of the Provincial Councils, and District Administration and Divisional Administration,
· To account for the above mentioned functions including Public Finance and to assure in that respect to the
public by reporting back to Parliament.
03. Definitions and Interpretations:
(i) The term “Cadet” shall mean a person recruited under provision of this minute that is undergoing induction
training.
(ii)The term “Gazette” shall mean the Government Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(iii)The term “Minute” shall mean the minute on the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
(iv) The term “Commission” shall mean the Public Service Commission appointed in terms of Article 54 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(v)  The term “ Period of active service ” shall mean the period actually   served in one’s post drawing the
salaries attached to such post. Apart from the maternity leave approved by the government, all the other
periods of no- pay leave shall not be considered in calculating the period of active service.
(vi) The t erm “Secretary” shall mean the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Public
Administration.
(vii) The term “Effective date” shall mean 01
st July, 2012.
(viii)The term “Service”, when not otherwise specified shall mean the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
(ix)The term “Ministry” shall mean the Ministry in charge of the subject of Public Administration.
(x) The term “Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration” shall mean the Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration established under Act, No. 09 of 1982.
04. Appointing Authority:  The Public Service Commission.
05. Administrative Authority: The Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Public Administration.
06. Details of the categories of Service belonging to the service:
Service category Grade
Senior Executive Special Grade
Executive Grade I
Grade II
Grade III
07. Salaries:
Grade Salary Code Initial Salary Scale – Rs.
No. Salary Step
Special Grade SL-3-2006 Step 1 42,390-12x1,310-58,110
Grade I SL-1-2006 Step 20
Grade II SL-1-2006 Step 12 22,935-10x645-8x790-17x1,050-53,555
Grade III SL-1-2006 Step 1
}

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
3A
08.  Approved Cadre:
8.1 The combined cadre for promotions within grades: 2906
For the purpose of promotion all Grades i.e. Grade I, Grade II and Grade III, shall be considered to be within the
combined cadre.
8.2 Number of approved posts under each Grade:
Grade Number
Special Grade 301
Grade I 860
Grade II 1745
Grade III
09. Posts belonging to the Service:
       Posts belonging to the Service are given in Appendix “A”
Notwithstanding any reference contrary to the Minute of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, posts approved at
present for island-wide service and those which may be approved in future shall be held continuously by the respective
services.
10. Stream of Recruitment and basic qualifications for recruitment:
10.1 Stream of Recruitment:
Stream Percentage
Open Seventy Five percent (75%)
Limited T wenty percent (20%)
Merit Five percent (05%)
The number of vacancies for the purpose of recruitment to the service, shall be the number of vacancies existing in
the combined cadre as at the date by which all qualifications required for sitting for the competitive examination should have
been completed, as stated in the Gazette.
10.2 Basic Qualifications for recruitment:
10.2.1 Recruiting Grade: Grade Three (III) of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
10.2.2 General qualifications for recruitment under open and limited streams:
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(ii) Be a person of an excellent moral character
(iii) Be of sound physical and mental capability to serve in any part of the island.
10.2.3 Educational Qualifications:

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
4A
(a) Educational Qualifications for recruitment under the Open Stream:
(i) A degree from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or from an
institute recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institute;
(b) Educational Qualifications and experience for recruitment under the Limited Stream:
(i) A degree from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or from an
institute recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institute;
And
Be an Officer in the Public Service or in a Provincial Public Service in a permanent and
pensionable service/post receiving a salary under Salary Code No. MN-2-2006 or a higher
MN Salary Code Number or under an SL Salary Code Number in Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006 who has completed a minimum active period of service of five (05) years
in any service/post;
Or
(ii) Be an Officer in the Public Service or in a Provincial Public Service in a pensionable service
receiving a salary in Salary Code Number MN-2-2006 or a higher MN Code or under and SL
Salary Code Number in Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 who has completed a
minimum active period of service of ten (10) years in any service/post.
(iii) Other conditions required to be completed:
An officer who is qualified under the provisions stated in sub para 10.2.3.(b) above should
have completed the following requirements;
(a) being confirmed in a service/post in the public service/a provincial public service in a
post stated in sub para 10.2.3 (b) above;
(b) not being subjected to disciplinary punishment during the immediately preceding period
of five ( 5)years;
(c) Having earned all salary increments on the due dates during the immediately preceding
period of five (5) years.
(c) Relevant qualifications and experience for recruitment under the merit stream:
(i) Be a supra class officer in a permanent and pensionable post  in the Public Management
Assistants Service or in a Provincial Public Management Assistants Service;
or
(ii) Be an officer with an active and satisfactory period of service not less than twenty (20) years in
the Public Management Assistants Service or in a Provincial Public Management Assistants
Service with ten (10) years’ active and satisfactory service in Class I of such a service.
(iii) Other qualifications to have been fulfilled:
An officer qualifying under the provisions mentioned in sub paragraph 10.2.3(c) above
should have fulfilled the following requirements:
(a) Made permanent in a service mentioned in sub para 10.2.3.(c)
(b) Have a successful service record and have not been subjected to any disciplinary
punishment during the entire period of service

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
5A
(c) Have earned all salary increments on the due dates during the immediately preceding
period of five (5) years.
Note I: In the calculation of the period of service mentioned in sub para 10.2.3 (b) and (c) above, the aggregate of
the periods of continuous service in the Public Service and/or Provincial Public Services will be  considered.
10.2.4 Age:
(a) Age limit under the Open Stream:
Should be not less than twenty two (22) years and not more than twenty eight (28) years.
(b) Age limit under the Limited Stream:
Should be not more than fifty three (53) years.
(c) Age limit under the merit stream:
Should be not more than fifty five (55) years.
10.2.5 Restrictions on eligibility:
(i) No candidate shall be permitted to sit for the open competitive examination on more than two
(02) occasions.
(ii) No candidate shall be permitted to sit for the limited competitive examination on more than two
(02) occasions.
(iii) No candidate shall be permitted to sit for the merit competitive examination on  more than two
(02) occasions
         (iv)  All qualifications required to have been completed for eligibility for sitting at the open/limited/
merit competitive examinations as stipulated in the Gazette notification and the government web
site should have been completed in full on or before the date stated therein.
         (v)    No person who is ordained in any religious order shall be allowed to apply or to sit for an open/
limited/merit competitive examination for recruitment.
10.2.6 Recruitment Procedure:
(i)  (a) Recruitment under Open and Limited Streams:
Recruitments will be through a written examination and interviews.
Interviews will consist of two (02) parts as the general interview and the
structured interview.
      (b) Recruitment under the merit stream:
Recruitments will be through a written examination, seniority and interviews. Interviews will
consist of two (02) parts as the general interview and the structured interview.
(ii) Out of the candidates who have scored a minimum of fifty (50%) marks in each subject, those
who score the highest marks in the aggregate for all the subjects will qualify to appear for the
general interview.
(iii) Out of the candidates qualified as stipulated in sub para 10.2.6.(ii) above, only a number equivalent
to the total number of those expected to be recruited according to the vacancies and a 25% of the
number of vacancies will be called for the general interview. If the number of qualified applicants
does not amount to the number mentioned above, only such numbers of candidates who are so
qualified will be called for the general interview.
(iv) The general interview will be held prior to the structured interview to examine qualifications and
no marks will be allocated there. Applicants confirmed to have fulfilled all qualifications for
recruitment at the general interview will  qualify to be called for the structured interview. Even if

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
6A
a certain number of candidates are not qualified to be called for the structured interview, other
candidates will not be called again for the general interview in place of those who are not so
qualified.
(v) In recruiting under the Open and Limited Streams, appointments will be made to Grade III
according to merits beginning from candidates who have scored the highest aggregate of marks
as per the total marks obtained at the written examination and the structured interview by the
number of candidates  expected to be appointed according to the existing vacancies.
(vi) In recruiting under the merit stream, appointments will be made to Grade III according to merit
beginning from candidates who have scored the highest aggregate of marks as per the total
marks obtained at the written examination, for seniority and at the structured interview by the
number of candidates expected to be appointed according to the existing number of vacancies.
10.2.7 Written Examination:
(a) Written examination under the Open Stream:
There shall be a written examination consisting of five (05) question papers. The subjects and minimum marks
required to be obtained for a pass in each subject are given below. The syllabus is given in Appendix “B”.
Subject Number Minimum marks
of marks required for pass
1 General Intelligence 100 50
2 Social, Economic and Political background and trends in Sri Lanka 100 50
3 Global Trends 100 50
4 Managerial Aptitude 100 50
5 Creative, Analytical and Communicative Skills 100 50
(b) Written Examination under the Limited Stream:
There shall be a written examination consisting of four (04) question papers. The subjects and minimum marks
required to be obtained for a pass in each subject are given below. The syllabus is given in Appendix “C”.
Subject Number of Minimum
marks marks required for pass
1 General Intelligence 100 50
2 Social, Economic and Political background and trends in Sri Lanka 100 50
3 Case Studies  relevant to Public Administration I (Relating to the Est. 100 50
Code, Public Services Commission procedural rules and Financial
Regulation)
4 Case Studies relevant to Public Administration II 100 50
(Relating to the testing of creative, analytical and communicative skills)

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
7A
(c) Written Examination under the merit stream:
There shall be a written examination consisting of three (03) question papers. The subjects and minimum
marks required to be obtained for a pass in each subject are given below. The syllabus is given in
Appendix “D”.
Subject Number of Minimum marks
marks required for pass
1. General Intelligence 100 50
2. Establishments Code, Public Services Commission Procedural Rules 100 50
3. Government Financial Regulations and  Government Procurement Process 100 50
(d) For officers appearing under the merit stream, the maximum marks that can be obtained for seniority will
be One Hundred (100). Marking system is given in  Appendix “E”.
(e) Authority conducting the written examinations for recruitment:
The Examinations shall be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations subject to the
directions by the Public Services Commission.
10.2.8 Interviews:
(a) General Interview:
(i)  The general interview shall be conducted to ascertain whether the qualifications for recruitment
stipulated in sub-paras 10.2.2, 10.2.3 and 10.2.4 have been fulfilled and whether the applicants
conform to the restrictions on eligibility stipulated in sub-para 10.2.5. Forms to be completed are
given in Appendix “F”.
(ii) The panel of the general interview board shall be appointed by the Commission.
(b) Structured interview:
(i) Shall be held to measure the managerial skills, leadership qualities, communicative skills and
personality of candidates. The methodology adopted in this regard has been formulated by the
Secretary of Public Administration in consultation with Commission. The maximum marks that can
be scored at this interview will be Twenty-five (25).
(ii) The panel of the structured interview shall be appointed by the Commission.
10.2.9 Procedure for calling for applications:
The procedure for submitting applications to sit for the examination and the required fees shall be published
in the Gazette and the web site.
Note II.—  The maximum number of occasions available for a candidate to sit for the written examination shall be six
(06) being two (02) under the open stream, two (02) under the limited stream and two (02) under the merit stream.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
8A
11. Efficiency Bar Examinations and confirmation in Service:
11.1 Efficiency Bar Examinations:
Efficiency Bar Period during which EB Nature of the EB
Examination  should be completed Examination
First (I) EB W ithin Three (3) years from Details of the
Examination the date of recruitment to examination are given in
Grade Three (III) Appendix “G”
Second (II) EB W ithin Three (3) years from Details of the
Examination the date of promotion to examination are given in
Grade Two  (II) Appendix “H”
Third (III) EB W ithin Five (5) years from Details of the
Examination the date of promotion to examination are given in
Grade One (I) Appendix “I”
11.1 (a) Frequency at which the Efficiency Bar Examination is conducted:
Shall be held twice a year.
11.1 (b) The authority conducting the Examination:
The Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
11.2 Confirmation in the service:
11.2.1 An officer recruited to the service under the open stream shall be subjected to a probation period of
Three (03) years. The officer  shall be confirmed in service at the end of the probation period on fulfillment
of the following requirements:-
(i) Having passed the first (01) Efficiency Bar Examination;
(ii) Having obtained the certificate after successful completion of the Diploma Course in Public
Administration mentioned in sub-para 17.1;
(iii)Having been recommended by the Head of the Institute that work, attendance and conduct
during the probation period is satisfactory;
(iv) In case of an officer recruited to the service in the English medium having obtained proficiency in
the Official Language as stipulated in sub-para 12.1.
11.2.2. An officer recruited to service under the limited/merit stream shall be subjected to an acting period of one
year. At the end of the acting period, the officer will be confirmed in service on fulfillment of the following
requirements:-
(i) Having obtained the certificate after successful completion of the Diploma Course in Public
Administration provided for the induction training stipulated in sub-para 17.1;
(ii) Having been recommended by the Head of the institute that work, attendance and conduct during
the acting period is satisfactory.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
9A
12.  Language Proficiency:
12.1. Proficiency in the Official Language:
An officer recruited in the English medium shall achieve proficiency in any one of the Official Languages
during the probation period. The expected level of proficiency shall be the pass in the G.C.E.(Ordinary
Level) Examination in Sinhala/ Tamil Language as a main subject (not as the second language or as an
optional language) and pass in an oral examination conducted by the Department of Official Languages or
in the special Proficiency Examination conducted by the Department of Official Languages.
12.2 Proficiency in the Other Official Language:
Period during Language  Proficiency
which Medium of
Proficiency Proficiency level Language of Official language in which
should be to be achieved appointment proficiency should be
achieved  to the service obtained
Within the first Proficiency levele Sinhala T amil
five (05) years of as per provisions T amil Sinhala
appointment to in PA Circular English Official language other than
the service 07/2007 and Circulars the Official Language in which
incidential thereto proficiency was obtained
under sub-para 12.1
13. Grade Promotions:
13.1. Promotion to Grade Two (II) from Grade Three (III):
13.1.1. Promotion under average performance:
13.1.1. (a) Requirements to be fulfilled:
(i) Having been confirmed in service.
(ii) Should have completed a minimum of Ten years (10) of active service in Grade Three (III) of
the service and earned Ten (10) salary increments in Grade Three (III).
(iii) Should have achieved satisfactory or a higher level performance in terms of the approved
performance appraisal scheme during a period of Ten (10) years preceding the date of
promotion.
(iv) Having completed a satisfactory period of service throughout the period of Five (05) years
immediately preceding the date of  promotion.
 (v) Having achieved proficiency in the other Official Language stipulated in sub-para 12.2
(vi) Having passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examinations on the due date.
(vii) Having successfully completed the Level III on Capacity Building conducted by the Sri
Lanka Institute of Development Administration and obtained the relevant certificate.
13.1.1.(b) Method of promotion:
When an officer who has fulfilled all requirements stipulated in sub-para 13.1.1 (a) makes an
application as per  the specimen application for promotion to the appointing authority with
recommendation of the administrative authority through the Secretary to the Ministry or through

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
10A
the Head of the Department in Departments that do not come under a Ministry or through the
Chief Secretary of the Provincial Council the promotion to Grade Two (II) of the Service under
average performance, will be effected by the appointing authority with effect from the date of
fulfillment of such requirements following verification that all requirements have been fulfilled.
13.2. Pr omotion to Grade One (I) from Grade Two (II) of the service:
13.2. (a) Requirements to be fulfilled:
(i) Having a post graduate degree from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission
or from an institute recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institute
at least in one of the fields such as Public Administration, Management, Public Policies, Human
Resource Management, Economics, Development Economics, Social Development, Law, Financial
Management, Project Planning and Management, Information Technology or other fields approved
by the Public Service Commission on the recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry in
charge of the subject of Public Administration as appropriate to obtain knowledge and skills to
perform multi management functions entrusted to the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
(ii) Having completed a minimum of seven (07) years active and satisfactory service in Grade Two (II)
in the service category and earned seven (07) due salary increments .
(iii) Having completed a satisfactory period of service throughout the five (05)   years immediately
prior to the date of promotion.
(iv) Showed a performance at a satisfactory or above satisfactory level during a period of seven (07)
years prior to the date of promotion according to the approved performance appraisal scheme.
(v)  Having passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.
(vi) Having successfully completed the Level II on Capacity Building conducted by the Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Administration and obtained the relevant certificate.
13.2(b) Method of promoting:
When an officer who has fulfilled all requirements stipulated in sub-para 13.2(a) makes an application
as per the specimen application form for promotion to the appointing authority with recommendation
of the administrative authority through the Secretary to the Ministry or through the Head of the
Department in Departments that do not come under a Ministry or through the Chief Secretary of the
Provincial Council the promotion to Grade One (I) of the service will be effected by the appointing
authority with effect from the date of fulfillment of such requirements following verification that all
requirements have been fulfilled.
13.3. Promotion to Special Grade from Grade One (I) of the service:
13.3.(a) Requirements to be fulfilled:
(i) Having a post graduate degree from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission
or from an institute recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institute
at least in one of the fields such as Public Administration, Management, Public Policies, Human
Resource Management, Economics, Development Economics, Social Development, Law, Financial
Management, Project Planning and Management, Information Technology or other fields approved
by the Public Service Commission on the recommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry in
charge of the subject of Public Administration as appropriate to obtain knowledge and skills to
perform multi management functions entrusted to the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
11A
(ii) Having completed a minimum of five (05) years active and satisfactory service in Grade One (I) of
the service as at the date of becoming eligible for promotion and earned five (05) increments after
being promoted to Grade One (I).
(iii) Having completed  an active period of service not less than eighteen (18) years as at the date of
promotion.
(iv) Showed an annual performance of satisfactory or above satisfactory level throughout the period
of five (05) years immediately preceding the date of becoming eligible for promotion according to
the approved performance appraisal scheme.
(v) Possessed a satisfactory period of service during the period of five (05) years immediately
preceding to the date of promotion and not being subjected to a disciplinary punishment.
(vi) Having completed a period of at least three years (03) service in each of the following institutions
during the period of service completed in the service:
I. In a post/ posts in a Ministry or Department or a Commission
II. In a post/ posts in a Provincial Public Service
III. In a post/ posts in a Divisional Secretariat or a Government Agent/ District Secretariat
Note IV .— The requirement stipulated in para 13.3(a)(vii) above is applicable to all officers recruited to the service in year 2006
and  after.
13.3.(b) Method of promotion:
An officer who completes the above qualifications will be promoted to the Special Grade by the Public
Services Commission as per vacancies available as at 1st July and 1st January every year.
Recommendations for appointment to the Special Grade will be made following an evaluation made by
a Board of Selection consisting of three members appointed by the Public Services Commission. In
making its recommendations the said Board of Selection will act on the basis an overall evaluation of the
seniority and merits of the officers concerned. For this purpose, officers who have obtained the
qualifications stipulated in 13.3(a) above and whose number does not exceed twice the number of
existing vacancies shall be subjected to the interview.
14.  Appointment to posts :
Shall be appointed to posts through a procedure (methodology) approved  by the Public Services Commission as
opportune.
15. Conditions of implementation :
All provisions of this minute shall be applicable in respect of all officers recruited to the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service after the effective date of this Minute.  The manner in which the provisions of this Minute shall be effective in respect
of other officers is given in Schedule Two (II).
16. Absorption to the new Grade system:
16.1. All officers in Class Three (III) who are in service as at the effective date of this minute shall be absorbed
to Grade Three (III) of the service;
16.2. All officers in Class Two (II) who are in service as at the effective date of this minute shall be absorbed to
Grade Two (II) of the service;
16.3. All officers in Class One (I) who are in service as at the effective date of this minute shall be absorbed to
Grade One (I) of the service

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
12A
16.4. All officers in the special Grade of the service as at the effective date of this minute shall be absorbed to the
Special Grade of the service.
17. Skills Development:
Capacity Building shall be an on-going process and the development of knowledge, skills and attitudes required
for the performance of the general role of the service is expected of it. The capacity building process takes two forms as
Induction Training and In- service training.
17.1. Induction Training:
(a) Every officer appointed to the service should successfully complete the Diploma Course on Public
Administration conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration or any other
higher education/ training institute organized and approved by the Secretary and obtain the relevant
certificate. This training should commence from the date of appointment itself.
(b) Every officer will be assisted by the Induction Training to acquire proficiency in the two official
languages of Sinhala and Tamil. It will also provide them an opportunity to gain an understanding of
development trends in social, economic, political, legal, cultural and international environments as
relevant to the performance of the general functions of the service. At the end of the induction
training, 40% marks or above should be obtained in the subject of English Language which will be
conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration as a part of the Diploma Course.
(c) During the period of induction training, a cadet shall be subjected to the supervision and control of
the head of the training institute to which he is attached.
(d) Any cadet officer who is appointed to the service under the open stream and who fails the examination
held at the Induction Training shall be discontinued. Any cadet officer who is appointed to the service
under the limited and skills streams and who fails in the examination held at the end of the induction
training shall be reverted to his former post in the public service.
17.2. In-Service Training:
In-Service training shall provide continuous opportunities for an officer to acquire professionalism in his
career. These training courses shall address the responsibilities entrusted to the four (04) Grades of the
service and their professional advancement. These training courses shall be prepared with focus on the
basic skills identified for the service.
(a) Capacity Building Level-III
This training is applicable to officers in Grade Three (III) of the service. This requirement should be
fulfilled by successfully completing and obtaining the  certificate of the Course in Capacity Building
Level III conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration or by any other higher
education/training institute, with approval of the Secretary.
(b) Capacity Building Level-II
This training is applicable to officers in Grade Two (II) of the service. This requirement should be
fulfilled by successfully completing and obtaining the certificate of the Course in Capacity Building
Level II conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration or by any other higher
education/training institute with approval of the Secretary.
(c) Capacity Building Level-I
This training is applicable to officers in Grade One (I) of the service. This requirement should be
fulfilled by successfully completing and obtaining the certificate of the Course in Capacity Building
Level I conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration or by any other higher
education/ training institute, with approval of the Secretary.
(d) Policy level
This requirement should be fulfilled by Special Grade officers in the service by successfully completing
local or foreign training programs and courses.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
13A
18. Appointment to service and promotion to Grades:
Appointment to the service and promotions to Grades and other related activities shall be done strictly in accordance
with the methodology stipulated in this Minute.
19. An officer of the service may be appointed to a post stipulated in Appendix “A” of this Minute and he shall be
bound to serve in any part of the Island.
20. In addition to provisions stipulated in this Minute, every officer shall be subjected to provisions of the
Establishments Code and the procedural Rules No. 1589/30 dated 20th February, 2009 published by the Public Service,
Commission.
21. Transfers of officers of this service will be effective according to the transfer policy approved by the Public
Services Commission.
22. In addition, all officers shall duly acquire the necessary proficiencies and skills which may be decided by the
Government from time to time.
23. Any matter not provided for in this Minute shall be determined by the Commission as per recommendations by
the Secretary in that regard.
First (I) Schedule
Appendix “A”
The Schedule of the Post of Sri Lanka Administrative Service
Special Grade
No. Posts Ministry/ Department
1. Secretary Public Service Commission
2. Secretary National Police Commission
3. Secretary Commission to  Investigate Allegation of Bribery or
Corruption
4. Secretary National Salary and Cadre Commission
5. Additional Secretary Presidential Secretariat
6. Additional Secretary Prime Minister's Office
7. Additional Secretary Office of Cabinet of Ministers
8. Additional Secretary Public Services Commission
9. Additional Secretary Senior Minister's Office
10. Additional Secretaries Ministries
11. Director General Combined Service Division , Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs
12. Director General Establishments Division, Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs
13. Government Agent/ District Secretary Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
14. Director General Ministry of Finance and Planning
15. Commissioner  General Department of Buddhist Affairs
16. Commissioner General Department of Agrarian Development
17. Commissioner General Department of Excise

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
14A
18. Commissioner General Department of Labour
19. Commissioner General Department of Land Commissioner General
20. Commissioner General Department of Land Settlement
21. Commissioner General Department of Land Use Policy Planning
22. Commissioner General Department of Motor Traffic
23. Commissioner General Department of Registration of Persons
24. Commissioner General Department of Samurdhi Commissioner General
25. Commissioner General Department of Prisons
26. Controller Genera l Department of Immigration and Emigration
27. Director General Department of Public Enterprises
28. Director General Department of Customs
29. Director General Department of External Resources
30. Director General Department of Fiscal Policy
31. Director General Department of Government Information
32. Director General Department of Management Services
33. Director General Department of Manpower and Employment
34. Director General Department of National Budget
35. Director General Department of Pensions
36. Director General Department of Public Finance
37. Director General Department of Rubber Development
38. Director General Department of Sports Development
39. Director General Department of Trade, Tariff and Investment Policy
40. Post Master General Department of Posts
41. Additional Commissioner General Department of Agrarian Development
42. Additional Commissioner General Department of Labour
43. Additional Commissioner Department of Elections
44. Additional  Director General Department of Trade, Tariff and Investment Policy
45. Additional Director General Department of Customs
46. Additional Director General Department of External Resources
47. Additional Director General Department of Public Enterprises
48. Additional Director General Department of Fiscal Policy
49. Additional Director General Department of Management Services
50. Additional Director General Department of National Budget
51. Additional Director General Department of National Planning
52. Additional Director General Department of Public Finance
53. Additional Director General (Administration) Department of Census and Statistics
54. Additional Director General (Administration) Department of Agriculture
55. Additional Director General (Administration) Department of Irrigation
56. Additional Director General (Administration) Department of Archaeology
57. Additional Director General (Administration) Department of Technical Education and Training
58. Additional Surveyor General Department of Survey
(Human Resources and Administration)
No. Posts Ministry/ Department

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
15A
59. Additional General Manager (Administration) Department of Sri Lanka Railways
60. Additional Government Printer (Administration) Department of Government Printing
61. Additional Public Trustee Department of Public Trustee
62. Additional Forest Conservative General Department of Forest
(Administration)
Provincial Councils
63. Secretaries Provincial Public Service Commissions
64. Secretaries Governor’s Offices
65. Secretaries Council Offices of the Province
66. Secretaries Provincial Ministries
67. Deputy Chief Secretaries (Administration) Chief Secretary’s Offices
68. Deputy Chief Secretaries (Personnel and Training) Chief Secretary’s Offices
SLAS  -Grade I
No. Posts Ministry/ Department
1. Secretary Co-operative Employee’s Commission
2. Secretary Mediation Boards Commission
3. Secretary Labour Tribunal Commission
4. Senior Assistant Secretaries Presidential Secretariat
5. Senior Assistant Secretaries Prime Minister’s Office
6. Senior Assistant Secretaries Office of Cabinet of Ministers
7. Senior Assistant Secretary Office of the Chief Government Whip of  Parliament
8. Senior Assistant Secretary Office of the Leader of the House of Parliament
9. Senior Assistant Secretary Public Service Commission
10. Senior Assistant Secretary Senior Minister's Office
11. Senior Assistant Secretary National Police Commission
12. Director (Administration) Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or
Corruption
13. Director National Police Commission
14. Regional Director National Police Commission
15. Director Finance Commission
16. Senior Assistant Secretaries Ministries
17. Directors Ministries
18. Director Combined Services Division, Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs
19. Director Establishments Division, Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs
20. Additional District Secretary Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
21. Additional District Secretary (Land) Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
22. Divisional Secretary Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
No. Posts Ministry/ Department

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
16A
23. Director General (Administration) Minister of External Affairs
24. Deputy Director General Ministry of Health
25. Additional Director Department of Social Services
26. Senior Deputy Registrar General (Administration) Department of Registrar General
27. Commissioner Department of Motor Traffic
28. Commissioner Department of Excise
29. Commissioner Department of Agrarian Development
30. Commissioner Department of Ayurveda
31. Commissioner Department of Buddhist Affairs
32. Commissioner Department of Co-operative Development
33. Commissioner Department of Food
34. Commissioner Department of Labour
35. Commissioner Department of Land Commissioner General
36. Commissioner Department of Land Settlement
37. Commissioner Department of Official Languages
38. Commissioner Department of Probation and Child Care Services
39. Commissioner Department of Registration of Persons
40. Commissioner Department of Commissioner of General of Samurdhi
41. Commissioner Department of Community Based Correction
42. Commissioner Department of Up-Country Peasantry Rehabilitation
43. Commissioner (Establishment) Department of Prisons
44. Deputy Commissioner Department of  Elections
45. Senior Assistant Commissioner Department of  Elections
46. Controller Department of Immigration and Emigration
47. Controller Department of Import and Export
48. Additional Controller (Import and Export) Department of Import and Export
49. Deputy Post Master General Department of Posts
50. Director Department of Cultural Affairs
51. Director Department of Christian Religious Affairs
52. Director  Department of Customs
53. Director Department of External Resources
54. Director Department of Fiscal Policy
55. Director Department of Government Information
56. Director Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs
57. Director Department of Land Use Policy Planning
58. Director Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs
59. Director Department of Management Services
60. Director Department of Manpower & Employment
61. Director Department of Public Enterprises
62. Director Department of Project Management and Monitoring
63. Director Department of National Budget
No. Posts Ministry/ Department

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
17A
64. Director Department of National Planning
65. Director Department of Pension
66. Director Department of Public Finance
67. Director Department of Rubber Development
68. Director Department of Social Services
69. Director (Administration and Accounts) Department of Sports Development
70. Director Department of Textile Industries
71. Director Department of Trade, Tariff and Investment Policy
72. Director National Institute for Indigenous Medicine
73. Director Children’s Secretariat
74. Director National Council for Persons with Disabilities
75. Director National Disaster Relief Services Centre
76. Director Secretariat for Non-Governmental Organizations
77. Director National Productivity Secretariat
78. Director Sri Lanka Women’s Bureau
79. Director Rural Development Training and Research Institute
80. Director Folk Art Center
81. Director National Leadership Development Center
82. Director(Administration) Director General’s Office of Merchant Shipping
83. Director(Administration) Department of Export Agriculture
84. Director(Administration) Department of Animal Production & Health
85. Director(Administration) Department of Buildings
86. Director(Administration) Department of Census and Statistics
87. Director(Administration) Department of Technical Education and Training
88. Director(Administration) Department of Irrigation
89. Director(Administration) Department of Agriculture
90. Director(Administration) Department of Archaeology
91. Director(Administration) Department of Auditor General
92. Director(Administration) Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
93. Director(Administration) Department of Coast Conservation
94. Director(Administration) Department of Inland Revenue
95. Director(Administration) Department of National Botanical Gardens
96. Director(Administration) Department of National Physical Planning
97. Director(Administration) Department of Wildlife Conservation
98. Director(Administration) Department of Government Analyst
99. Director(Administration) Department of Meteorology
100. Director(Administration) Department of Valuation
101. Director (Civil Administration ) Department of Civil Security
102. Director (Civil Administration ) Sri Lanka Army
103. Director (Civil Administration ) Sri Lanka Navy
104. Director (Civil Administration ) Sri Lanka Air Force
No. Posts Ministry/ Department

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
18A
105. Director (Civil Administration ) Department of Police
106. Additional Director (Administration) Department of National Zoological Garden
107. Director(Administration) Sri Lanka Railways
108. Deputy General Manager (Administration) Sri Lanka Railways
109. Forest Conservator (Personnel and Administration) Department of Forests
110. Senior  Deputy Survey General (Administration) Department of Survey
111. Civil Administrative Officer Defence Services Command and Staff College
Provincial Councils
112. Municipal Commissioner Col ombo, Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte, Akkareipattu,
Kalmunai, Dambulla, Moratuwa, Dehiwala - Mount
Lavinia,  Negombo, Gampaha, Batticaloa, Jaffna, Galle,
Kurunegala, Ratnapura, Kandy, Matale, Nuwara Eliya,
Badulla, Matara, Anuradhapura, Hambanthota ,
Bandarawela, Kaduwela Municipal Councils
113. Charity Commissioner Department of Public Assistance, Colombo Municipal
Council
114. Director Department of Human Resource Development, Colombo
Municipal Council
115. Director Department of Social Services and Development, Colombo
Municipal Council
116. Municipal Secretary Colombo Municipal Council
117. Deputy Municipal Commissioner Colombo Municipal Council
118. Senior Assistant Secretary Chief Ministries
119. Commissioners Provincial Departments
120. Directors Provincial Departments
121. Additional Regional Education Director Regional Education Ministries
(Administration)
SLAS - Grade II
No. Posts Ministry/ Department
1. Deputy Secretary Public Service Commission
2. Deputy Director (Administration) Fi nance Commission
3. Deputy Directors Ministries
4. Deputy Directors Regional Centers, Ministry of Industry and Commerce
5. Deputy Commissioner Department of Agrarian Development
6. Deputy Commissioner Department of Ayurveda
7. Deputy Commissioner Department of Buddhist Affairs
8. Deputy Commissioner Department of Commissioner General of Samurdhi
9. Deputy Commissioner Department of Co-operative Development
No. Posts Ministry/ Department

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
19A
10. Deputy Commissioner Department of Excise
11. Deputy Commissioner Department of Food
12. Deputy Commissioner Department of Labour
13. Deputy Commissioner Department of Land Commissioner General
14. Deputy Commissioner Department of Land Settlement
15. Deputy Commissioner Department of Motor Traffic
16. Deputy Commissioner Department of Official Languages
17. Deputy Commissioner Department of Probation and Child Care Service
18. Deputy Commissioner Department of Registration of Persons
19. Deputy Commissioner Department of Community Based Correction
20. Deputy Commissioner Department of Up-Country Peasantry Rehabilitation
21. Deputy Controller Department of Immigration and Emigration
22. Deputy Controller Department of Import and Export Control
23. Deputy Director Department of National Planning
24. Deputy Director Department of Cultural Affairs
25. Deputy Director Department of Customs
26. Deputy Director Department of External Resources
27. Deputy Director Department of Fiscal Policy
28. Deputy Director Department of Trade, Tariff and Investment Policy
29. Deputy Director Department of Government Information
30. Deputy Director Department of Christian Religious Affairs
31. Deputy Director Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs
32. Deputy Director Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs
33. Deputy Director Department of Management Services
34. Deputy Director Department of Manpower and Employment
35. Deputy Director Department of National Budget
36. Deputy Director Department of Pension
37. Deputy Director Department of Public Finance
38. Deputy Director Department of Rubber Development
39. Deputy Director Department of Social Services
40. Deputy Director Department of Sports Development
41. Deputy Director (Administration) Departm ent of State Accounts
42. Deputy Director Department of Textile Industries
43. Deputy Director National Productivity Secretariat
44. Deputy Director National Secretariat for Disables
45. Deputy Director Sri Lanka Women’s Bureau
46. Deputy Director Rural Development Training and Research Institute
47. Deputy Director Department of Project Management and Monitoring
48. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Agriculture
49. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Animal Production and Health
50. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Buildings
No. Posts Ministry/ Department

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
20A
51. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Coast Conservation
52. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
53. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Export Agriculture
54. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Technical Education and Training
55. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Meteorology
56. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of National Physical Planning
57. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Wildlife Conservation
58. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Land Use Policy Planning
59. Deputy Director (Administration) Department of Irrigation
60. Deputy Director (Administration) Sri Lanka General Hospital, Colombo
61. Deputy Government Printer (Administration) Department of Government Printer
62. Deputy Register General (Administration) Department of Registrar General
Provincial Councils
63. Commissioners Provincial Departments
64. Directors Provincial Departments
65. Provincial Registrar of Companies Provincial Office of the Registrar of Companies
66. Deputy Commissioners Provincial Departments
67. Deputy Directors Provincial Departments
68. Secretaries Provincial Co-operative Employees Commissions
69. Assistant Secretaries Provincial Governor Office
70. Assistant Secretaries Provincial Council Secretariat Office
71. Assistant Secretaries Provincial Ministries
72. Assistant Secretaries Chief Secretary’s Offices
73. Assistant Secretaries Provincial Public Service Commissions
74. Deputy Municipal Commissioner Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte, Moratuwa, Negombo,
Dehiwala - Mount Lavinia, Gampaha, Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Galle, Kurunegala, Mathara, Anuradhapura, Hambanthota,
Kaduwela, Kandy, Bandarawela, Ratnapura, Kalmune,
Badulla Municipal Councils
75. Municipal Secretary Kandy, Nuwara Eliya, Dambulla, Batticaloa, Akkarai Pattu,
Kalmunai, Anuradhapura, Kurunegala, Jaffna, Ratnapura,
Galle, Matara, Hambanthota, Badulla, Dehiwala – Mount
Lavinia, Moratuwa, Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte, Kotte,
Gampaha, Negambo, Kaduwela, Matale, Bandarawela
Municipal Councils
76. Deputy Municipal Commissioner Colombo Municipal Council
77. Assistant Municipal Commissioner Colombo, Dehiwala – Mount Lavinia, Sri Jayawardenapura
Kotte Municipal Council
78. Deputy Director (Solid Waste) Department of Social Services and Development, Colombo
Municipal Council
No. Posts Ministry/ Department

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
21A
SLAS - Grade III
No. Posts Ministry/ Department
1. Assistant Secretary Presidential Secretariat
2. Assistant Secretary Prime Minister’s Office
3. Assistant Secretary Office of Cabinet of Ministers
4. Assistant Secretary Judicial Service Commission
5. Assistant Secretary Public Service Commission
6. Assistant Secretary National Police Commission
7. Assistant Secretary Finance Commission
8. Assistant Secretary Mediation Boards Commission
9. Assistant Secretary Senior Minister’s Office
10. Assistant Secretary National Salary and Cadre Commission
11. Assistant Secretary Office of Leader House of Parliament
12. Assistant Secretary Office of the Chief Government Whip of Parliament
13. Assistant Secretary Office of the Leader of the Opposition of Parliament
14. Assistant Secretaries Ministries
15. Assistant Directors Ministries
16. Assistant Director Combined Services Division, Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs
17. Assistant Director Establishment Division, Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs
18. Assistant Divisional Secretary Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
19. Assistant District Secretary Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
20. Assistant Director Regional Centers, Ministry of Industry and Commerce
21. Director Ministry of Health
22. Assistant Commissioner Department of Agrarian Development
23. Assistant Commissioner Department of Ayurveda
24. Assistant Commissioner Department of Buddhist Affairs
25. Assistant Commissioner Department of Commissioner of General of Samurdhi
26. Assistant Commissioner Department of Co-operative Development
27. Assistant Commissioner Department of Election
28. Assistant Commissioner Department of Food
29. Assistant Commissioner Department of Labour
30. Assistant Commissioner Department of Land Settlement
31. Assistant Commissioner Department of Motor Traffic
32. Assistant Commissioner Department of Official Languages
33. Assistant Commissioner Department of Probation and Child Care Services
34. Assistant Commissioner Department of Registration of Persons
35. Assistant Commissioner  Department of Up-Country Peasantry Rehabilitation
36. Assistant Commissioner Department of Community Based Correction
37. Assistant Commissioner Department of Land Commissioner General
38. Assistant Commissioner Department of Prisons

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
22A
39. Assistant Controller Department of Immigration and Emigration
40. Assistant Controller Department of Imports and Exports Control
41. Assistant Director Department of Christian Religious Affairs
42. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Archaeology
43. Assistant Director Department of Cultural Affairs
44. Assistant Director Department of Customs
45. Assistant Director Department of External Resources
46. Assistant Director Department of Fiscal Policy
47. Assistant Director Department of Government Information
48. Assistant Director Department of Hindu Religion and Cultural Affairs
49. Assistant Director Department of Legal Affairs
50. Assistant Director Department of Management Audit
51. Assistant Director Department of Management Services
52. Assistant Director Department of Manpower and Employment
53. Assistant Director Department of Muslim Religion and Cultural Affairs
54. Assistant Director Department of National Budget
55. Assistant Director Department of Public Enterprises
56. Assistant Director Department of National Planning
57. Assistant Director Department of Pensions
58. Assistant Director Department of Public Finance
59. Assistant Director Department of Rubber Development
60. Assistant Director Department of Social Service
61. Assistant Director Department of Sports Development
62. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of State Accounts
63. Assistant Director Department of Textile Industries
64. Assistant Director Department of Trade, Tariff and Investment Policy
65. Assistant Director Department of Treasury Operation
66. Assistant Director Department of Project Management and Monitoring
67. Assistant Director National Institute for Indigenous Medicine
68. Assistant Director National Disaster Relief Services Centre
69. Assistant Director Secretariat for Non  Governmental   Organizations
70. Assistant Director Director General’s Office of Merchant Shipping
71. Assistant Director Sri Lanka Women’s Bureau
72. Assistant Director Children’s Secretariat
73. Assistant Director Rural Development Training and Research Institute
74. Assistant Director Sports medical Institute
75. Assistant Director National Leadership Development Center
76. Assistant Director National Secretariat for Persons with Disabilities
77. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Agriculture
78. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Civil Security
79. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
No. Posts Ministry/ Department

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
23A
80. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of National Archives
81. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of National Museums
82. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of National Zoological Garden
83. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of National Botanical Gardens
84. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Census and Statistics
85. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Legal Draftsman
86. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Measurement Unit, Standard and Services
87. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Survey
88. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Wild Life Conservation
89. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Auditor General
90. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Sri Lanka Railways
91. Assistant Director (Administration) Department of Technical Education and Training
92. Assistant Director (Land) Department of Irrigation
93. Assistant Director (Land Use) Department of Land Use Policy Planning
94. Assistant Director (Civil Administration ) Sri Lanka Army
95. Assistant Director (Civil Administration ) Department of Police
96. Assistant Forest Conservator (Administration) Department of Forests
97. Assistant Manager (Administration) Government Factory
Provincial Councils
98. Assistant Secretaries Provincial Ministries
99. Deputy Commissioners Provincial Departments
100. Deputy Directors Provincial Departments
101. Assistant Commissioners Provincial Departments
102. Assistant Directors Provincial Departments
103. Assistant Secretary Colombo, Kandy Municipal Councils
104. Secretary Ambalangoda, Hikkaduwa, Gampola, Weligama,
Embilipitiya, Tangalle,  Kattankudi, Boralesgamuwa,
Kesbewa, Maharagama, Seethawakapura, Ja - Ela,
Katunayaka - Seeduwa, Minuwangoda, Peliyagoda,
Wattala - Mabole, Puttalam, Chilaw, Chavakachcheri,
Kadugannawa, Wattegama, Kuliyapitiya, Talawakele -
Lindula, Kinniya, Haputale, Beruwala, Horana, Kalutara,
Panadura, Mannar, Velvettiturei, Kolonnawa, Ampara,
Trincomalee, vavunia, Point Pedro, Nawalapitiya,
Balangoda, Kegalle, Hatton – Dickoya, Eravur Urban
Councils
105. Assistant Municipal Commissioner Colombo Municipal Council
106. Assistant Charity Commissioner Department of Public Assistance, Colombo Municipal
Council
107. Assistant Secretary Department of Municipal Treasury, Colombo Municipal
Council
108. Assistant Secretary Department of Fire Service, Colombo Municipal Council
No. Posts Ministry/ Department

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
24A
109. Assistant Secretary Department of Municipal Assessor, Colombo Municipal
Council
110. Assistant Secretary Department of Public Health, Colombo Municipal Council
111. Assistant Secretary Department of Municipal Engineer, Colombo Municipal
Council
112. Director Department of Central Procurement, Colombo Municipal
Council
113. Director Department of Play Ground and Recreation, Colombo
Municipal Council
114. Assistant Director Department of Social Services and Development, Colombo
Municipal Council
 Posts approved by the Department of Management Services for the Sri Lanka Administrative Service belong to this service.
Appendix “B”
Syllabus of the Open Competitive Written Examination conducted for recruitment to Grade Three (III) of the Sri Lanka
Administrative Service
1. This examination consists of five (05) question papers as follows:
(i) General Intelligence
(ii) Social, Economic, Political background and trends in Sri Lanka
(iii) Global Trends
(iv) Managerial Aptitude
(v) Creative, Analytical and Communicative Skills
2. Syllabus
(i) General Intelligence
It is expected to assess the capacity of the candidate in analytical skills, logical comprehension, interpretative
ability, ability in application to other situations and arriving at conclusions in response to problems
presented to the candidate in relation to numerical, lingual and figurative structures and inter-relations.
(Duration : 1 ½ hrs. – 100 marks.  This paper will consist of Multiple Choice Questions)
(ii) Social, Economic, Political background and trends in Sri Lanka
It is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge of the social, economic, political, cultural, scientific and
technological conditions in Sri Lanka or his ability to think creatively, analytically and critically  and the
ability to decide priority and strategic projection in response to situations presented to him.
(Duration 3 hours – 100 marks.  This paper will consist of multiple choice questions, short questions,
questions on structural essay and essays).
(iii) Global Trends
It is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge of the global economic, political, cultural, scientific and
technological conditions or his ability to think creatively, analytically and critically  and the ability to
decide priority and strategic projection in response to situations presented to him.
 (Duration– 3 hours- 100 marks. This paper will consist of multiple choice questions, short questions, questions on
structural essays and essays.)
No. Posts Ministry/ Department

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
25A
(iv) Managerial Aptitude
It is expected to test the candidate’s skills in identifying problems and their reasons, decision making,
maintaining inter-personal relationships, communicative ability, formulation of self-disciplinary policies
and strategies and innate wisdom etc. in response to situations presented to him.
(Duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This paper will consist of multiple choice questions, short questions,
questions on structural essays and essays.)
(v) Creative, Analytical and Communicative Skills
It is expected to test the candidate’s ability for reasoning and imagination in relation to the analyzing,
collating and presenting of information on a topic/theme selected by the candidate from a given set of
topics/ themes; and the ability to comprehend a  complex passage, a piece of writing or a memorandum and
express the salient ideas thereof concisely, clearly and accurately in the candidate’s own words.
 (Duration 3 hours – 100 marks)
Appendix  “C”
Syllabus of the Limited Competitive Written Examination conducted for recruitment to Grade Three (III) of the Sri
Lanka Administrative Service
3. This examination consists of four (04) question papers as follows:
(i) General Intelligence,
(ii) Social, Economic and Political background  in Sri Lanka and Global Trends,
(iii) Case Study relating to Public Administration I (Relevant to Establishments Code and Financial
Regulations),
(iv) Case Study relating to Public Administration II (Relevant to the evaluation of creative, analytical and
communicative skills).
2. Syllabus
(i) General Intelligence:
It is expected to assess the capacity of the candidate in analytical skills, logical comprehension, interpretative
ability, ability in application to other situations and arriving at conclusions in response to problems
presented to the candidate in relation to numerical, lingual and figurative structures and inter-relations.
(Duration : 1 ½ hrs. – 100 marks.  This paper will consist of Multiple Choice Questions)
(ii) Social, Economic, Political background and trends in Sri Lanka
It is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge of the social, economic, political, cultural, scientific and
technological conditions in Sri Lanka or his ability to think creatively, analytically and critically  and the
ability to decide priority and strategic projection in response to situations presented to him.
(Duration 3 hours – 100 marks.  This paper will consist of multiple choice questions, short questions,
questions on structural essays and essays).
(iii) Case Studies relevant to Public Administration I (Relating to the Establishments Code, Public Services
Commission procedural rules and Financial Regulations)
It is expected to test the candidate’s creative thinking power and problem solving ability in  terms of the
practice of government service as per the Establishments Code  and  the Financial Regulations by presenting
to him a case/ cases built up connecting one or several problems that may arise in different environments
in the public service.
(Duration 3 hours – 100 marks.  This paper will consist of multiple choice questions, short questions,
questions on structural essays and essays)

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
26A
(iv) Case Studies relevant to Public Administration II (Relevant to the evaluation of  Creative, Analytical and
Communicative Skills)
It is expected to test the candidate’s ability for reasoning and imagination in relation to the analyzing,
collating and presenting of information on a topic/theme selected by the candidate from a given set of
topics/ themes; and the ability to comprehend a  complex passage, a piece of writing or a memorandum and
express the salient ideas thereof concisely, clearly and accurately in the candidate’s own words.
 (Duration 3 hours – 100 marks)
Appendix  “D”
Syllabus of the Merit Competitive Written Examination conducted for recruitment to Grade Three (III) of the Sri Lanka
Administrative Service
1.This examination consists of three (03) question papers as follows:
(i) General Intelligence,
(ii) Establishments Code, Public Services Commission Procedural Rules,
(iii) Government Financial Regulations and Procurement Process .
2. Syllabus
(i) General Intelligence
It is expected to assess the capacity of the candidate in analytical skills, logical comprehension, interpretative
ability, ability in application to other situations and arriving at conclusions in response to problems
presented to the candidate in relation to numerical, lingual and figurative structures and inter-relations.
(Duration : 1 ½ hrs. – 100 marks.  This paper will consist of Multiple Choice Questions)
(ii) Establishments Code, Public Services Commission Procedural Rules
It is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge of the Establishments Code and the Procedural Rules of
the Public Services Commission.
(Duration 3 hours – 100 marks.  This paper will consist of multiple choice questions, short questions,
questions on structural essays and essays)
(iii) Government Financial Regulations and Procurement Process
It is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge of the Government Financial Regulations and the
Procurement Process.
(Duration 3 hours – 100 marks.  This paper will consist of multiple choice questions, short questions,
questions on structural essays and essays)
Appendix  “E”
System of allocating marks in appointing  to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service under the Merit
Stream
(1) Marks for seniority will be calculated as follows:
(a) (i)  Ten (10) marks each for every year served in a supra class post in the Management Assistant Service
(ii)Eight (08) marks  each for every year after the active period of twenty (20) years service for Class I
Officers of Management Assistant Service
(b) Marks will be awarded for the active and satisfactory period of service only.
(c) No marks will be allocated  for any period less than six months. However, five (05) marks will be allocated
to a supra class officer in the Management Assistance Service  and four (04) marks will be allocated to a
Class I officer of the Management Assistant Service for  a period of service of more than six months and
less than one year.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
27A
(d) Dates on which appointments were made to any post on supernumerary basis or on which appointments
were pre-dated will not be considered in the calculation of marks for seniority and for such purposes the
period of service will be calculated on the basis of the date on which duties were assumed on the relevant
post.
(e) In the calculation of marks for the seniority of a supra class officer in the Public Management Assistant
Service or in a Provincial Public Management Service as above, marks will also be allocated in respect of
any period that is covered by (a) (ii) above.
Appendix  “F”
Specimen Application Forms to be completed at the General Interview
Appearing for the General Interview under the Open Stream
1. Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil): ………………………………………………………………………………………
2. Name in full (in English block letters): ………………………………………………………………………………………
3. Permanent Address (in Sinhala/Tamil): ………………………………………………………..……………………………..
4. Permanent Address (in English block letters) : ……………………………………………………………………………
5. Sex: ……………………………
6. Marital Status: ……………………………
7. NIC No.: ……………………………
8. Date of Birth:
Year: Month : Date:
9. Age according to sub-para 10.2.4 (a) of the Minute:
Years: Months :  Days:
10. If appeared previously for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, state the stream appeared in and
the year/years of appearance:
Stream Y ear
11. Details of the Degree:
(i) University/Institute: ……………………………………………………….…...
(ii) Registered Number: …………………………………………………….……....
(iii) Whether an external/internal student:………………………………….…….
(iv) Degree: …………………………………………………………….………………
(v) Date of validity of the Degree: ………………………………………………..
(vi) Subject Area: .…………………………………………...…………….…………

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
28A
(vii) Class: ……………………………………………………………………….
(viii) Index No.: ……………………………...………………………………..….
(ix) Medium appeared in: ……………………………………………………….
I certify that the particulars furnished above are true and correct according to my knowledge and belief.
……….………………………  …………………………
Date Signature of Candidate
Appearing for the General Interview under the Limited Stream
1. Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil): ………………………………………………………………………………………
2. Name in full (in English block letters): ………………………………………………………………………………………
3. Present Official Address (in Sinhala/Tamil):
………………………………………………………………………………………
4. Present Official Address (in English block letters):
………………………………………………………………………………………
5. Permanent Address (in Sinhala/Tamil): ………………………………………………………..……………………………..
6. Permanent Address (in English block letters):
………………………………………………………………………………………
7. Sex: ……………………………
8. Marital Status: ……………………………
9. NIC  No.: ……………………………
10. Date of Birth:
Year: Month : Date:
11. Age according to sub-para 10.2.4 (b) of the Minute:
Years: Months :  Days:
12.
(i) Service/ post eligible to apply for as per provisions in sub-para 10.2.3 (b) of the Minute : ……………………
(ii) Whether such service/ post belongs to the Public Service or the Provincial Public Service: …………………..
(iii)  Salary Code No. applicable to such Service/ Post: …………………………..
13.  If several periods of service are relevant for eligibility to apply as stipulated in Note I of the Minute, particulars of
such permanent and continuous periods of service:
Service/ Salary Date of Date of Period of Service T otal
Post Code No./ recruitment/ confirmation Period of
Salary Group app ointment From To Service
YM DYM DY MD
(i) Present
service/
post
(ii)

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
29A
14. If applied under provisions stipulated in sub-para 10.2.3 (b)(i)/(ii)/(iii) of the Minutes, details of the Degree:
(i) University/ Institute :………………………………………
(ii) Registered Number :………………………………………
(iii) Whether an external/internal student :…………….…………………
(iv) Degree :………………………………………
(v) Date of validity of the Degree :………………………………………
(vi) Subject Area :………………………………………
(vii) Class :………………………………………
(viii) Index No. :………………………………………
(ix) Medium appeared in :………………………………………
15. If appeared previously for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, state the stream appeared in and
the year/years of appearance:
   Stream        Year
I hereby declare and affirm that I have earned all the increments due (except for the increment for which the passing
of service or Departmental Examinations is a condition) during the five years immediately preceding the date stipulated in the
Gazette as the date by which all the qualifications should have been fulfilled in order to sit for the examination as mentioned
in sub-para 10.2.3(b) (v) of the Minute and that I  have not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment other than warning
and that the particulars furnished by me above are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
……….………………………  …………………………
Date Signature of candidate
Appearing for the General Interview under the Merit Stream
1. Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil):    ………………………………………………………………………
2. Name in full (in English block letters): ………………………………………………………………………………………
3. Present Official Address (in Sinhala/Tamil): ………………………………………………………………………………
4. Present Official Address (in English block letters): …………………………………………………………………………
5. Permanent Address (in Sinhala/Tamil): ………………………………………………………..……………………………..
6. Permanent Address (in English block letters): ………………………………………………………………………………
7. Sex: ……………………………
8. Marital Status: ……………………………
9. NIC No.: ……………………………

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
30A
10. Date of Birth:
Year: Month : Date:
11. Age according to sub-para 10.2.4 (c) of the Minute:
Year: Month : Date:
12. (i) Date of first appointment:……………………….
(ii) Whether confirmed in service: Yes/No
13.
(i) Service/post qualified for applying as per provisions stipulated in 10.2.3© of the Minute: ………………….
(ii) To which Public Service/Provincial Public Service that service/post belongs: …………………………………
(iii) Salary Code No. of that service/post: ………………………
14. If a number of periods of service are relevant for eligibility to apply as stipulated in Note: I of the minute, details
of such permanent and continued periods of service:
Service/post Date If appointment is pre-
dated, the date and manner
(i) First appointment
(ii) PMAS Class II
(iii) PMAS Class I
(iv) PMAS Supra Class
15. If appeared previously for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, state the stream appeared in and
the year/years of appearance:
Stream Y ear
I, hereby declare and affirm that I have earned all the increments due (except for the increment for which the passing
of service or Departmental Examinations is a condition) during the five years immediately preceding the date stipulated in the
Gazette as the date by which all the qualifications should have been fulfilled in order to sit for the examination as mentioned
in sub-para 10.2.3 (c) (iii) of the Minute and that I  have not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment other than warning
and that the particulars furnished by me above are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
……….………………………  …………………………
Date Signature of Candidate.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
31A
Appendix “G”
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination conducted for officers in Grade Three (III) of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service
1. The First (01) Efficiency Bar Examination shall consist of the following subjects:–
(i) Law - 100 marks
(ii) Administration - 100 marks
(iii) Economics and Social Science - 100 marks
(iv) Financial Management and Procurement Procedure in the Public Sector- 100 marks
2. Syllabus
(i) Law
There will be three (03) question papers based on the following matters:–
First (01) Paper – Constitutional Law and Administrative Law
(i) Structure of the Constitution of Sri Lanka with historical development and the Second Republican
Constitution.
(ii) The Executive President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Public
Service.
(iii) Administration of Justice
(iv) Judicial Control over Administration
(v) Directive Principles of the State Policy and Fundamental Duties
(vi) Delegated Legislation
(vii) Liability of the State and the Public Authorities
(viii) Fundamental Rights
Second (II) Paper – Legal Systems of Sri Lanka
(i) Administration of Justice
(ii) The Legal History of Sri Lanka
(iii) The Organization of the Courts
(iv) The Courts Ordinance of Sri Lanka (Chapter 6)
(v) The Administration of Justice Act, No. 44 of 1971
Third (III) Paper – Criminal Law and Law of Evidence
(i) The Penal Code
(ii) The Evidence Ordinance
A candidate shall be required to obtain a minimum of thirty five (35) marks in each paper and an average of forty per cent
(40%) in order to pass the subject of Law.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
32A
(ii) Administration
There will be one paper based on the following:–
I. Office and field Organization and Methods
II. The following Chapters of the Establishments Code:
I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII,XLVII
and XLVIII
III. Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission
(iii) Economics and Sociology
This paper will consist of two Parts as follows:–
Part One (I) – Economics
(I) Principles of Economics with special reference to theories of Value, Production and Distribution.
(II) Money, Production and Distribution
(III) Economic Structure of Sri Lanka
Part Two (II) – Sociology
(I) Social Structure, organization and functions
(II) Human Relationships and Groupings
(III) Kinship, Marriage and the Family
(IV) Rural and Urban Society
(V) Social Stratification and Differentiation
(VI) Social Control
(VII) Culture, Religion, Morals and Values
In order to pass the subject of Economics and Sociology, a candidate shall be required to obtain a minimum
of twenty (20) marks in each Part.
(iv) Financial Management and Procurement Process in the Public Sector
There will be one paper based on the following matters:–
I. Financial Control in Sri Lanka
· Constitutional Provisions relating to the management of Public Finance
· Parliamentary Control on Public Finance
· The meaning of Funds
· The Consolidated Fund and its operation
· Meaning and Methods of Appropriation
· Contingencies Fund
· Other Funds and their operation
· Government Revenue
· Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance
· Powers and Functions of the Treasury

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
33A
* Warrants and Imprest Authority
* Auditor General, his Powers and Functions
* Committee on Public Accounts (COPA)
* Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE)
II. Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers, their
powers and functions/ accountability and nature of accountability.
III. Internal Audit
IV . Public Expenditure Planning and Management:
* Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
* Identification of Public Policies, goals, targets and Work Programmes
* Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and Prioritization of them
* Formulation and finalization of Annual Estimates of Revenue and\ Expenditure
V. Variations of Approved Estimates of Expenditure:
* Application of Virement Procedure
* Management of Public Sector Cadres and Salaries
* Total Cost Estimates and Revisions
* Supplementary Estimates
VI. Losses and Waivers of Government Properties
VII. Miscellaneous Accounting Matters
VIII. Delegation of Functions for Financial Control
IX. Custody of Public Money and Bank Accounts Procedure
X. Government Procurement Procedure:
* Government Procurement Manual
* Government Procurement Guidelines
3. An officer is permitted to sit for all the subjects prescribed for the First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination at one sitting or
for each subject separately or on several occasions.
4. The duration of each paper is three (03) hours.
5. To pass the First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination, a minimum of forty (40) marks should be obtained in each subject.
6. ( a) This Examination shall be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums.
(b) An applicant is permitted to sit for the Examination only in one language of his choice and subsequent change
of the medium given by the applicant in his application shall not be permitted.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
34A
Appendix “H”
Second (II) Efficiency Bar Examination conducted for Officers in Grade (II) of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service
1. The Second (II) Efficiency Bar Examination shall consist of the following subjects:
(i) Economic and Social Policy - 100 marks
(With special reference to Sri Lanka)
(ii) Process of Development Administration - 100 marks
(With special reference to Sri Lanka)
(iii) Use of Information and Communication Technology - 100 marks
For Development
(iv) Proficiency in the Link Language - 100 marks
2. Syllabus
(i) Economic and Social Policy (With special reference to Sri Lanka)
This Paper is based on matters affecting the formulation of economic and social policies using principles of
Economics and Social Science in the context of recent economic, social and political history of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Process of Development Administration (With special reference to Sri Lanka)
This Paper is based on the functioning and inter-relationships of institutes entrusted with the responsibility of
development administration, with special reference to the matters mentioned below:
I. State  machinery of Sri Lanka
II. Constitutional background of the State Machinery of Sri Lanka
III. Provincial Councils and Local Government Institutes
IV . People’s Organizations
V. Public Corporations
(iii) Use of Information and Communication Technology for Management
This is a practical test conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration to test the knowledge
of the Applicant in the following subject areas.
I. The importance of the use of Information and Communication Technology for state institutes
II.  Data Analysis and preparation of reports
III. Data Base Management and Retrieval of Information
IV . Use of Information and Communication Technology in Project Management
V. Preparation of Management Information Systems
(iv) Proficiency in the English Language
Scheme of Evaluation: Written Examination
Content: The following subject areas are suggested for the candidate’s reference:
• Communication Skills
The candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following language functions.
- General Greetings and introductions
- Giving and getting Information
- Advising, suggesting and expressing opinions
- Describing events and situations

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
35A
- Telephone Skills
- Interviewing Skills
- Expression skills
- Listening and Note Taking Skills
· •  Writing Skills
The knowledge of the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study.
- Internal Modes of Communication
- Formal Correspondence Skills
- Writing Descriptions/Explanations
- Grammar
- Summary Writing Skills
- Report Writing Skills
- Meeting Minutes/Agendas/Invitations
· •  Comprehension Skills
Candidate’s ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/ written interpretation is expected.
- Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text
- Reading and Interpretation (verbal/written)
- Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage
3. An officer is permitted to sit for all the subjects prescribed for the Second (II) Efficiency Bar Examination at one sitting
or for each subject separately or on several occasions.
4. The duration of each paper is three (03) hours.
5. To pass the Second (II) Efficiency Bar Examination, a minimum of  Forty (40) Marksshould be obtained in each
subject.
6. (a) This Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums.
(b) An Applicant is permitted to sit for the Examination only in one language of his choice and subsequent change
of the medium given by the Applicant in his application shall not be permitted.
Appendix “I”
Third (III) Efficiency Bar Examination conducted for Officers in Grade One (I) of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service
The requirement of passing the Third (III) Efficiency Bar Examination is fulfilled by successfully completing the
Capacity Building – Level - I Course conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration or any other Higher
Educational/Training Institute and obtaining the relevant certificate.
Second (II) Schedule
Interim Provisions
1. General Conditions:
2. 1.1 Interim Period
The interim period will be effective up to 01
st  July, 2015.
1.2 Confirmation in Service:
In respect of officers who were appointed to the service prior to the effective date of this Minute, provisions
relating to the confirmation in service as stipulated in the Minute which was in operation as at the date of their
appointment shall continue to apply.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
36A
1.3 In-service Training
In respect of officers who have not yet completed the in-service training which is due to be completed in respect
of the Four (04) levels of service under provisions stipulated in Sub-Para 9(2) of the Minute in force with effect
from 01 January, 2005, the Training Courses mentioned in Sub-Para 17.2 of this Minute in respect of the respective
level shall apply.
1.4 Language Proficiency
In respect of officers who have been appointed to the service prior to the effective date of this Minute, the
provisions relating to the Language Proficiency as stipulated in the Minute in force as at the date of their
appointment shall continue to apply.
1.5 Efficiency Bar Examination
1.5.(a) The First (I) and the Second (II) Efficiency Bar Examinations will be conducted until 31
st December, 2013
as per the provisions stipulated in the Minute in force as at 01 st  January, 2005.
1.5.(b) Officers who should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination under provisions of the Minutes in
force prior to the effective date of this Minute and who have not been able to pass the examination
accordingly within the period mentioned in Sub-Para 1.5(a) of this Schedule, shall be required to complete
the Efficiency Bar by passing the corresponding subjects under each of the Efficiency Bar Examinations,
in the Efficiency Bar Examinations held under this Minute. Corresponding subjects are given in the
Schedule below:
Corresponding Subjects in the Efficiency Bar Examination under each Minute
Minute No. 509/7 dated 07
th Minute No.1419/3 dated 14th This Minute
June, 1988 November, 2005
Administration Administration Administration
First (I) EB Examination First (I) EB Examination First (I) EB Examination
Financial Methods Public Sector Financial Public Sector Financial
First (I) EB Examination Management Management & Procurement
Second (II) EB Examination Process
First (I) EB Examination
(a)Economics or ( a)Economics or ( a)Economics and
(b)Sociology ( b)Sociology ( b)Sociology
First (I) EB Examination First (I) EB Examination First (I) EB Examination
Law Law Law
First (I) EB Examination First (I) EB Examination First (I) EB Examination
English English Link (English) Language
First (I) EB Examination First (I) EB Examination  Proficiency
Second (II) EB Examination
Economic & Social Policy Economic & Social Policy Economic & Social Policy
Second (II) EB Examination Second (II) EB Examination Second (II) EB Examination
Development Administration Development Administration Development Administration
Process Process Process
Second (II) EB Examination Second (II) EB Examination Second (II) EB Examination
Management & Organization Management & Or ganization Use of Information &
Second (II) EB Examination Methods Communication Technology
Second (II) EB Examination for Management
Second (II) EB Examination

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2013
37A
1.5 (c): Although the Efficiency Bar Examination that is required to be completed as stipulated in sub-para 1.5(b)
of this Schedule may differ, the time period applicable to the Efficiency Bar Examination which should have
been passed shall not differ.
1.6 Exemptions:
The provisions for exemption from requirements of Efficiency Bar Examinations and Language Proficiency,
provided in respect of officers appointed prior to the effective date of this Minute under the Minute upon which
they were recruited shall continue to be in operation even after this Minute becomes effective.
2 Method of promotion:
2.1 Promotion to Grade Two (II) of the Service:
2.1.1: Promotion of officers appointed to Class Three (III) of the service prior to 01
st January, 2005 to Grade
Two (II) shall be effected under the provisions mentioned below:
2.1.1. (a) Requirements to be fulfilled for promotion to Grade Two (II):
(i) Having been confirmed in service,
(ii) Completed an active and satis factory service period of  10 years and earned ten (10)
increments,
(iii) Having passed the First (I) and Second (II) Efficiency bar Examinations on the due date or
being exempted,
(iv) Having passed or exempted from the Second Language,
(v) Successful completion or exemption from the General/ Management Course conducted by the
Sri Lanka Institute of  Development Administration or the successful completion of  Capacity
Building Level –III Course and obtained the  certificate,
(vi) Completed a satisfactory period of service during the period of  Five (05) years immediately
proceeding to the date of eligibility for promotion.
2.1.2 Promotion to Grade Two (II) of officers appointed to Class Three (III) of the service during the period
from 01
st January 2005 to the effective date of this minute shall be effected under provisions in Sub-Para
2.1.2 (a).
2.1.2. (a) Under provisions in Sub-Para 13.1.1 of this Minute.
2.1.3. Promotion to Grade One (I) of the service:
2.1.3. (a) Officers who are promoted to Grade Two (II) of the service under the provisions stipulated in
sub para 2.1.1(a) of this Schedule shall be promoted to Grade One (I) on completion of the following
requirements:
(i) Having completed an active and satisfactory service during the period of Five (05) years
immediately preceding the date of becoming eligible for promotion and earned Five (05)
increments,
(ii) Of ficers who fulfill the qualifications shall be promoted after being  subjected to the interview.
2.1.3. (b ) Promotion of officers who are promoted to Grade Two (II) under    2.1.2. of this Schedule to Grade
One (I) shall be effected  only under the provisions stipulated in Sub Para 13.2 of this Minute.
2.1.4 Promotion to the Special Grade of the service
Promotion of officers in Grade I to the Special Grade shall be effected under the provisions stipulated in
Sub Para. 13.3(a) (i),(ii),(iii),(iv),(v) and Sub Para. 13.3 (b) of this Minute.
01-261
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.