

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1301
1301
wxl 1"922 - 2015 cQ,s ui 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'07'03
No. 1,922 – FRIDAY , JULY 03, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1304
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1305
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th July, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th July,
2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1302
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1303
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1304
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 03rd August, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
16th June, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Horana Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
in Raigama Koralaya Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Thalagala Kalutara.
Division
07–210
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
MATARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1305
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 10th August, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
17th June, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matara W eligama Post of Registrar of Addl. Marriages D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
(General) of Weligam Koralaya General,  District Secretariat,
Division Matara.
Matara W elipitiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Weligam Koralaya and Births and General, District Secretariat,
Deaths of Watagedaramulla Division Matara.
07–211
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS,  SRI  LANKA
Primary Level unskilled Service Category - Recruitment
for the Post of Machine Helper Grade III - 2015
APPLICATIONS are being called from qualified Sri Lankan citizens
for recruitment to the Post of Machine Helper Grade III in Primary
Level unskilled Service Category of the Department of Examinations,
Sri Lanka.
01. Selections will be made to the vacancies of the post of Machine
Helper, Grade III as per the results obtained at a structured interview
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations only in
Colombo from a qualified set of candidats.
02. Salary Scale.– The relevant monthly salary scale of the Post
Machine Helper  of Grade III, II, I, and special grade as per the
Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(IV) dated 24.08.2007 is
as follows :–
Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -10x130 -10x145 - 12x160 - Rs. 17,600.
To exceed Rs. 12,930  promotion to Grade II.
To exceed Rs. 14,230 promotion to Grade I.
To exceed Rs. 15,680 promotion to special grade are necessary.
03. Service Conditions.– This post is permanent and pensionable.
Relevant contributions shall be made to Widows'/Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension Scheme. This post is limited to the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka only. However Selected candidates can be
appointed to serve in any part of the island under the Department.
The candidates recruited to Grade III of this service category thorugh
the structured interview, will be subjected to a probationary period
of three years.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1306
04. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are required for
recruitment to the post of Machine Helper Grade III :
(a) Shall be a Sri Lankan citizen,
(b) Shall be of excellent character,
(c) Shall not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age as at the closing date of application. (Thus
candidates who fulfill the age requirement are whose
birthday is on or before 03.08.1997 and on or after
03.08.1970 only),
(d) The following educational qualifications shall be
completed.
Educational Qualifications :
(i) Shall have passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in not
more than two sittings in 06 subjects at least with
two credits.
(e) Professional Qualifications :
(i) Professional qualifications obtained in the relevant
field will be considered as a special qualification.
(f) Experience.– Experience in the relevant field will be
considered as a special qualification.
(g) Physical Fitness.– Each candidate shall have adequate
physical and mental fitness to carry out duties of the
post and to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
 Every candidate must complete all required qualifications
relevant to the post on or before 03.08.2015.
05. Examination Procedure .– This procedure consists of a
structured interview and this will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media and it is not allowed to change the applied medium later.
Main headings of awarding Maximum Marks
marks subsequent to checking
(i) Additional educational qualifications 30
(ii) Experience with regard to the post in 50
the relevant field
(iii) Professional qualifications 15
(iv) Skills displayed at the interview 05
Total marks 100
 Within the boundary of maximum marks allocated for
main headings in the above table, Commissioner General
of examinations will approve a detailed marking scheme
to award such marks.
Recruitment will be made on the order of highest marks obtained
at the structured interview by the candidate to fill the vacancy.
06. Penalties for providing false information. – Accurate
information shall be given with utmost care, when perfecting the
application. In case a certain candidate is found to be ineligible as per
the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature is
liable to be cancelled at any stage, prior to, during, or after the
structured interview. When it appears that a certain candidate has
submitted false information he/she can be dismissed from the public
service at any time.
07. Examination Fee.– The examination fee is Rs. 250. This fee
can be paid only to a post office/sub post office in the island under
the revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations on or before 03.08.2015. The receipt issued in this
regard shall be affixed on the relevant cage in the application form, so
that it can't be detached. (shall retain a photocopy of the receipt for
future benefit) The examination fee will not be refunded in any case
and money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
08. Applications must be prepared using A4 (21cm x 29cm)
(normal half sheet) size paper in such a way that :
(a) Paragraph numbers 1 to 3 appear on the first page,
(b) Paragraph numbers 4 to 8 appear on the second page,
(c) Paragraph numbers 9 to 11 appear on the third page and
the rest of paragraphs on other pages,
(d) When preparing the application, it is necessary to indicate
the name of the examination as the heading in English
too, in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in
addition to Tamil in Tamil applications.
 The applications that do not comply with the specimen,
or that have not been completed properly, and incomplete
applications will be rejected without notice. Candidates
shall bear the losss incurred due to incomplete
applications. It will be useful to retain a photocopy of
the application and candidate shall ensure whether the
perfected application is in compliance with the specimen
form appeared in the Gazette notification, as otherwise,
the application may be rejected.
8.1 Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to appear for the structured interview
for all candidates who are in the age limit mentioned in the
notification and who have forwarded the accurately
completed applications with the receipt subsequent to
paying the due examination fees on or before the date of
submission of such applications. When candidates'
qualifications are being checked after calling them for the
interview as per the Gazette notification, their candidature
will be cancelled in case it reveals that they have not got
the required qualifications.
8.2 “Structured interview to be recruited to the post of
Machine Helper Grade III - 2015” shall be mentioned on
the top left hand corner of the envelope in which the
application is enclosed.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1307
8.3 Candidate's signature shall be attested on the application
as well as on the admission card for the structured interview
by one of the following officers ; in case the candidate is
applying thorugh a certain institution, by the respective
department head or by an officer authorized by such head
of the department and others can get theirs attested by a
Principal of a Government School, Justice of Peace,
Commissioner for oaths, Notary Public, Grama Niladhari
in the division, Lawyer, Commissioned Officer in the
armed forces, an officer in the police service holding a
Gazetted post or permanent staff grade officer in the public
or Provincial Public Service who receives an annual
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,260 or more.
8.4 The closing date for the application is 03.08.2015. Daily
perfected applications shall be sent by registered post on
or before that date to the following address :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
9. Appearing for the structured interview.– Once the admission
cards are issued, a press notice informing such issuance will be
published by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. Candidates
who do not receive their admission cards, even after 2 or 3 days of
such advertisement shall notify the Department of Examinations, Sri
Lanka in the manner specified in the advertisement. When notifying
so, such candidates shall mention the name of the structured interview,
full name, address and national identity card number and in case of
candidates outside Colombo, it is advisable to fax your letter of
request providing the above informatin with a fax number ot which
the copy of the admission card for the structured interview shall be
faxed. Further it will be advantageous to keep in hand the copies of
the application form, and the payment receipt, with the receipt of
registration kept at your possession to prove your particulars.
10. A candidate will be required to prove his identity to the
satisfaction of the structured interview board by providing either
one of the following documents :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport.
11. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the relevant qualifications
for this post or to appear for the structured interview. Candidates of
the structured interview are bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting
the structured interview and they will be liable to any punishment
imposed by him for breach of such rules.
12. Commissioner General of examinations reserves the right to
decide any matter not provided in this notification. All candidates
are bound to comply with the general examination rules and
regulations mentioned in this Gazette.
W. M. N. J. P
USHPAKUMARA,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
wdo¾Y whÿïm;%h
Y%S ,xld úNd. fomd¾;fïka;=j
m%d:ñl uÜgfï Ys,amSh fkdjk fiajd .Kh - hka;%
iydhl III fY%a‚fha ;k;=rg n|jd .ekSfï jHqy.;
iïuqL mÍCIKh - 2015
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS, SRI LANKA
PRIMARY LEVEL UNSKILLED SERVICE CA TEGORY - STRUCTURED INTERVIEW
FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF MACHINE HELPER GRADE III - 2015
(Indicate clearly the correct symbol/number in the cage provided)
(For office use)
Language medium to appear for the structured interview :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1 Full Name (In English Capital Letters) :–––––––––––.
(Ex. : HERATH MUDIY ANSELAGE SAMAN
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
1.2 Last Name at first with initials at the end (In English
Capital Letters) :–––––––––––.
(Ex. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
1.3 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
02. 2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)
2.2 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card shall be sent :––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1308
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as on 03.08.2015 :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Telephone Number :
04. Educational Qualifications :
Details of the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Su bject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
05. Professional Qualifications :
Course Y ear T echnical NVQ
followed Institution level
06. Experience in the relevant field :–––––––––––.
07. Other Educational and Professional Qualifications :–––––––––.
08. Have you ever been convicted by a Court of Law ?
(Indicate mark in the relevant cage)
Yes N o
(In cage 'Yes' give particulars) :–––––––––––.
09. Details of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee :
(i) Office of payment :–––––––––––.
(ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :
Affix the receipt here so as not to be detached.
10. Certificate of the Applicant :
(a) I solemnly declare that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge. I agree to bear the loss that could be incurred due
to unfilled and/or inaccurately filled sections in the
application. Further I declare that all sections herein are
perfected accurately.
(b) I am aware that I will be liable to be disqualified prior to the
appointment and to be dismissed subsequent to receiving
the appointment in case any information provided by me
are proved to be false.
(c) More over I declare that I will abide by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on conducting the structured interivew.
(d) I will not alter any information provided herein later.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11. Attesting the signature of the Applicant :
I Certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Ms .......................... is
known to me personally, he/she placed his/her signature before me
on ......................., he/she has paid the relevant examination fee and
that he/she has pasted the receipt on this application.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Confirm with the official frank)
12. The certificate of the Department Head : (Only for employees
serving at Public/Provincial Public Sector/State
Corporations) :
The application of Mr./Mrs./Ms ............................. serving at
this Ministry/Department/Institution as a/an ......................... is
recommended and forwarded herewith and he/she can/cannot be

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1309
released from the service at this institution if he/she is selected for
the post concerned.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Department Head.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Confirm with the official frank)
07-293
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT  AND
VOCATIONAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT
TO THE TRAINING GRADE OF THE POST OF
TECHNICAL OFFICER OF SUPERVISORY MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANT TECHNICAL SERVICE CATEGORY OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND
TRAINING - 2015
APPLICA TIONS are invited for limited examination to select suitable
persons to fill 02 vacancies, existing in the posts of Technical Officer
of Supervisory Management Assistant Technical Service Category
of this Department. An application on form of the specimen
mentioned at the end of this notification, prepared according to the
following instructions in A4 size paper using both sides should be
sent under registered cover to reach the Director General, Department
of Technical Education and Training, P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10, on or before the date, under mentioned. The envelope
enclosing the application should clearly be marked “Limited
Competitive Examination to recruit to the post of Technical Officer”
on the top left hand corner.
(a) The closing date of application is 03.08.2015.
Note.– Inquiries, about applications or related letters lost or
delayed in post cannot be considered. Any damages that may
cause due to the delay in submitting applications until the
closing date should be borne by applicant,themselves.
1. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made on the
results of a written examination and a general interview. A number of
applicants equivalent to expected number of recruitment will be
summoned for a general interview, according to the merit order of
total marks of candidates. Who passed the written examination and
selected suitable persons.
2. Conditions of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Selected candidates
should require to contribute to the Widows and Orphans
Widowers and Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) Officers who appointed to this post will be subjected to
01 year acting period.
(iii) A training course should be completed within the 1st one
year period, according to the prescribed curriculum and
under the guidance of Chief Engineer or Engineer (Civil/
Mechanical) of the Department of Technical Education
and Training. At the end of one year training appointment
will be made to class III of the post of Technical Officer,
according to the recommendation, given by an examination
committee. Training period may extend on the
recommendation of the examination committee.
(iv) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007(ii),
proficiency level in other language should be obtained within
05 years.
(v) This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of the
Public Service Commission, Establishments Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial
Regulations of the state and Department other orders.
(vi) Should serve in any College of Technology/Technical College
of the Department, as stipulated.
3. Salary Scale. – In terms of salary circular bearing Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv) salary scale of Rs. 15,005 -
4x180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885 (monthly) of salary
code MN-3-2006(ta) is applicable to this post.
4.1 Educational Qualifications :
Have passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination in not
more than two sittings in six (06) subjects with credit pass
for Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Science, Mathematics.
4.2 Vocational Qualifications.– Five (5) year experience in
relevant field with a following vocational qualification
relevant to the post.
(i) Successfully followed a course in a field relevant to the
post, in a Technical College, recognized by the Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission and have
obtained National Certificate in Technology (Eg.–
National Certificate in Technology (Civil/Electrical/
Mechanical) ;
or
(ii) Successfully followed the National Certificate Course
in Industry Technician Course in a field relevant to the

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1310
post in a Technical College, recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission and have obtained relevant
certificate ;
or
(iii) Have obtained other technology qualifications which recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission that
fully equivalent to the above referred Technological qualifications, after derived the information from the Ministry of Higher
Education and from the institutions, which issued the above referred Technology Certificates.
5. Experience.– Have at least 05 year active and satisfactory service experience in relevant field in permanent Departmental post
in a preliminary or above service category of the Department of Technical Education and Training.
6. Physical Fitness.– Every candidate shall have sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and
discharge the duties of the post.
7. Other Qualifications :
(i) Appointment of the post, holding should have been confirmed.
(ii) At least 5 year active and satisfactory period of service in a permanent departmental post in the Public Service should
have been completed immediately prior to the prescribed date.
(iii) Only if the officer have completed all qualifications in every manner on the date, mentioned in the notification of calling
applications, it will be treated as all qualifications, need to appear for written examination to recruit to the service, were
fulfilled.
8. (i) Written examination :
Subjects Duration Maximum Pass Syllabus
(hours) marks marks
1. General Intelligence 01 100% 40% Short question paper to assess knowledge of present
social instances and international instances and
capability of creative thinking and ability to solve
problems.
2. Subject Oriented Test 03 100% 40% Should answer 05 questions out of 08, prepared to
assess technological knowledge relevant to the
post equal marks will be given to every question.
(ii) General Interview (marks will not be given) :
Intended objectives.– Examine whether fulfilled qualifications mentioned in Scheme of Recruitment and notification,
published in accordance with thereto and examine physical fitness.
9.  Examination Conditions :
(i) Admission cards will be issued by the Director General of Department of Technical Education and Training to the
candidates, who sent applications, formally. Candidates, appearing for the examination in prescribed examination hall,
should submit their admission card, with their duly attested signature, to the supervisor of the examination hall. Permission
will not be granted any candidate, to sit the examination without submitting the admission card.
(ii) Traveling expenses or any other allowance, insure by the candidates for appearing for this examination will not be paid.
(iii) Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of examination hall, relating to every subject,
they appear in the examination hall. Any one of the following document only, will be excepted for this.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ; or
(b) Valid passport.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1311
(iv) Examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil languages only. Permission will not be granted later to change the language
medium applied.
(v) All candidates who paid prescribed fee and submitted applications on or before the prescribed date will be allowed to
appear the competitive examination, by the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training on
prior conclusion that candidates who have qualifications mentioned in the notification for calling applications, only have
applied. Appearing for competitive examination will not be treated as an acceptance of the fulfillment of qualifications.
(vi) Candidates will subject to the rules and regulations, stipulated by the Director General of the Department of Technical
Education and Training relating to conduct the examination.
(vii) This examination will be conducted by the Testing and evaluation Division of the Department of Technical Education and
Training at the examination centres in Colombo only.
10. Mode of forwarding applications :
(i) Applications, prepared with No. 01-07 of specimen application, appearing in 1st page No. 08-10 appearing in 2nd page
and the rest in next pages, should be completed in their own hand writing perfectly.
(ii) Applications, which are of non compliance with specimen application and include incomplete particulars and applications
received after the closing date of applications will not be entertained. Applicants are advised to send their applications in
time to avoid the possibility of postal delay.
(iii) Applications should be completed in langauge medium of examination.
(iv) The examination fee is Rs. 400 and such fee should be paid any People’s Bank Branch in the island to the account number
176-100-139026228 (Mid City Branch) as credited to the Director General, Department of Technical Education and
Training. The receipt obtained should be firmly affixed in the application form. It will be useful to keep a photocopy of
the application and receipt. Examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances and money order and stamps
will not be accepted.
(v) Signature of candidates should be attested by a principal of Government School/a Grama Niladari of a division, a Justice
of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Force, permanent
staff officer in Public or Provincial Public Service with an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or above, or a chief
incumbent or a chief priest of a Buddhist temple or a distinguish person, in charge of holy place of any other religion.
(vi) Officer, who are already in Public or Provincial Public Service should submit applications, through their Head of
Department.
(vii) Action will be taken to dismissal from the service, if any information mentioned in the application being detected as
incorrect.
11. Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training reserves the right to fill all or apart of the vacancies.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, the Tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, Sinhala text
shall prevail.
J. A. R
ANJITH,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
Department of Technical Education and Training,
Colombo 10.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1312
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
For office use
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION TO TRAINING GRADE OF THE POST OF TECHNICAL OFFICER OF SUPERVISORY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT TECHNICAL
SERVICE CATEGORY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Language Medium for the examination :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
01. Name of the candidate :
(i) Name with initials, initials at the end (in block capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Full Name (In block capital letters)  :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Full Name (In Sinhala /Tamil)  :–––––––––––––.
02. Working Place  :–––––––––––––.
03. Private Address  :–––––––––––––.
04. (i) Sex  :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(iii) Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years  :–––––––––––––,  Months  :–––––––––––––,  Days  :–––––––––––––.
(iv) National Identity Card Number :
(v) Telephone Number :
05. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year  :–––––––––––––,  Index No.  :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
________________________________________ ______________________________________
________________________________________ ______________________________________
________________________________________ ______________________________________
06. V ocational Qualifications :
Examination/Diploma Y ear Subjects Grade Name of the Institute/University
07. Particulars of Experience :
Institute, worked Post Period of Service

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1313
08. (i) Present Post :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Date, appointed to the present post :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Date, confirmed in the present post :–––––––––––––.
(iv) File number and date of the letter issued, confirming
present post :–––––––––––––.
(v) Salary scale (in terms of P. A. Circular 6/2006 (iv) :
–––––––––––––.
(vi) Monthly salary :–––––––––––––.
(vii) Period of service of present post :–––––––––––––.
09. Peoples' Bank branch which examination fee has been paid :
Date of payment :–––––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particulars
contained there in are found to be false and incorrect before the
selection. I am liable to disqualify and dismissal, without
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Attestation of the Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................................... who
is working in College of Technology/Technical College
.............................../Head Office and is personally known to me,
placed his/her signature in my presence on ..................................
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Certifying Officer.
Date :–––––––––––––.
(This part is appicable only for candidates who engage in Government
employment)
Attestation of the Head of the Institution
I certify that this candidate, Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................
1. Is working in this College of Technology/Technical College/
Office.
2. He/She is holding a permanent post.
3. He/She has been confirmed in the permanent post by
....................
4. A letter has been issued to her/him, confirming in the service
of permanent post.
5. He/She has completed at least 05 year continuous service,
on or before ...........................
6. He/She is working in the prescribed post of paragraph 05
of this Gazette Notification.
7. His/Her work and conduct are satisfactory within 05 year,
period immediately prior to the date of ............................
8. Particulars contain in his/her application have been examined
with the documents in this department.
And he/she is suitable to appear for this examination according to
the regulations mentioned in notification of examination relevant to
this examination.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Institution or
Authorizing Officer.
Date :–––––––––––––.
(Seal)
07–158
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT  AND
VOCATIONAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT TO
CLASS III OF THE POST OF TECHNICAL OFFICER OF
SUPERVISORY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT TECHNICAL
SERVICE CATEGORY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING - 2015
APPLICATIONS are invited for competitive examination to select
suitable persons to fill 06 vacancies, existing in the posts of Technical
Officer of Supervisory Management Assistant Technical Service
Category of this Department. An application on form of the specimen
mentioned at the end of this notification, prepared according to the
following instructions in A4 size paper using both sides should be
sent under registered cover to reach the Director General, Department
of Technical Education and Training, P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10, on or before the date, under mentioned. The envelope
enclosing the application should clearly be marked "Competitive
Examination to recruit to the post of Technical Officer" on the top
left hand corner.
(a) The closing date of application is 03.08.2015.
Note.– Inquiries, about applications or related letters lost or
delayed in post cannot be considered. Any damages that may
cause due to the delay in submitting applications until the
closing date should be borne by applicants,themselves.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1314
1. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made on the
results of a written competitive examination and a general interview.
A number of applicants equivalent to expected number of recruitment
will be summoned for a general interview, according to the merit
order of total marks of candidates. Who passed the written existing
number of vacancies and examination and selected suitable persons.
2. Conditions of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and selected
candidates should require to contribute to the “widows
and orphans widowers and orphans” Pension Scheme.
(ii) Officers who appointed to this post will be subjected to
period of 03 years probationary and should pass the 1st
efficiency bar examination within such 03 years.
(iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014,
proficiency in 2nd official language of Group II should be
obtained within 05 years.
(iv) This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of the
Public Service Commission, Establishments Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial
Regulations of the state and Department other orders.
(v) Should serve in any College of Technology/Technical College
of the Department, as stipulated.
3. Salary Scale. – In terms of salary circular bearing Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv) salary scale of Rs. 15,005 -
4x180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885 (montly) of salary
code MN-3-2006(ta) is applicable to this post.
4. (i) Educational Qualifications :
1. Have passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination
in one sittings in six (06) subjects with credit pass for
Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Science, Mathematics
and other one subject ;
and
2. Have passed all subjects (except the general common
test) in G. C. E. (Advanced Level) examination in one
sitting under Science/Mathematics streams with two
(02) subjects of relevant field (have passed three (03)
subjects in one sitting under the old syllabus).
(ii) Vocational Qualifications :
1. National Diploma in Technology awarded by the
University of Moratuwa or Hardy Institute of
Ampara ;
or
2. National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the
National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority ;
or
3. Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by
the Ministry of Education and Higher Education ;
or
4. Two year Agriculture Diploma awarded by an
institution, recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational
Educational Commission ;
or
5. Technology Diploma awarded by the Open
University of Sri Lanka ;
or
6. Have successfully completed part one of Engineering
examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Engineering
Institute.
or
7. Have completed National V ocational Qualifications
(NVQ) level 06 qualifications relevant to the
employment field ;
or
8. Have obtained other technological qualifications
which recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission that fully equivalent to the
above referred Technological qualifications, after
derived the information from the Ministry of Higher
Education and from the institutions, which issued
the above referred technology certificates.
5. Age Limit.– Should not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years of age on the final date of accepting applications.
6. Physical Fitness.– Every candidate shall have sufficient physical
and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and discharge the
duties of the post.
7. Other Qualifications :
(i) Candidates should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Must have good moral character.
(iii) All qulaifications needed to appoint to the post should
have been fulfilled on the final date, mentioned in the
notification to call application Gazette Notification that
such qualifications should be fulfilled on the final date of
calling applications, in every manner.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1315
8. (i) Written Examination :
Name of the Duration Maximum Pass Syllabus
question paper (hours) marks marks
1. General Knowledge and 01 100% 40% Short question paper to assess knowledge of present
General Intelligence social instances and international instances and
capability of creative thinking and ability to solve
problems.
2. Technological Knowledge 03 100% 40% Should answer 05 questions out of 08, prepared to
and knowledge aflialed assess technological knowledge relevant to the
to the subject post equal marks will be given to every question.
8. (ii) General Interview (marks will not be given) :
Intended objectives.– Examine whether fulfilled qualifications mentioned in Scheme of Recruitment and notification,
published in accordance with thereto and examine physical fitness.
9. Examination Conditions :
(i) Admission cards will be issued by the Director General of Department of Technical Education and Training to the
candidates, who sent applications, formally. Candidates, appearing for the examination in prescribed examination hall,
should submit their admission card, with their duly attested signature, to the supervisor of the examination hall. Permission
will not be granted any candidate, to sit the examination without submitting the admission card.
(ii) Traveling expenses or any other allowance, insure by the candidates for appearing for this examination will not be paid.
(iii) Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the superviosr of examination hall, relating to every subject,
they appear in the examination hall. Any one of the following document only, will be excepted for this.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ; or
(b) V alid passport.
(iv) Examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil languages only, Permission will not be granted later to change the language
medium applied.
(v) All candidates who paid prescribed fee and submitted applications on or before the prescribed date will be allowed to
appear the competitive examination, by the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training on
prior conclusion that candidates who have qualifications mentioned in the notification for calling applications, only have
applied. Appearing for competitive examination will not be treated as an acceptance of the fulfillment of qualifications.
(vi) Candidates will subject to the rules and regulations, stipulated by the Director General of the Department of Technical
Education and Training relating to conduct the examination.
(vii) This examination will be conducted by the Testing and evaluation Division of the Department of Technical Education and
Training at the examination centres in Colombo only.
10. Mode of forwarding applications :
(i) Applications, prepared with No. 01-07 of specimen application, appearing in 1st page No. 08-10 appearing in 2nd page
and the rest in next pages, should be completed in their own hand writing perfectly.
(ii) Applications, which are of non compliance with specimen application and include incomplete particulars and applications
received after the closing date of applications will not be entertained. Applicants are advised to send their applications in
time to avoid the possibility of postal delay.
(iii) Applications should be completed in langauge medium of examination.
(iv) The examination fee is Rs. 400 andsuch fee should be paid any people's bank branch in the island to the account number
176-100-139026228 (mid city branch) as credited to the Director General, Department of Technical Education and

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1316
Training. The receipt obtained should be firmly affixed in the application form. It will be useful to keep a photocopy of
the application and receipt. Examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances and money order and stamps
will not be accepted.
(v) Signature of candidates should be attested by a principal of Government School/a Grama Niladari of a division, a Justice
of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Force, permanent
staff officer in Public or Provincial Public Service with an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or above, or a chief
incumbent or a chief priest of a Buddhist temple or a distinguish person, in charge of holy place of any other religion.
(vi) Officer, who are already in Public or Provincial Public Service should submit applications, through their Head of
Department.
(vii) Action will be taken to dismissal from the service, if any information mentioned in the application being detected as
incorrect.
11. Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training reserves the right to fill all or apart of the vacancies.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, the Tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, Sinhala text
shall prevail.
J. A. R
ANJITH,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
Department of Technical Education and Training,
Colombo 10.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
For office use
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT TO CLASS III OF THE POST OF TECHNICAL OFFICER OF SUPERVISORY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT TECHNICAL
SERVICE CATEGORY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Language Medium for the examination :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
01. Name of the candidate :
(i) Name with initials, initials at the end (in block capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Full Name (In block capital letters)  :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Full Name (In Sinhala /Tamil)  :–––––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Number :
(i) Official Address  :–––––––––––––.
Telephone Number  :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address :–––––––––––––.
Telephone Number  :–––––––––––––.
(Any change in the Address or Telephone Number, should be informed immediately)
03. Date of Birth :
Year  :–––––––––––––,  Month  :–––––––––––––,  Date  :–––––––––––––.
04. Age as at clsoing date of applications :
Years  :–––––––––––––,  Months  :–––––––––––––,  Days  :–––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number  :–––––––––––––.
06. Sex : Male/Female   :–––––––––––––.
07. Whether married/unmarried/Widow   :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1317
08. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination : G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year  :–––––––––––––,  Index No.  :–––––––––––––. Year  :–––––––––––––,  Index No.  :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
________________________________________ ______________________________________
________________________________________ ______________________________________
________________________________________ ______________________________________
________________________________________ ______________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
________________________________________
09. V ocational Qualifications :
Examination/Diploma Y ear Subjects Grade Name of the Institute/University
10. Particulars of Experience :
Institute, worked Post Period of Service Whether, Government/Semi Government/Private
11. If you are a citizen of Sri Lanka state by decent or registration (If registration, state details) :–––––––––––––.
12. Whether you have been dismissed from Government Post, that you had been holding ? :–––––––––––––.
13. If you are already in Public Service, are there any Departmental Deciplinary inquiry against you ? :–––––––––––––.
14. Whether you have been convicted in a court ? If so, state details :–––––––––––––.
15. Peoples' Bank Branch which examination fee has been paid :
Date of payment :–––––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particu lars
contained there in are found to be false and incorrect before the selection. I am liable to disqualify and dismissal, without compensation, if
the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1318
16. Attestation of the Signature :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................................
is personally known to me, placed his/her signature in my presence
on ..................................
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Certifying Officer.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Certifying Officer :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(This part is appicable only for candidates who engage in Government
employment)
Attestation of the Head of the Department/Institution
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................... who
is working in the Ministry/Department/Institution of ........................
is working in the post of ....................................... and his/her work
and conduct are satisfactory, no deciplinary action pending against
him/her and no decision has been taken to impose any such in future
and the correct examination fee has been paid and the receipt for the
same is affixed. He/She can/cannot be released, from service once
he/she is selected for this post.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department
or Authorized Officer.
Date :–––––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
07–159
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY   OF   HEALTH   AND   INDIGENOUS   MEDICINE
Recruitment of Trainees for the Training in the Post of Public Health Laboratory Technician of
Para Medical Service - 2015
APPLICATIONS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who have qualified at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in the years 2010, 2011,2012,
2013, 2014 to recruit as trainees to the below mentioned training course of the Para Medical Service of the Ministry of Health and Indigenous
Medicine.
Code T raining Course Period of T raining Medium in which the course should
No. be followed
01 Trainee Public Health Laboratory Technician 01 year and 03 months English
01. Merit list will be prepared according to the z-score obtained at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination and 30% of eligible persons will
be selected on all island merit and 40% or provincial merit. The number of trainees that could be recruited from these province s will be
decided considering the number of vacancies exists in hospital and institutions which are belonged to the line Ministry and Pro vincial
Councils of the same province.
Since applications are called from those who have passed on G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in several years based on the z-score of
the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination, the total number of trainees required for the training will be selected as a percentage of eligible applicants
from the total number of eligible candidates in those years. If vacancies in the post, will not exist in the requested province, the application
will be consider only for an all island merit.
02. This course is a full time course (on 5 week days and in the morning of Saturdays). Therefore, students who follow any full
time course in a university or under the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine or other government institution should not apply for
this. If someone is found to have done so, he/she will be dismissed and all expenses incurred on him/her up to that day by the government
will be recovered. If a student who is following a full time course in a university wish to apply so, he/she should take action  as follows.
Applications of those who have registered for full time training course under the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine wi ll be
rejected.
2.1 If you have registered for a full time course of any university or other government institution on some day, you
should have get cancelled that registration by the date of recruitment to this course. Even if you have not attended
to the lectures or do not attend the lectures, being registered with a university you are considered as undergraduate
such applicants also should cancel their registration. You should possess written evidence in proof of that when
required.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1319
2.2 If you have completed a degree of any university, the effective date of that degree should be a date prior to the date
of recruitment :
N. B. : * You are hereby emphasized that no section of this Gazette means that even if all conditions above from 2.1
to 2.2 have been satisfied, you are compulsorily admitted to this course.
* You should be aware that you will not be eligible for this course if you have not obtained a sufficient z-score
or if you have not satisfied any condition mentioned herein, even if you have satisfied conditions above
from 2.1 to 2.2.
* You  are further informed that if you have not completed the conditions mention from 2.1 to 2.2, you will
not be qualified for this course under any circumstances even if you have already fulfilled all the other
conditions mention in this, after obtaining an adequate z-score.
03. Educational qualifications and other special qualifications relevant to the recruitment to the training :
Code Training G. C. E. (O/L) Qualification G . C. E.  (A/L) Other qualification relevant to
No. Course Qualification the training course
01 Public Health Should have passed six subjects Should have passed Biology
Laboratory including English with at least with a credit pass and two
Technician credit   pass for Sinhala Language, other subjects from
Tamil   Language, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and No
Science  and one other subject Agriculture in one sitting
in not more than two at the G . C. E. (A/L)
sittings at the G . C. E. (O/L) examination in the years
examination 2010, 2011, 2 012, 2013,
2014.
04. Other General Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age as at 03.08.2015. Applications are called from thsoe
who satisfy relevant qualificatins and who have passed G . C. E. (A/L) examination in the years 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013,
2014.
(b) Should serve at least 10 years in the post of Public Health Laboratory Technician after the training.
(c) Should be fit physically and mentally.
(d) Should have resided in the district from which he/she is applying for a period of continuous 3 years immediately prior to
the closing date of application.
05. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared in accordance with the specimen form attached to this. Papers in the size of A4
should be used for this. (Pages from section 1 to 10 (a) should appear on the first side of the page and section from 10(b)
to 13 in the Second page.
(b) Receipt obtained by paying the amount of Rs. 300 to the credit of the account of the Director General of Health Services
collection of examination fee No. 7041318 of the Bank of Ceylon, Thaprobane Branch should be affixed on the place'Receipt'
of the application so as not to be detached. (Obtain a copy of the receipt before affixed it).
(c) Signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/an officer in the
Sri Lanka Educational Adminsitrative service/an officer of Sri Lanka Accountancy Service/a principal of a government
school/a Justice of the peace/an Attorney-at-Law/or an officer who holds a permanent and pensionable post in the Public
Service and obtains a consolidated salary not less than Rs. 240,360 per annum.
(d) On the top left hand corner of the enveloep in which the application is enclosed, it should be mentioned the words
'Recruitment of Trainees for the Training of Public Health Laboratory Technician of Para - Medical Service - 2015' and
below that the province and the district which you applied for should be mentioned. The applications should be sent by

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1320
registered post to reach on or before 03.08.2015 to Director, (Admin.) 2, Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine,
'Suwasiripaya' No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10.
06. Application of the employees of Public or semi - government institutions should be sent through the respective Head of
Department and also, you should be noted that this is an external recruitment.
07. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
08. Applications which receive after the closing date or which are incomplete or not complying with the specimen form will be
rejected without any notice.
09. Only the applicants selected from thsoe who have fulfilled the above qualifications based on a priority list prepared according to the
z-score will be called for an interview consisting officers of the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine and a staff officer of any other
Ministry, Originals of the following documents should be submitted at the interview by the applications.
(a) Certificate of Birth,
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) examination results sheet with the z-score (a certified copy should also be attached to the application),
(c) Original results sheet of the G . C. E. (O/L) examination, a certified copy should also be attached to the application.
(d) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of persons or the valid passport or the driving license,
(e) Certificate of residency issued by the Grama Niladhari and countersigned by the Divisional Secretary in confirmation of
residency according to above 4d). (Grama Niladhari Certificate).
(f) An affidavit declaring that the applicant is not following full time course under the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine
or in a university or any other institution.
Training Procedure :
(i) Applicants selected from those who were interviewed will be admitted to the training schools to follow the course.
(ii) Trainees admitted to the training schools shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the training schools and any other order
imposed by the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine from time to time.
(iii) Training of the students who are failed by the relevant specific or those who are with unsatisfactory work and conduct or those
who are unable to be adapted with the examinations and leaves relevant to the training school admitted in within the training
period, may be terminated any time without granting any compensation.
(iv) A monthly allowance of Rs. 12,360 will be paid to the trainees during the priod of training.
(v) At the time he/she is admitted to the training school, he/she should enter into an agreement and surety bond with the Director
General of Health Services, he/she will complete the training successfully, not abandon the training course and service in the
relevant post in the relevant province for a period of ten (10) years at least if an appointment is granted after completing the
said training. If he/she resigns from the training (abandon the training) or his/her training has to be terminated as per above
Section III or fails to serve in the post of Public Health Laboratory Technician in Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine
or Provincial Council for a period of ten (10) years after appointment he/she should refund the Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine the expenses borne by the government and the amount of the surety Bond. If not, legal action will be
taken to recover the said amount as per the agreement.
10. Terms of Engagement.– Government is not bound to grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. However, it may be
considered to appoint the candidates to the post of Public Health Laboratory Technician (Class III) based on the conditions of the to the
recruitment procedure relevant to the post of public Health Laboratory Technician and the vacancies existing under the Ministry of Health
and Indigenous Medicine or in the province. Serving in the province to which the first appointment is granted for a period of ten years from
the date of first appointment is compulsory.
It may be considered to grant appointments to the institutions where vacancies are existing based on the merit list prepared according to
the results of the final written examination conducted at the end of the course and taking into consideration the above 70% recruited at the
provincial level and the 30% recruited on the island wide merit basis.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1321
The Public Health Laboratory Technician related to the service of Para Medical Service is entitled to the salary scale of Rs. 15,080
-180x7 -240x3 - 320x11 -  360x20 - Rs. 27,780 in terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(IV) and salaries will be paid after
placing on the 1st salary step of Grade III.
11. Particulars regarding the educational and other qualifications should be mentioned carefully and accurately in filling the
application. If the above said certificates were found to be false action will be taken to refer the case to the Criminal Investigation Department
in order to take legal action and to cancel the appointment and dismiss from the training/post and disciplinary action will be taken and his/
her name will be entered into the blacklist which is an index of the names of persons who will not be re-employed by the govern ment.
Further, action will be taken to recover the allowance paid to him/her during the period of training, expenses borne by the government and
the amount relevant to the surety bond.
12. Selected applicants should submit themselves to a medical examination within the first month of the training to prove that they
are physically and mentally fit to follow the course concerned and to serve in any part of the island and the applicants found not to be fit
in the medical examination will not be continue the course.
13. All recruited as above will be subject to all rules and regulations applicable to the Public Officers, procedural rules of the Public
Service Commission and provisions of the Establishment Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Policies prescribed by the
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine, Financial Regulations and other regulations and rules, regulations and orders imposes by the
government from time to time.
14. In case any problem arises in respect of any matter regarding recruitment to the training which is covered or not covered by this
Gazette notification, decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine shall be final and in case of any
inconsistency between the texts in Sinhala, Tamil and English the text in Sinhala shall prevail.
15. Ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities at the training schools for the applicants recruited to the training. If  so
provided assessed house room rental, water and electricity bills will be charged.
16. There is no right to engage in trade union activities or serve in private during the period of this training and also if yo u are
appointed to the post of Public Health Laboratory Technician after the training, you will not have any right to serve in privat e. If it was
found that you have acted so, legal action will be taken.
Dr. D. M. R. B. DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansha Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
15th June, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
R
ECRUITMENT OF TRAINEES FOR THE PUBLIC HEALTH LABORATORY TECHNICIAN OF PARA MEDICAL SERVICE - 2015
(Read the Gazette Notification thoroughly before fulfilling the application form)
01. ( a) Last name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) Ex. : A. B. C. SILV A
(b) Name in full (In English block letters) :––––––––––––.
(c) Name in full (In Sinhala/In Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No.  :––––––––––––. (a copy should be attached)
03. Postal Address :
In Sinhala/In Tamil In English
................................ ...............................
................................ ...............................
................................ ...............................
................................ ...............................

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1322
04. ( a) Permanent Address :
In Sinhala/In Tamil In English
................................ ...............................
................................ ...............................
................................ ...............................
(b) Telephone Nos. Mobile :––––––––––––.
Fixed :––––––––––––.
(c) District of residence :  In Sinhala/In Tamil :––––––––––––.
In English :––––––––––––.
(d) Whether you are a permanent resident in this District :Yes/No :––––––––––––.
(e) If "Yes" since when :––––––––––––.
05. Date of Birth : Year :––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––––.
Age as at 03.08.2015 : Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.
06. Height : Feet :––––––––––––. Inches :––––––––––––.
07. Gender : Male Female (Mark "" in the relevant cage)
08. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka : Y es No (Mark " " in the relevant cage)
09. Civil status : Married Single
10. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (attach a certified copy of the result sheet in which the Z-score, is mentioned)
District form which you appear for the Examination :––––––––––––.
Year in which you appear for the Examination :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Z-Score :––––––––––––.
No. Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
(b) G . C. E. (O/L) Examination : (attach certified copy of the result sheet) :
First attempt Second attempts
No. Subject Year Year
Index No. Index No.
Result Result
1 Sinhala/Tamil Language
2 Mathematics
3 Science
4 English
5
6
7
8
9
10
All the subjects appeared for at the G . C. E. (O/L) examination should be mentioned in the above table.
11. Have you ever been convicted before a court of law : Y es No (Mark " " in the relevant cage)
If yes give particulars :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1323
12. Certification of the applicant :
(a) I hereby honesty declare that this application has been
fulfilled by me after reading the paper notification
thoroughly and understanding the facts thereof and under
the all conditions mentioned therein and I do not attend
any fulltime course/programme in any other programme
and information mentioned in this application by me are
true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if my statement mentioned here or
any other fact mentioned in the application revealed as
untrue or false, I will be liable dismissed by the service.
Attach here the receipt so as not to be detached.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
13. Attestation of the Applicant's signatory :
I hereby certify that Miss ....................................... who is presets
this application is well known to me and signed before me on ................
–––––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––. Signature by the Attester (Official Frank).
Full Name of attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
07–102
––––––––––––––––––––
towns mentioned in examination Schedule I. Town applied for
appearing the examination should be complied with such Schedule.
The town mentioned in the application, will not be permitted to
change later. Any centre, for which a sufficient number of candidates
do not apply, applicants will be directed for another centre of
examination in the nearest town. If a sufficient number of candidates
do not apply for all or more centres of examination, action will be
taken to hold the examination only in Colombo by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
SCHEDULE OF EXAMINATION - 1
E
XAMINATION CENTERS
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
Hambantota 08
Matara 09
Jaffna 10
Kilinochchi 11
Mannar 12
Mulativu 13
Vavuniya 14
Ampara 15
Batticaloa 16
Trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
Moneragala 23
Kegalle 24
Ratnapura 25
02. Medium of Examination.– This examination will be held in
Sinhala, Tamil and English media. The medium of examination applied
will not subsequently be permitted to change.
03. Qualifications for Recruitment :
(a) Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed G. C. E.
(Ordinary Level) examination in six subjects in not more
than two sittings with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/
English and Mathematics and for another two subjects ;
and
Should have passed G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
examination in Three (3) subjects (excluding the Common
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION FOR MAKING
RECRUITMENT  FOR  THE POSTS  OF  GRADE  III
POSTAL  SERVICE  OFFICERS  OF  TECHNICAL/NON-
TECHNICAL  OFFICER CATEGORY - SUPERVISING
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT  OF  THE  POSTAL
DEPARTMENT,  SRI  LANKA - 2014(2015)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the eligible candidates for 578
vacancies for the Post of Grade III Postal Service Officers of
Supervising Management Assistant - Technical/Non-Technical Service
Officer Category of the Postal Department, Sri Lanka. This
Examination will be held only at the centres of examination in the

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1324
General Test) in one sitting. (Should have passed three
subjects under the old syllabus).
(b) Vocational Qualifications.– Should have possessed a
certificate as to prove the Computer Literacy on
completion of Computer Application Assistant NVQ
Level 3 or above course not less than 360 hours at an
institute registered at the Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission.
Note.– You can make certain the accreditation of the course
you have followed and registration of the institution at
the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission by
visiting the Website www.tvec.gov.lk.
(c) Physical Fitness.– Every applicant should be physically
and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and
perform the duties of the post.
(d) Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Applicant should be of a moral character,
(iii) Both males and females can apply,
(iv) Should possess all the qualifications mentioned in
3(a) and (b) above as on 27.07.2015.
04. Age.– Age should not be less than 18 years and not more than
30 years at the date of closing applications. Therefore those who
have born on 27.07.1997 or before and those who have born on
27.07.1985 or after are eligible to apply for this.
05. Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale in terms of the Public
Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv) : Rs. 15,005 -4x180 -6x240
- 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885 (MN 3-2006A).
06. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared by
the candidate himself on A4 size paper (21x30cm) using
both sides. The application should be prepared in such
a way that the headings 01 to 03 should be appearing on
the 1st page and the rest on the balance pages. The
applications can also be obtained through the official
Website of the Postal Department www.slpost.gov.lk.
(b) Applications so completed should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination
Branch, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P. O.
Box 1503, Colombo on or before 27.07.2015. The top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing application
should be marked "Open Competitive Examination for
making recruitment for the posts of Grade III Postal
Service Officers of Technical/Non-Technical Officer
Category - Supervising Management Assistant of the
Postal Department, Sri Lanka - 2014(2015)". It will be
useful to retain a photocopy of the application.
(c) Applications of those who are already in Government
or Provincial Government Service should forward their
applications through the Head of the Department.
Signature of applicant on the application and on the
admission card should be attested. Employees of any
institute should get attested their signatures by their
Heads of respective bodies or authorized officer and
others should get their signatures attested by a Principal
of a Government School/Retired Officer, a Grama
Niladhari of the area, a Justice of Peace, a Commissioner
of Oaths, A Lawyer, Notary Public, Commissioned
Officer of one of the three Forces, Any permanent Staff
Officer of Government or Local Government whose
annual consolidated salary is Rs. 240,360 or more, Chief
incumbent Thero of a Temple or a Clergy of religion or
someone holds such dignitary.
(d) The applications not in the prescribed age limit, with
the receipt obtained without conforming to specimen
application, with incomplete information, applications
with receipts obtained after the closing date, applications
without the receipts and late applications will be rejected
without any intimation. Candidates will not be
acknowledged the receipt of applications.
(e) Immediately after the issuance of admission cards to the
candidates, a newspaper advertisement will be published
by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. If a
candidate has not received his/her admission card at least
five days before the date of examination, he/she should,
without any delay, notify the Organizing and Foreign
Examination Branch, Department of Examinations of
Sri Lanka on non-receipt of the admission cards, as set
out in the notification. Name of Examination, Full Name
of the candidate, National Identity Card No., and the
Address should correctly be mentioned. It will be more
useful to notify the department along with a certified
photocopy of the application with Paying Receipt
retained by the candidate, Registered Post No., Fax No.
and the Letter of request, in case of the candidate residing
outside the Colombo to send admission card when the
Department of Examinations requests to ascertain the
information therein.
(f) Admission to the examination does not constitute the
acceptance of eligibility.
(g) Candidates will be required to prove his/her identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor.
One of the following documents will be accepted for
such purpose.
i) National Identity Card issued by the Department if
Registration of Persons.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1325
(ii) A valid Passport.
07. Payment of Examination Fees :
(a) The fee for this examination is Rs. 600. The fee should
be paid at any post office in the island as to credit the
same to Revenue of the Government under the Revenue
Head of the Commissioner General of Examinations 2003-
02-13. One margin of the receipt obtained from the post
office should be affixed in the appropriate place in the
application so as not to falling. The receipt obtained
after paying the examination fees should be issued in the
name of the applicant. It will be useful to retain a
photocopy of the receipt. Applications with receipts
obtained without conforming to this notice will be rejected
without any intimation. Examination fees paid will not
be refunded or transferred on any reason.
08. Terms of Engagement and Conditions of Service :
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. They shall
contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans
Pension Scheme in terms of the Public Administration
Circular No. 6/2006.
(b) Selected candidates who are in the public service but not
confirmed in a post of Government Service at that time
will be appointed to the relevant post subjecting to a
probationary period of three years. In case of an officer
who already serves in a pensionable and permanent post
in the Government Service will be subjected to one year
acting period.
09. Scheme of Examination.– This examination consists of two question papers as mentioned below :
Question paper Period T otal Marks Pass Marks
01 Language ability 01 1/2 hours 100 40%
02 Aptitude test 01 hour 100 40%
Name of Syllabus
Question paper
01 Language ability This paper consists of two parts. Equal marks for each have been assigned.
Part I
This includes writing an essay and summarization. It will test the ability to express, gather
and submit the ideas of candidate, understanding of language, spellings and usage of simple
grammar.
Part II
(a) Expression of the contextual meaning of words of sentences formed to test the ability
of the candidates in one sentence, writing of commentary notes on them,to select
the most suitable statement from different group of sentences. Choosing the most
correct answer among several answers.
(b) Knowledge on synonyms and antonyms. This will test the knowledge on the strategies
followed in the usage of language.
Answer to the all questions
02 Aptitude test This has designed with the intention of testing logical expressions, strength of analysis,
ability to attend logical conclusions on correct incidents and to test the intelligence. There are
50 multiple choice questions and short answering questions regarding mathematical problems.
Answer to the all questions.
Minimum of 40% marks or more for each paper should be obtained for passing the examination.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1326
10. Mode of selection :
(a) Suitable candidates for this post will be selected at an
interview held to scrutinize the qualifications in paragraph
03 above. (Marks will not be given at the interview, only
the scruitinization of qualifications will be made).
(b) Successful candidates will be called for the interview on
the merit shown on the results of examination. Candidates
who are not eligible as per the notification as on the date of
closing applications are not eligible to obtain appointments.
(c) Applicants are selected for offering appointments for the
number of vacancies to be filled sequentially for the priority
list of applicants prepared as per the recommendation of
the interview board and marks obtained at the written
examination.
(d) Result sheet prepared according to the total marks of the
candidates who obtained marks not less than 40% marks
for each subject at the written examination will be handed
over to the Postmaster General. In addition, results of
the examination of the candidates will be sent
personally  to  the  candidates  or  published  in  the
website  www.results.exams.gov.lk by the Department of
Examinations of Sri Lanka.
11. Candidates will be subjected to the rules and regulations
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations related to the
conducting of examinations and releasing of results. In the event of
violating these rules and regulations, he/she will be liable to a
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
12. Furnishing false information.– If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior
to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has
furnished information with knowledge that they are false after the
recruitment, he/she will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
Postmaster General reserves the right to take final decision on
any other fact not mentioned herein this notification.
13. In case of any mismatch or nonconformity of this notification
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English media, action will be taken as
per the Sinhala notification.
D. L. P. R. A
BEYARATNE,
Postmaster General.
Specimen Application
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINA TION  FOR  MAKING
RECRUITMENT  FOR  THE  POSTS  OF  GRADE  III
POSTAL  SERVICE  OFFICERS  OF  TECHNICAL / NON-
TECHNICAL  OFFICER  CATEGORY - SUPERVISING
MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANT  OF  THE  POSTAL
DEPARTMENT,  SRI  LANKA - 2014(2015)
For office use only
Town applied for appearing the examination :
Town Town No.
Medium of Language for the examination :
(Medium applied will not be permitted to change later)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3 (Relevant number may be written in the
English - 4     cage)
01. (i) Name with initials :
In Sinhala/Tamil : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––.
In English (Capital letters) : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––.
Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
(ii) Name in full :
In Sinhala/Tamil Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––.
In English (capital letters) Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Permanent Address :
In English (capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––––.
(iii) District of Residence :–––––––––––––.
(iv) Address to which the admission cards to be sent :
In English (capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
03. (i) Gender :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Relevant number may be written in the cage)
(ii) National Identity Card No. :
(iii) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(iv) Age as at the closing date of applications (Age as at
27.07.2015) :
Years : Months : Days :
(v) Civil Status :
Married - 1
Unmarried - 2
(Relevant number may be written in the cage)

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1327
04. (1) Educational Qualifications :
(a) Particulars of G . C. E. (A/L) :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
(b) Particulars of G . C. E. (O/L) :
(i) Year and month of the examination held :–––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subject Grade S ubject Grade
(c) Professional Qualifications :
(Particulars of computer courses not less than 360 hours
at an institution registered at the Tertiary and V ocational
Educational Commission) :
Name of the Registration No. of Institution Period and No.
Course r egistered at Tertiary and of hours of the
Vocational Educational course
Commission
05. Whether you have convicted in a Court of Law ?
Yes N o
(Place "" symbol in the relevant cage)
If so, give details such as Case No. and penalty imposed etc. :
–––––––––––
06. Post Office to which the examination fees paid :–––––––––––.
Examination Receipt No.  :–––––––––––––.
Date  :–––––––––––––.
Examination receipt may firmly be affixed here.
(It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
07. Declaration of  Applicant :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false and incorrect, before selection,
I am liable to disqualification and to dismissal without compensation
if any inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
Further, I declare that I will subject to the rules and regulations,
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the
holding of examination and the issuance of results and the particulars
mentioned herein will not be changed hereafter.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
08. Attestation of the signature of Applicant :
I, do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who
submits this application is personally known to me, he/she placed
his/her signature before me on ..................., he/she has made the
relevant examination fees and the receipt of the same has been affixed
herein this application.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full name of the attesting officer :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Official Frank :–––––––––––––.
09. Certification of the Head of the Institution/Department (For
applicants already in the  Government or Provincial Government
Service) :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ who
forwards this application is serving in the capacity of ....................
in ....................... office/institution with effect from .......................
and his/her service is satisfactory, she/he can be/cannot be released
from the present post if she/he is selected for an appointment on the
results of this examination, that he/she has not subject for any
disciplinary inquiry (Except advices) and that the particulars
mentioned above are true.
–––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department/Institution.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full name of the Head of the Department/Institution :––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address (Place the official frank) :–––––––––––––.
07–516

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1328
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.07.2015
1329
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2015
JULY 03.07.2015 Friday — 19.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
10.07.2015 Friday –– 26.06.2015 Friday 12 noon
17.07.2015 Friday –– 03.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
24.07.2015 Friday –– 10.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
30.07.2015 Thursday –– 17.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 07.08.2015 Friday — 24.07.2015 Friday 12 noon
14.08.2015 Friday –– 30.07.2015 Thursday 12 noon
21.08.2015 Friday –– 07.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
28.08.2015 Friday –– 14.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 04.09.2015 Friday — 21.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
11.09.2015 Friday –– 28.08.2015 Friday 12 noon
18.09.2015 Friday –– 04.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
25.09.2015 Friday –– 11.09.2015 Friday 12 noon
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.