

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
NADUATHUL ULAMA ARABIC COLLEGE,
MUTUR (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 94]
————————
Presented by Hon. M. S. Thowfeek, M. P.
on 05th April, 2016
(Published in the Gazette on February 23, 2016)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Naduathul Ulama Arabic College, Mutur
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2d
2-
————————

<!-- page 2 -->

1Naduathul Ulama Arabic College, Mutur
(Incorporation)
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Naduathul
Ulama Arabic
College,
Mutur.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE NADUATHUL ULAMA ARABIC
COLLEGE, MUTUR
WHEREAS an College  called and known as the
“Naduathul Ulama Arabic College ” has been formed at
Mutur, Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually fulfilling
and  carrying out all the objects and matters connected with
the said 
“Naduathul Ulama Arabic College”  according to
the rules agreed to by its members and whereas the said
institution has heretofore successfully carried out and
transacted the several objects and matters for which it was
established:
AND the Board of Management of the said “
Mutur Naduathul
Ulama Arabic College” has applied to incorporate the college
and it will be for the public advantage to grant such
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Naduathul Ulama Arabic
College, Mutur (Incorporation) Act, No.     2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
the persons who had heretofore managed and carried on the
affairs of the  Mutur Naduathul Ulama Arabic College
(hereinafter referred to as the “College”) and the persons who
shall hereafter be admitted to the Board of Management in
accordance with the provisions of this Act and rules made
thereunder, shall be and become an incorporated body
(hereinafter referred to as the“ Corporation”) with the perpetual
succession under the name and the style of “
Mutur Naduathul
Ulama Arabic College” and by that name may sue and be sued
in all courts ,with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its will and pleasure.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Naduathul Ulama Arabic College, Mutur
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to improve the religious, educational, social,
economical and cultural development of Muslims
in Sri Lanka;
(b) to encourge the teaching of Arabic Language, its
grammar, literature, verse and prose and poems, and
other similar subects to enable the students to gain
the complete knowledge, skills and abilities in
Arabic Language;
(c) to improve the teaching of ‘Sharia’ or Islamic Law
in accordance with ‘Fiqh’ ‘Tafseer’ and ‘Hadeeths’
and other similar subjects which are available in
Arabic language;
(d) to encourage the teaching  of recital of ‘Al Quran’
according to ‘Thajweed’ and ‘Hifdhul Quran’, the
recital from  memory of the ‘Holy Quran’;
(e) to encourage the teaching of other subjects similar
to these, which are available in Arabic Language
and are helpful to the students to gain an intense
knowledge in matters mentioned in paragraph ( a),
(b), (c) and (d); and
(f) to do all the acts and things which are necessary or
conducive to the attainment of the above mentioned
objects or any one of them since they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law :
Provided always that the subjects referred to in this section
shall be exclusively in accordance with the “Sunnath
Waljamaath”.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Naduathul Ulama Arabic College, Mutur
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever  as are necessary, desirable or expendient for the
promotion or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation
or any one of them including the power to open, operate and
close bank accounts, to borrow or raise money with or without
security, to invest its funds, to engage, employ and dismiss
officers and servants for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Management consisting of members elected in accordance
with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall be the members of the Board of Management of
College holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time at any General Meeting of the Members and by the
votes of not less than two-thirds of the members present and
voting to make rules which are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and
accomplishment of its objects, such rules when made may at
the meeting and in like manner be altered, added to, amended
or rescinded.
(2) The rules of the College in force on the preceding
date of the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be
the rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Naduathul Ulama Arabic College, Mutur
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
7. All debts and liabilities of the college existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall
be paid by the Corporation and debt due to and subscriptions
and contributions payable to the college on day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
8. The Corporation shall be able in law to take and hold
any property  movable or immovable which may become
vested it by virtue of  any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to
the  Corporation with full power  to sell, mortgage, lease, or
otherwise dispose of all the same.
9. The money and property of the Corporation
whensoever deriving shall be applied solely towards the
promotion  of its objects as set forth herein, and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transfrerred directly or indirectly by
way of divident, loan, or otherwise howsoever by way of
profit to the members of the Corporation :
Provided however, that the provisions of this section
shall not prohibit—
(a) the payment in good faith of reasonable and proper
remuneration to any officer or employee of the
Corporation for any service rendered by him to the
Corporation;
(b) the payment of reasonable and proper rent for
premises let to the Corporation by any member of
the Corporation or by any company of which a
member of the Corporation is a shareholder; and
(c) the reimbursment or repayment of reasonable and
proper expenses incurred with the prior approval of
the Board of Management by any member, officer
or employee of the Corporation in the discharge or
performance of his function or duties or in
promotion of the objects of the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold and
dispose of
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
College.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Naduathul Ulama Arabic College, Mutur
(Incorporation)
5
10. It shall be lawfull for the Corporation—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required to
the purpose of the Corporation and which may
lawfully be acquired for those purposes and to deal
with or dispose of the same, as if may deem
expedient, with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(b) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purpose of the Corporation, in such manner
as the Board of Management may think fit and to
vary and transfer any such investments;
(c) to raise or borrow money for purpose of the
Corporation, and to secure the discharge of any
debt or obligation of the Corporation in such manner
the  Board of Management think fit;
(d) to solicit, raise and receive subscription, grants,
donations and gifts of all kinds, locally and abroad
for the purposes of the Corporation;
(e) to construct, alter or maintain any building required
for the purpose of the Corporation;
(f) to appoint, dismiss or terminate officers and servants
of Corporation and to pay them such salaries,
pensions, and allownaces from time to time be
determined by the Corporation;
(g) to enter into any contract with any person,  company,
society  or body of persons whether Corporate or
unincorporate, any Government Department or
local authority for promoting the objects of the
Corporation;
(h) to do all the things not inconsistance with this Act
or any other law as are necessary expedient for the
proper and effective carrying out of the Corporation.
10
15
20
Powers of the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Naduathul Ulama Arabic College, Mutur
(Incorporation)
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules of the
Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the  signing of any person as a witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or
corporate, or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from or under
them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10

<!-- page 8 -->

7Naduathul Ulama Arabic College, Mutur
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .