

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'06'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.06.2017
w;s úfYI
wxl 2024$47 - 2017 cQks ui 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'06'23
No. 2024/47 -  FRIDAY  JUNE  23,  2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
UVA   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
The enactment No. 02 of 2014 of Early Childhood in the Provincial Council of Uva Province
I, Don Arther Chamara Sampath Dasanayake, the Minister of Finace and Planning, Law and Peace, Education, Local Goverment,
Land, Electricity and Power, Construction, Rural Infrastructure of Uva Provincial Council, bring to notice that the Order
seen below is enacted by me, as per the power assigned to me, under the clause 42 of the enactment No. 02 of 2014 of early
childhood in the Provincial Council of Uva Province.
D
ON ARTHER C HAMARA S AMPATH D ASANAY AKE,
 Minister of Finace and Planning, Law and Peace, Education,
Local Goverment, Land, Electricity and Power, Construction,
Rural Infrastructure of Uva Provincial Council.
At the Office of the Ministry,
Kings Street,
Badulla,
On the 14th June, 2017.
ORDER   SUPPLIED   UNDER   THE   ENACTMENT   No.  02  OF   2014  OF   EARLY   CHILDHOOD   IN   THE
PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL   OF   UV A   PROVINCE
1. The order is recognized as the order of early childhood development in Uva Province and it will come into force
since the date of published in the Gazette.
2. The decision given by the subject minister recognized as the “Minister” for education will be the final hereafter
in relation with any reason which will arise related to the order of the early childhood development in Uva
Province recognized as the “Order” hereafter.
3. (1) As per the caluse 18.1(A) of te enactment recognized as “Enactment” of early childhood No. 02 of 2014 in
the Provincial Council of Uva hereafter and the land and the existence of the early childhood education
development center is recognized as “Center” which should be the center free from the natural dangers and
calamity hereafter as mentioned below.
a) The place should be not close to Pond, canal, brook, tank, slops, swamp, slops with risk of stones
rolling and possibility of an earth slip, bushes with thorn anthills, (snakes live) jungle flocks where
poisonous animals loiter.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A PG  3582 — 17  (06/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'06'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.06.2017
2A
b) The place should be not close to electricity power supply line with excessive power, petroleum
filling station, transmission towers, open well and railway tracks,
c) Should be located five hundred meters away from factoreis, metal mills, rice mills, metal quarry,
places where garbage and wastes disposed and places where garbage recycling.
d) Should be located two hundred meters away from places of more motor vehicle transporation, week
and fair, garages, meat stalls, funeral parlors, bus stops and places where more people gather.
(e Should be located two hundred meters away from wine store,s cinema theaters, places selling video
CDs and audio recording centers.
(2) Under the clause 18.1(G) of the enactment in every centere one of few sports equipment and goods which
whould develop the activities of the children listed below from (A) to (G) should be kept.
(A) Activities related to climbing :
I. Sliding boat
II. Climbing to hills
III. Ladder (coconut cells, sticks, plank)
IV . Squre mash
V . Climbing on pyramid
VI. Support/Truss
VII. Bunker
VIII. Climbing on to kithul
(B) Activities related to creeping and crawling  :
I. Club arch way
II. Mat tunnel, barrel tunnel
III. T unnel and room
IV . Tyre tunnel
(c) Activitie related to Equilibrium  :
I. Wooden bridge.
II Walking on tyres
III. Chain Bridge
IV . Creeper Bridge
V . Coconut cell stilt
(D) Activities related to planned works :
I. Pendulum jumping
II. Valakadju beating - Organize in an appropriate place.
(E) Activites related to walking  :
I. Walking on Alli
II. Freely walking
III. W alking on coconut grove
IV . Railway track

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'06'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.06.2017
(F) Activities related to jumping  :
I. Sand well
(G) Activities related to throwing  :
I. Throwing the ball
II. Thowing to target
(H) Other :
I. Play house
II. Play stall
III. Play cupboard
(3)  Under the clause 18.1(G) of the enactment in every center the standard of the furniture should be as below
A. If the table is round it should be 3 feet diameter and twenty inches height. If the table is square it should be
twenty feet height and three feet width and three feet length.
B. The height of legs of the chairs twelve inches one foot length and one foot width the height of the arm
should be twenty four inches.
4. (1) Under the clause 20 of the enactment, the following facilities have to be made available in an existing center
or a center expected to start.
a) All the buildings should be permanent.
b) If the wall is short, the heigth should be over one meter and be protected from rain, wind and hard sun light.
c) The door of the center should not be arranged faced to the main road unprotected, The boundary of the
premises of every enter, faced to the main road, should be covered with the parapet wall height of 2 1/2 feet
and green mesh height of 4 feet.
d) 1/8 of the entire land should be covered with minimum plants.
e) Should be sufficient room for learning circle and open air sports.
f) A wall black board should be fixed in a height of eighteen inches above the floor level to for the use of the
children.
g) Should be enough rush-mats, carpets and mats.
h) Should be a notice board.
i) Should be enough aesthetic instruments.
j) At least one water tap or water supply facility should be made available. In the event of facilities unavailable,
clean drinking water and water for other requirements, there should be enough water stocked safe in a
proper way in the height of easy use of the children.
k) Existing entrance and other facilities should be made available for the use of the bodily handicapped children.
l) Kitchen and the utensils for the use and a suitable place to keep them.
m) There should be enough space to display the creations such as drawings of the children on th wall or
separate display board to display them.
n) There should be a stock room or other facilities to keep the records, sports equipment, books and other
goods protectable belong to the children.
o) There should be a separate place for keeping the bottles, bags and umbrellas of the children as per the
available space of the center.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'06'23
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.06.2017
4A
5. In any case, if there is need for ‘another meaning’ related to the word of these orders :
Will mean :
“Minister” referred to the subject minister of education of Uva Province.
“Enactment” referred to the enactment No. 02 of 2014 of early childhood of the Uva Province Council.
“Center” referred to early childhood education development centre.
“Learning Circle” referred to Cultural, Enviornment, Life skills and Environmental Exploration.
6. If there is a different version in Sinhala and Tamil or English versions the Sinhala version shall be accepted as
correct.
07-209
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.