

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 633
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 630
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"113 – 2019 ud¾;= ui 01 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'03'01
No. 2,113 –  FRiday ,  maRch 01, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd march, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th march, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
627-B 81500- 5,403 (03/2019)
N. B.–   Part i:iii of the Gazette No. 2,112 of 22.02.2019 was not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
628
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
629
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
630
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births, Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of marriages (kandyan/General)
 
GamPaha  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
1. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
2. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
3. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
4. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced person 
or Widow/Widower.
5.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
6. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agent's) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
7. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
01.04.2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 29th January, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post and Division  for which  Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Gampaha mahara Post of Registrar of marriages (General) in 
Siyane Korale West division and Births and 
deaths of Naranwala division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Gampaha.
Gampaha Negombo Post of Registrar of marriages (General) in 
Negombo town area of aluthkuru Korale 
North division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Gampaha.
Gampaha Biyagama Post of additional Registrar of marriages 
(General) in adhikaripattuwa area of 
Siyane Korale West division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Gampaha.
03–54
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrars births, Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
GamPaha  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/
additional Registrar marriages/ additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in 
the Schedule hereto.
1. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and marriage 
Divisions and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence 
in the area.
2. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
3. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
4. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and 
should not be a divorced person or Widow/Widower.
5.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related 
Division of Birth, Death and Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the 
subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public 
places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as 
given in the following Schedule.
6. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama 
Niladhari divisions can be obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agent's 
office) or Land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariats of the District. 
7. complieted applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address give in 
the Schedule on or before 01.04.2019.
 
N. C. V
ithaNage,
 
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 29th January, 2019.
S
Chedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post and Division  for which  Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Gampaha mahara Post of Registrar of marriages (General) in 
Siyane Korale West division and Births and 
death of Naranwala division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Gampaha.
Gampaha Negombo Post of Registrar of marriages (General) in 
Negombo town area of aluthkuru Korale 
North division 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Gampaha.
Gampaha Biyagama Post of additional Registrar of marriages 
(General) in adhikaripattuwa area of 
Siyane Korale West division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Gampaha.
03–54

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
631
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
mataRa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
1. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
2. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
3. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
4. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced person 
or Widow/Widower.
5.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
6. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can 
be obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agent's office) or Land and District Registries or Divisional 
Secretariats of the district. 
7. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address give in the Schedule on or before 
01.04.2019.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 12th February, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat
Post and Division  for which  Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
matara Weligama Post of marriages Registrar of Weligam 
Koralaya division (General) 
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, matara.
03–55

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
632
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
Amendment to closing date of applications called for the Post of Registrar and the Title of the Post
RathNaPuRa diStRict 
i do hereby notify that the closing date of the application for the post depicted in the Schedule hereunder that had been 
published in the Gazette No. 2104 and dated 28.12.2018, shall be extended until 01.04.2019 and the title of the post should 
be amended as "additional marriage Registrar".
02. Please note that only the closing date of the application and the title of the post should be amended while all 
other details stated in the said notification, shall remain unchanged. 
 N. c. 
VithaNage, 
 Registrar General. 
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
SChedule
District Divisional  Secretariat Applicable Division and Post Address of Applications to be Submitted
Rathnapura Kuruwita Post of additional marriage Registrar 
for the division of Kuruwita Korale
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, Rathnapura.
03–53
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
Depose from the Post of Registrar of birth, Death 
and marriage
KaNdy diStRict 
iN pursuant to the powers vested unto me by the chapter 
(B) of Sub-section 05 of Birth and death Registration 
act, No. 37 of 2006 (amended), it is hereby declared 
that mrs. hiddage mudiyanselage chandra hiddage shall 
be deposed from her post of Registrar of Birth, death for 
medasiyapattuwa division No. 01 Registrar of marriage 
(upcountry and General) for harispattuwa division, 
harispattuwa divisional Secretariat in the district of Kandy 
with effect from 01.03.2019.
 N. c. 
VithaNage, 
 Registrar General. 
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
03–52
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
Depose from the Post of Registrar of muslim 
marriage
KaNdy diStRict 
iN pursuant to the powers vested unto me by the Sub-section 
09 of the muslim marriage and divorce (amended) act, 
No. 40 of 2006, it is hereby declared that mr. muhammadu 
muhideen muhammadu Sadique shall be deposed from the 
post of muslim marriage Registrar for delthota division, 
hewavissa Korale of Pathahewaheta divisional Secretariat 
in the district of Kandy, with effect from the 01st day of 
march, 2019.
 N. c. 
VithaNage, 
 Registrar General. 
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
03–51

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
633
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
JuDICIAL SERvICE COmmISSION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Court Clerk Grade III of Court management 
Assistants’ Service in the Scheduled Public 
Officers’ Service – 2018 (2019)
01. aPPLicatioNS are called from Sri Lankan citizens 
who possess the required qualifications for the Open 
competitive Examination for recruitment to court clerk 
Grade iii of court management assistants’ Service of the 
Scheduled Public Officers’ Service.
this examination will be held in June 2019 at the 
examination centers located in the towns mentioned in 
Schedule 01 given below. the Secretary, Judicial Service 
commission reserves the right to postpone or cancel this 
examination subject to the instructions of the Judicial 
Service commission.
this examination will be held only in the examination 
centers located in the towns mentioned in Schedule – 01. 
the expected town to sit for the examination shall be 
selected as per said Schedule and the town expected to sit for 
the examination and the relevant number of the town should be 
mentioned correctly according to the Schedule - 01. the town 
requested to sit the examination that should be mentioned 
in the title of the application should be exactly in line with 
said Schedule. 
applicants are not allowed to change the town which 
they applied to sit the examination later. at the instances 
where the number of applicants apply for a certain town is 
not sufficient to hold an examination centre, they will be 
directed to an examination centre located in an adjoining 
town. in an instance where the number of applicants applied 
is not sufficient to hold examination centers in all or majority 
of proposed towns according to the number of applicants 
that have applied for the examination, the commissioner 
General of Examinations will proceed to conduct the 
examination only in colombo.
02. Conditions of Service :
 2.1 a selected applicant shall be appointed to court 
clerk Grade iii of the court management 
Assistants’ Service subject to general conditions 
governing the appointment in the Public Service, 
terms and conditions set out by the Scheduled 
Public Officers’ Service Minute published 
in the Gazette extraordinary of Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.2088/26 dated 
11.09.2018, amendments already made and will 
be made thereto in due course to the said Service 
minute, provisions of the Establishments code 
and Financial Regulations.
 2.2 This appointment is subject to a probation period 
of three years. The Efficiency Bar Examination 
should be passed within 05 years after recruiting 
to court clerk Grade iii of court management 
assistants’ Service as prescribed in the Service 
minute.
 2.3 the appointments of the applicants who fail 
to assume duties in the post to which they are 
appointed on the due date and/or applicants who 
refuse or neglect to assume duties in a post or in 
an area into which they are appointed, shall be 
cancelled at the discretion of the Judicial Service 
commission.
03. Salary.– as per Judicial Service commission circular 
No. 386 dated 24/06/2016 issued subsequent to No. 03/2016 
by the Judicial Service commission, the monthly salary scale 
prescribed to court clerk Grade iii of court management 
Assistants’ Service of Scheduled Public Officers’ Service 
is (mN 2 – 2016) Rs.28,940 -  10 x 300 – 11 x 350 –                                                                                                    
10 x 560 – 10 x 660 - Rs.47,990 (initial salary - Rs.28,940) 
and you will receive said salary from 01/01/2020. Salary 
will be paid from the effective date of the appointment in 
terms of provisions set out in Schedule ii of above circular.
04. this post is permanent and pensionable. though it 
has been stated above that the posts in the Scheduled Public 
Officers’ Service are pensionable, the officers that are to be 
recruited to court clerk Grade iii of the court management 
assistants’ Service in future will be subjected to the 
decisions taken by the Government and/or  Judicial Service 
commission in relation to the Pension Scheme applicable 
to them.
05. Qualifications.– applicants shall have completed 
following qualifications to be recruited to Court Clerk 
Grade iii of court management assistants’ Service in the 
Scheduled Public Officers’ Service.
 (a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (b) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 
32 years of age on the closing date of applications.
 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
634
  (accordingly, only whose date of birth falls on 
01/03/2001 or prior to said date and whose date 
of birth falls on 01/03/1987 or after said date will 
qualify to apply.),
 (c) Be a person of excellent moral character,
 (d) all the applicants recruited to the Scheduled Public 
Officers’ Service shall have a sound physical and 
mental fitness to service in any part of the Island 
and to perform the duties of the post,
 (e) Applicants should have fulfilled following 
educational qualifications :
 (I) Shall have passed six (06) subjects including 
English with credit passes for Four (04) 
subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language 
and mathematics at the G.c.E.(ordinary 
Level) Examination at one sitting.
     and
 (II) Shall have passed all the subjects in G.C.E. 
(advanced Level) Examination at one sitting 
(Except the common General test and 
General English paper) (Passing three (03) 
subjects under the old syllabus at one sitting 
would be sufficient for this purpose.)
N.B.-  it is compulsory that every applicant should 
have fulfilled all the qualifications required for the 
respective post by 01st of march 2019, which is the 
date of Gazette notification, or prior to said date.
06. Scheme of the examination :
(a) Examination will be held in Sinhala and tamil 
media. applicants may select only one language 
medium of their preferences and should answer 
all the question papers using that language 
medium. applicants will not be allowed to change 
the language medium applied.
the examination consists of two (02) question papers.
Question 
Paper Time Total 
Marks
Minimum marks 
required to pass
1 Language 
Proficiency 02 hours 100 40
2 aptitude 01 hour 100 40
Syllabus of the examination :
01. Language Proficiency:
 This question paper may consist of subject 
related questions designed to test the applicant’s 
ability of expression, comprehension, spellings, 
language and essay, drafting letters, making 
paragraphs and tables based on the given data, 
summarizing passages, expressing the idea of 
several given sentences in one sentence and use 
of simple grammar.
02. Aptitude :
 The paper may consist of subject related 
questions designed to test the applicant’s skill at 
numbers, power of critical reasoning and general 
intelligence.
Note : illegible hand writing will be penalized. these 
papers will consist of multiple choice questions, 
short questions, questions on structured essays and 
essays.
07. a number of applicants equal to the number of 
vacancies allocated for said examination may be appointed 
following descending order beginning from the highest 
scorer of marks amongst the applicants who have passed 
all the subjects of the examination after an interview for 
verification of qualifications. However, the Judicial Service 
Commission may determine not to fill a certain number of 
vacancies.
examination results.– issuance of results to applicants 
will be made by the commissioner General of Examinations 
by post or via the website www.results.exams.gov.lk. 
08. Penalty for furnishing false information.– if it is 
found that any applicant is not eligible, his/her candidature 
will be cancelled at any time before, during or after the 
examination. if any of the particulars furnished by the 
applicant is found to be false with his/her knowledge or if 
he/she has willfully suppressed any important fact, he/she 
will be dismissed from the Public Service.
09. examination Fees.– the examination fee is Rs.400/-. 
the receipt obtained by paying said amount to People’s Bank 
dam Street Branch to the credit of the account of “Secretary, 
Judicial Service commission” 297100199025039 should  
be affixed  using  one  edge  of the  receipt  on the  due place 
of the application so as not to be detached. (a  photo copy 
of the receipt should be kept with the applicant for future 
use.)  the examination fee will not be refunded under any 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
635
circumstances, while money orders and stamps will not be 
accepted in respect of the fee.
10. Method of applying :
(a) applications should be prepared in compliance 
with the specimen application form annexed 
to this notification using both sides of the 
paper of size 8  ½" x 12" (a4) and it should 
be completed in applicant’s own handwriting. 
computerized/typed applications can also be 
used for this purpose. application should be 
prepared including items 01 – 02.12 in the front 
page, items 03 – 06 in the second page and the 
remaining items in the third page. application 
should be completed in applicant’s own 
handwriting in the language medium in which 
the applicant whishes to sit the examination. the 
title of the application should be mentioned in 
English language in addition to Sinhala language 
in Sinhala medium applications and in English 
language in addition to tamil language in tamil 
medium applications. 
 applications which are incomplete and not 
prepared in accordance with the specimen form 
will be rejected without any notice. (it would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form) it is the responsibility of 
the applicant to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/her complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice and 
that the details of the receipt relevant to payment 
of examination fee have been included into the 
application form and has pasted the receipt on 
the application, as otherwise the application will 
be rejected.
(b) application should be prepared in the language 
medium in which the applicant wishes to sit the 
examination.
(c) applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post to reach the address “Secretary, 
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, P.o. 
Box 573, colombo 12” on or before 01.04.2019.
 the words “ Open Competitive Examination 
for recruitment to Court Clerk Grade III of 
the Court management Assistants’ Service in 
the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service – 2018 
(2019)” should be clearly written on the top 
left-hand corner of the envelope in which the 
application is enclosed. any application received 
after the due date will be rejected.
(d) applicant’s signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of 
a Government School, a Justice of Peace, 
commissioner for oaths, an attorney-at-Law, 
Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the 
armed forces, an officer holding a Gazetted post 
in the Police Service or a staff officer holding a 
permanent post in the Public Service. 
(e) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No 
complaints regarding applications lost or delayed 
in the post will be entertained. 
(f) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
the department of Examinations Sri Lanka will 
publish a notice in news papers, departmental 
web sites, once the admission cards are issued to 
the applicants.  however, if the admission card 
is not received even after 02 or 03 days of such 
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify 
the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. 
When informing, the name of the examination 
applied for, full name of the applicant, address 
and National identity card number should be 
mentioned. it would be advisable for applicants 
outside colombo to fax a letter of request 
along with a fax number of the applicant to 
the department of Examinations through the 
fax number 011 – 2784232 mentioned in the 
notification for sending a copy of the admission. 
Further to that, it would be advisable to keep 
a copy of the application, copy of the receipt 
relevant to payment of examination fee and the 
postal article of sending the application to prove 
any information requested by the department of 
Examinations.
11. Identity of applicants.– applicants will be required to 
prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the Supervisor for each subject they offer. For this, any of 
the following documents will be accepted.
(a) National identity card
(b) a  valid passport
(c) a  valid driving license

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
636
12. Sitting the examination :
(a) the commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards to all applicants who have 
sent applications which are complete in every 
respect. an applicant who does not present the 
admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination.
(b) applicant should appear for the examination at 
the center specified for him/her. All the applicants 
should get the signatures placed in the admission 
card relevant to the examination centre ordered 
to, attested and present it to the head of the 
examination hall on the first day they sit the 
examination. a set of rules to be observed by all 
applicants is published at the beginning of this 
Gazette. applicants shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations for the purpose of conducting the 
examination. if an applicant violates these rules, 
he/she is liable for a punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
Note.– the issuance of an admission card to an 
applicant does not necessarily mean that he/she has 
the required qualifications to sit the examination. 
13. any matter not provided for in these rules will be 
dealt with as determined by the Secretary of the Judicial 
Service Commission subject to the instructions of the 
Judicial Service commission.
14. in the event of any inconsistency or contradiction 
between the Sinhala, tamil and English medium 
notifications, the Sinhala notification shall prevail. 
By order of the Judicial Service commission,
    
 h.S. 
SomaratNe,             
   Secretary,
   Judicial Service commission. 
Judicial Service commission Secretariat,
colombo 12,
18th  February 2019. 
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN FoRm
opeN CompetitiVe examiNatioN for reCruitmeNt to 
Court Clerk grade iii of Court maNagemeNt 
aSSiStaNtS’ SerViCe iN the SCheduled publiC offiCerS’ 
SerViCe – 2018 (2019)
  
    (For office use only)
 
01. medium :
 Language medium of examination
 Sinhala  -  2
 t amil      -  3
 (indicate the correct number in the cage)
• Indicate the town and the town number in which the 
applicant intends to sit the examination as per the Gazette 
notification. (See Schedule – 01 for the towns where the 
examination centers are located and for the respective 
numbers.)
Town Number of the town
1.
02. Personal details: 
  2.1  Name in full :–––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)
  2.2  Last name with initials: mr./mrs./miss :–––––––.
   (in English block capitals )     
   eg. : SiRiWaRdaNa , a.P.K.
  2.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
  2.4 Personal address (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––.
  2.5 Residing district :–––––––––––. 
  2.6 address to which the admission card should be 
sent (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  2.7 National identity card No. :
  2.8 date of Birth :
       date :  month : y ear :                   
  2.9 age as at 01.03.2019
    
   y ears :                 months :                days :

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
637
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN FoRm
opeN CompetitiVe examiNatioN for reCruitmeNt to 
Court Clerk grade iii of Court maNagemeNt 
aSSiStaNtS’ SerViCe iN the SCheduled publiC offiCerS’ 
SerViCe – 2018 (2019)
  
    (For office use only)
 
01. medium :
 Language medium of examination
 Sinhala  -  2
 t amil      -  3
 (indicate the correct number in the cage)
• Indicate the town and the town number in which the 
applicant intends to sit the examination as per the Gazette 
notification. (See Schedule – 01 for the towns where the 
examination centers are located and for the respective 
numbers.)
Town Number of the town
1.
02. Personal details: 
  2.1  Name in full :–––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)
  2.2  Last name with initials: mr./mrs./miss :–––––––.
   (in English block capitals )     
   eg. : SiRiWaRdaNa , a.P.K.
  2.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/tamil)
  2.4 Personal address (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––.
  2.5 Residing district :–––––––––––. 
  2.6 address to which the admission card should be 
sent (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  2.7 National identity card No. :
  2.8 date of Birth :
       date :  month : y ear :                   
  2.9 age as at 01.03.2019
    
   y ears :                 months :                days :
  2.10 Sex: male- 0  Female-1   
     (indicate relevant number in the cage)
  2.11 civil Status :
   married - 1 
   unmarried  - 2
   (indicate relevant number in the cage)
  2.12 contact Number :
   Fixed:  
   mobile : 
03. Educational Qualifications :
  3.1 Particulars of G.c.E. (o/L) Examination :
   (1) year and month of the examination :–––––––.
   (2) index number :–––––––––––.
   (3) Results :  
 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
  3.1 Particulars of G.c.E. (a/L) Examination :
   (1) year and month of the examination :–––––––.
   (2) index number :–––––––––––.
   (3) Results :  
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
04. Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
05. have you ever been convicted for any offence by any 
court?
 (Indicate the mark (√) in the relevant cage) (If yes, give 
particulars)
   y es :       No :                             
 .........................................................................................
06. Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the 
examination fee:
    Bank Branch to which the payment was made :––––––.
 Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
  amount :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt firmly here.
(If would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
with the applicant)
07. Applicant’s Certificate :
  (a) i solemnly declare that particulars furnished 
by me in this application are true and accurate 
to the best of my knowledge. i agree to bear 
any consequence that may arise as a result of 
incompleteness of sections and/ or provision of 
erroneous information.  i also state that all sections 
herein have been correctly filled.
  (b) i am aware that if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service 
if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
  (c) Further  to  that, i  hereby  agree to  abide  by all  
the  conditions  imposed   by  the commissioner 
General of Examinations for the purpose of 
holding this examination and issuance of results. 
  (d)  i shall not change any information mentioned 
herein subsequently. 
date :–––––––––––.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
08. attestation of applicant’s signature :–––––––––––.
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss./…..……………  
who submits this application is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence 
on ……………. and further the applicant has paid the 
prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the 
application.
date :–––––––––––.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :–––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by the Official Stamp)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
638
Certificate of the Head of Department
i hereby recommend that mr./mrs./miss. ………………. 
serving in this …………… has fulfilled educational 
qualifications required to apply for Court Clerk Grade III of 
the court management assistants’ Service, that he/she could 
be released from the present post if selected for this post, 
that he/she is not more than 32 years of age by the closing 
date of applications, that he/she placed his/her signature in 
my presence and that i submit his/her application herewith.
date :––––––––––––.
 –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the head of department.
  (Official Stamp)
SChedule – 01
Town Number of the Town
colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
matale 05
Nuwara- Eliya 06
Galle 07
matara 08
hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
mullaitivu 13
Kilinochchi 14
Baticaloa 15
ampara 16
trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
monaragala 23
Ratnapura 24
Kegalle 25
03–267
EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION Of 
SRI LANkA AyuRvEDIC mEDICAL 
SERvICE - 2017-(II)
it s hereby notify that an Efficiency Bar Examination for 
ayurvedic medical Service (For Ayurvedic Medical officers) 
will be held in colombo by the department of ayurveda.
01. candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner of ayurveda.
02. the application for this examination should be in the 
form of the specimen appendix to this notification and should 
be prepared by the candidate him/herself. application should 
be sent by those who are qualified according to the service 
minute of the Sri Lanka ayurvedic medical service, by the 
registered post through the respective heads of institution to 
reach the "Registrar. Examination division, department of 
ayurveda, Nawinna, maharagama on or before 15.03.2019 
Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Ayurvedic 
medical Service - 2017 (ii) " should be indicated at the top 
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application. 
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
the candidates appearing for the examination for the 
first time need not to pay examination fees. However, 
stamps to the value of Rs.230/- should be affixed for the 
whole examinations for subsequent sittings and stamps to 
the value of Rs. 57.50 per subject should be affixed if not 
applying for the whole examination. the stamp should be 
duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the 
date. under any circumstance the fees will not be refunded 
or transferred.
03. Identity of the candidates. –  candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
For this purpose one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor.
 i. the National identity card issued by department 
of Registration of Persons.
 ii. a valid Passport.
04. the commissioner, department of ayurveda will 
issue the timetable and admission card to all candidates 
whose applications have been accepted. candidates 
should get their signature on the admission card attested in 
advance and submit to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
candidates without admission cards will not be permitted to 
I

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
639
sit for the examination. if a candidate has not received his/
her admission card at least seven days (07) before the day 
of examination, he / She should without delay inform the 
"Registrar, Examination division, department of ayurveda, 
Nawinna, maharagama" about the non - receipt of admission 
cards along with the following information :
 i. Name of the Examination :
 ii. Full Name of the candidate:
 iii. Postal address :
 iV . Name of the Post office, Registration Number and 
date of the Receipt:-
05. Scheme of Examination. (according to the service 
minute of the Sri Lanka ayurvedic medical Service.) :
 i.  Financial Regulation - one paper based on the 
following -
 i. Financial Regulation of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Part i (Except 
chapter X)
ii. Establishment code - one paper based on the 
following
 i. chapters - i, ii, iii, iV ,V , Vi, Vii, Viii, Xii, 
Xiii, XiV . XXiii, XXVii, XXiX, XXX, 
XXXii of the V olume i of the establishment 
code of the democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka and Procedural Rules code of 
the Public Service commission.
 ii. chapters - XLVii and XLViii of Part ii of the 
Establishment code of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka.
 iii. hospital administration - one paper based on the 
following -
 i. General rules and regulations relevant to the 
hospitals.
 ii. cleanliness in hospital.
 iii. Rules and Regulations relevant to the patients.
 iv. Supply proper meals to the patients.
 v.  administration of drug manufactures.
 vi. Rules and Regulations regarding the 
admission of patients.
 vii. Knowledge of the duties of all the employees 
in the hospitals.
 viii. General administration in hospitals.
 ix. General administration of the department of 
ayurveda.
 x. Regulation of the stores accounts of the 
department of ayurveda.
 xi. manual of procedure of the department of 
ayurveda.
 iV . Official Languages - Oral test. Sinhala/Tamil                       
(15 minutes)
 i.  For officers who joined the service in 
Sinhala medium -
 (a) answering the tamil questions in 
tamil Language.
 (b) translate tamil sentences to Sinhala 
Language.
 (c) translate Sinhala sentences to tamil 
Language.
 ii.  For officers who joined the service in Tamil 
medium -
 (a) answering the Sinhala questions in 
Sinhala Language.
 (b) translate Sinhala sentences to tamil 
Language.
 (c) translate tamil sentences to Sinhala 
Language.
Note.- candidate must obtain at least 40 marks to pass 
in each subject.
 WaSaNtha perera,
 Secretary,
 ministry of health Nutrition and 
 indigenous medicine.
ministry of health Nutrition and
indigenous medicine,
385, Rev.Baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10,
15h February, 2019.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
640
SPEcimEN  aPPLicatioN  FoRm 
EFFiciENcy  BaR  EXamiNatioN  oF  SRi  LaNKa 
ayuRVEdic  mEdicaL  SERVicE  2017 - (ii)
index No. :
(For office use only)
medium of Examination:
(Write the relevant letter in the cage) 
Sinhala - S tamil - t
01. Name with initials: mr./mrs./miss :–––––––––––.
 (in English capital Letters)
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil)
03. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
 (in English capital Letters)
04. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/ tamil Letters)
05. National identity card No. :
06.  (i) Name and Address of the Office /Department / 
institute - (in English capital Letters) :–––––––––.
  (ii) Province of the Office / Department / Institute : 
–––––––––––.  
07.  (i) Name and Address of the Office /Department / 
institute - (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Telephone No. (Official) :–––––––––––.
08.  (i) Post :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Number and date of the letter of appointment :––––.
09. Subject/ Subjects you wish to Face:-
Serial Number Subject Subject 
No:
10. Have you passed one or more subjects from any of the 
following subjects in previous examination sittings. 
Financial Regulations/Establishment code/ hospitals 
management/oral Examination (tamil/Sinhala).
 if so, index No. year and month.
Subject Index No. Year and 
Month
11. Are you sitting the examination for the first time? :–––.
 If not, value of the stamps affixed :–––––––––––.
 Stamp cage: 
stamp to the value of Rs.230/- for the whole examination 
and Rs 57.50 for each subject.
Note:- The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant 
value and cancel them by placing their signature and 
date. Stamps should not overlap each other.
i declare that the above particulars are true that i am 
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium 
indicated above. i also certify that the Rs. ..........................  
stamps affixed here to are genuine and have not been used 
before. i agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this 
examination.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––––.
Note:- the candidate should sign in the presence of the 
Head of his/her Department /Institute or an officer 
authorized to sign on behalf of such head of the 
department.
Attestation of the Signature
i do hereby certify that  ........................................ who 
forward this application is an officer attached to my office/
known to me personally, and that he/she placed his/her 
signature before me on ..........................................................
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and rubber stamp of the attester.
Name of the attester :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
03–195

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
641
ThIRD EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION 
fOR ThE OffICERS IN GRADE I Of SRI 
LANkA TechnOlOgical Service - 2018
(Three Month certificate course on Management)
it is hereby notified that the aforesaid course shall be 
commenced from July 2019 as a weekend course to be 
conducted on Saturdays for 15 weeks, by the Faculty 
of management Studies and commerce university of 
Sri Jayawardhanapura as per the minute of Sri Lanka 
technological Service published by the Gazette Extra 
ordinary of the Government No. 1930/12 dated 2015.09.01.
02. (i) this course shall be conducted in English medium 
at the Faculty of management Studies and commerce of the 
University of Sri Jayawardhanapura and a final examination 
will be held for each subject at the end of the course. On the 
results of the said examination the passing of the course is 
determined and the applicants who have passed this course 
are treated as completed the Efficiency Bar Examination 
mentioned above. The applicants shall be subjected to the 
rules and regulations imposed by the dean of the Faculty with 
regard to selection of officers for the course, conducting the 
course, conducting the examinations and issuing the results, 
issuing certificates and granting concessionary periods 
for the course. They shall be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by the university of Sri Jayawardhanapura and 
provisions of the Establishments code for violation of the 
rules and regulations imposed by the university.
(ii) you shall be informed with regard to the rules 
and regulations imposed by the university of Sri 
Jayawardhanapura and the course by the university at the 
beginning of the course.
03. the specimen application for this course is published 
at the end of this notification. Applicants should prepare 
their own applications according to the specimen. in case 
where the officer belongs to the Sri Lanka Technological 
Service under the central Government, application of such 
officer shall be sent through the Head of the Department 
and in the meantime the officers in Sri Lanka Technological 
Service under the Provincial Public Service shall send 
their applications through the Secretary of the Provincial 
Public Service commission in the Provincial council 
where they serve. the applications should be sent through 
registered post to dean, Faculty of management Studies 
and commerce, university of Sri Jayawardhanapura, 
Gangodawila, Nugegoda on or before 08th of april 2019. 
"Third Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade 
1 of Sri Lanka technological Service- 2018 (three month 
Certificate Course on Management)” shall be indicated in 
top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application 
is forwarded. The Dean is empowered to reject the 
applications received after the closing date of applications 
without any inquiry.
04. Identity.– candidates shall be required to prove 
their identity to the satisfaction of the dean of the 
Faculty of management Studies and commerce of university of  
Sri   Jayawardhanapura. For  this  purpose,   one  of  the  following 
documents shall be kept at the possession of the applicants  
at the beginning and also during the course in order to submit 
on requirement.
 (a) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (b) Office Identity Card issued by the respective 
institution.
  or
  a  document issued by the respective institution to 
prove the identity.
05. Application :
 (i) applications should be prepared in a paper of 
a4 size. the application could be typewritten, 
but it should be filled in correctly and legibly in 
candidate's own handwriting. at the occasions 
where it is specially mentioned, the applications 
shall be filled in the language medium specially 
mentioned. Special attention should be paid to 
the name of the officer, since the name is used as 
it is indicated in the application at all occasions 
within the course duration. if the said particulars 
are changed within the course duration, it should 
be informed to the dean, Faculty of management 
Studies and commerce of university of Sri 
Jayawardhanapura in writing along with the 
recommendations of the head of the department.
 (ii) Please indicate the title of the examination 
appearing in the specimen in English Language 
as well, on both Sinhala and tamil application 
forms. applications that do not comply with 
the specimen and that have not been perfected 
properly will be rejected without notice. It is 
the responsibility of the candidate to make sure 
that the application form perfected by him/
her complies with the specimen given in the 
notification and further it would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the completed application 
form.
 (iii) a stamp size photograph of the applicant shall be 
pasted in the cage on the top right hand corner of 
the original application and another stamp size 
photograph shall be attached to the application.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
642
06. Course fee and examination fees :
 (i) The officers appearing for this course shall pay either by a cheque issued by the employer or by a bank 
draft of amount of Rs. 17500/- to the current account of the Faculty development Fund of the Faculty 
of management Studies and commerce of university of Sri Jayawardhanapura No. of 097100140002229 
at Peoples’ Bank, Gangodawila Branch. the receipt obtained by the candidate depositing the relevant 
amount shall be submitted to the dean of Faculty of management Studies and commerce of university of 
Sri Jayawardhanapura before the date informed by the course coordinator. institutional charges, printing 
fees, examination fees, allowances for resource providers and charges for coordination are included in the 
above amount.
 (ii) If the officers who are unable to complete the examination of the course at the first occasion wish to sit for 
the examination at the consequent sittings, they are required to pay a registration fees of Rs. 1,000 and an 
examination fee of Rs. 2,000. When making these payments, the instructions of the dean of the Faculty of 
management Studies and commerce of university of Sri Jayawardhanapura shall be followed.
 (iii) under no circumstances, the course fee shall be refunded. the examination fee shall not be allowed to 
transfer in respect of any other examination or course or officer.
07.  Requirement to apply for the course
 (i) All the officers shall pass the third Efficiency Bar examination for officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka 
Technological Service before the lapse of five (05) years from the date of promotion to Grade I.
 (ii) In addition to the officers in Grade I, the officers who have passed the second efficiency bar examination 
are also able to complete the course prescribed for the third efficiency bar.
Note: Kindly note to pay the attention of the Head of the Department regarding the seniority of each officer and the 
matters indicated in Para. 7 i and 7 ii above.
08. Selection for the course.– When officers are selected for the course, priority shall be given depending on the 
order of the seniority of the appointment of the officers who were promoted to Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service.
09. All the officers who have submitted applications shall be included in the data base maintained by the Dean of 
the Faculty of management Studies and commerce of university of Sri Jayawardhanapura and 800 persons shall be selected 
annually for the course. A list of names of the applicants who are selected for the course shall be published on the official 
web site of the Ministry of Public Administration and it will be informed to the officers selected by the University of Sri 
Jayawardenapura. the university is not bound to re-inform the same to the applicants who do not participate in the course 
after that and action shall be taken considering it as an opportunity granted to an officer.
10. Syllabus of the course :
Serial 
No.
Syllabus Number 
of credits
Credit 
Hours
01 Public Finance management 02 30
02 human Recourse management (Basic theories) 02 30
03 Conflict Management (Practical application of the theories on Conflict Management in 
achieving the goals and objectives of the organization)
02 30
organizational Behavior 02 30
05 Project Report
A research paper either on an issue in the professional field of candidate or the professional 
field itself
02 30
10 150

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
643
11. the decision of the Secretary of the ministry of Public 
Administration and Disaster Management shall be the final 
with regard to any matter not referred to herein.
 J. J. rathNaSiri,
 Secretary,
 ministry of Public administration and 
 disaster management.
ministry of Public administration and  disaster management,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
13th February, 2019.
(the Gazette Notification and the specimen application 
can be downloaded at www.pubad.gov.lk)
Specimen Application
 Affix a stamp size 
 photograph here
(Official use only)
thiRd EFFiciENcy BaR EXamiNatioN FoR 
thE oFFicERS iN GRadE i oF SRi LaNKa 
tEchNoLoGicaL SERVicE - 2018 
(thREE moNth cERtiFicatE couRSE oN 
maNaGEmENt)
01.  (a)  Name with initials: (indicate the initials at the end 
of the name) :–––––––––––.
   (in English block capital letters) 
   eg. : GuNaWaRdhaNa m.G.B.S.K.
  (b) Name in Full :–––––––––––.
   (in English block capital letters)
  (c)  Name in Full :–––––––––––. 
   (in Sinhala/t amil)
02. indicate whether you belong to Provincial Public 
Service, if not to which public service you belong
 (Public Service - 10/ Western Provincial Public Service 
- 01/ central Provincial Public Service - 02/ Southern 
Provincial Public Service - 03/ Northern Provincial 
Public Service - 04/ Eastern Provincial Public Service - 
05/ North Western Provincial Public Service - 06/ North 
central Provincial Public Service- 07/ uva Provincial 
Public Service - 08/ Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public 
Service- 09)
03. designation (in English Block Letters) :–––––––––––.
04. Sub department/ division to which you belong:
 (in English Block Letters) :–––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––.
05. department to which you belong : 
 (in English Block Letters) :–––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––.
06. Official Address:
 (in English block capital letters)  :–––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
07. Personal address:
 (in English Block Letters) :–––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––.
08. E-mail :–––––––––––.
09. telephone Number:
 Official :
 Personal :
10. Gender:
 male  - m
 Female  - F
 (indicate the relevant letter in the cage)
11. National identity card:
 (Affix a copy of the national identity card signed by the 
candidate to the effect that it is a true copy)
12. (a) If you are an officer in Grade I of Sri Lanka 
technological Service,
  (i) date of promotion to Grade i:
   y ear :                      month : date :
  (ii)  active service period in Grade i as at 08.04.2019:
   y ears :            months :   days :

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
644
   (Submit the copy of the letter of promotion to 
Grade I certified to the effect that it is a true copy, 
as an attachment)
 (b) If you are an officer in Grade II of Sri Lanka 
technological Service,
  (i) date of promotion to Grade ii :
   y ear : month :  date : 
  (ii) active service period in Grade ii as at 08.04.2019 :
   y ears :  months :  days : 
  (iii) Date on which you passed the second efficiency 
bar examination :
   y ear :  month :  day : 
   (Submit the copy of the results sheet of the second 
efficiency bar examination issued by the Head of 
the Department, which has been certified by the 
candidate to the effect that it is a true copy, as an 
attachment.)
i declare that the foregoing particulars are correct and i 
am bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the dean 
of the Faculty of management Studies and commerce, 
university of Sri Jayawardhanapura with regard to 
conducting the course, examination and issuing results and 
the rules and regulations specified in the Establishments 
code and the application has been prepared in conformity 
with the specimen application.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of the Signature
i hereby certify that mr./ mrs./ miss ................................
who is an officer working at my office and is known to me 
personally placed his/ her signature before me on ................
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Attester and official stamp.
date :–––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Department
i hereby certify that the particulars mentioned in 
paragraphs 01 to 12 are accurate and the candidate is an 
officer in Sri Lanka Technological Service who is eligible 
to follow this course as per the note in paragraph 07 and 
subject to the provisions in para 08 and 09 and it is possible 
for the department to pay the prescribed course fee.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department and 
 Official Stamp
date :–––––––––––.
Check List
1.  a  copy of the National identity card signed by the 
candidate to the effect that it is a true copy is attached.
2. A stamp size photograph is affixed on the top right 
hand corner of the application.
3. a stamp size photograph is attached with the 
application.
4. Copy of the letter of promotion to Grade I certified to 
the effect that it is a true copy is attached.
 or
 Submit the copy of the results sheet of the second 
efficiency bar examination issued by the Head of the 
Department, which has been certified by the candidate 
to the effect that it is a true copy is attached.
03–175
–––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of TELECOmmuNICATION, 
fOREIGN EmPLOymENT AND SPORTS 
National Institute of Sports Science 
diPLoma couRSE iN SPoRtS 2019
aPPLicatioNS are invited from suitably qualified 
candidates to follow the diploma course in Sports 
conducted in Sinhala medium by the National institute 
of Sports Science of the ministry of telecommunication, 
Foreign Employment and Sports. the applicants should be 
between 18-35 years of age. (the upper age limit for those 
who are in government service should not exceed 45years)

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
645
01. Educational and Other Qualifications :
 1.1 Should have passed G.c.E. ordinary Level 
Examination in six (6) subjects with three (03) 
credits in not more than two sittings and two 
of the six subjects should be Sinhala or Tamil 
Language and arithmetic or mathematics.
  in addition to the^above, the applicants should 
have obtained:-
 (a) Should have successfully completed a 
course in Sports or Physical Education 
which is not less than six (06) months from 
a recognized school.
  Or
 (b) Should have successfully completed a 
course in sports or Physical Education in 
a training institute or school of the Police, 
armed Forces or civil defense Service
  Or
 (c) Should have served as a teacher in Sports 
or Ground instructor in a local government 
body or should have shown special 
performance in the field of sports with at 
least five (05) years
 experience.
  Or
 (d) Should be a member of a National Sports 
team in any sports and should have 
participated in an international competition.
  Or
 (e) Should have obtained first or second place 
of a district Level competition in National 
Sports Festival conducted by the ministry 
of Sports or first, second or third place in a 
National level competition conducted by a 
National Sports association.
 1.2. applications which do not conform to the 
specimen form will be rejected.
02. Preparation of Application :
2.1 candidates possessing the necessary 
qualifications mentioned above should submit 
their applications in a paper of 8” x 13 1/2” in 
size as per specimen application form appearing 
at the end of this notice. applications should be 
completed in applicant’s own handwriting and 
sent by registered post to reach the director, 
National institute of Sports Science, 100/7, 
independence avenue, colombo 07, on or 
before 01.04.2019.
2.2 “application for the course of diploma in Sports 
2019” should be written at the top left corner 
of the envelope containing the application.
2.3 applicants from the Government Service, 
Provincial    Government     Service,    and   corporations 
should send their applications through the heads 
of their respective departments/institutions. 
the applications which do not conform to this 
requirement will be rejected.
3.  Selection of Candidates.– out of the applications 
received, all candidates who have fulfilled required 
qualifications will be called for a written examination. 
the candidates who are successful at the examination will 
be called for an interview and a physical fitness practical 
examination. those who are successful will be selected to 
follow the course.
4. Details of the course :
 4.1 Syllabus contains five sections as follows.
 (a) General theory of training Study of 
Physical Qualities, Skill development 
techniques & Strategies, training methods, 
aspects of Planning , Principles of training 
Load and tests and a Viva voce examination.
 (b) Theory and Practical of at least ten major 
sports.
 (c) Specialization in track and Field athletics.
 (d) Within the duration of the diploma course, 
specialization is required in one of sports 
for male and female candidates depending 
on the situation in addition to track and field 
athletics.
 (e) Knowledge of general subjects such as 
Sports Physiology, Sports Sociology, 
Sports administration, Sports Statistics, 
organizing methods of Sports Festivals, 
Sports medicine, Sports Biochemistry, 
Sports Nutrition and Sports Psychology.
 4.2  the duration of the course is 12 months.
 4.3 those who are selected to follow the course 
should pay a course Fee of Rs. 60,000/= 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
646
before commencement of the course which is 
not refundable by any means. in the event the 
course fee being paid by a cheque, it should be 
deposited in favour of the “Secretary, ministry of 
telecommunication, Foreign Employment and 
Sports” Please note that only those who paid the 
course fee in full prior to the commencement of 
the course will be enrolled to follow the course.
 4.4 the selected candidates are bound to follow the 
rules and regulations of the National institute of 
Sports Science.
 4.5 candidates who complete the course successfully 
will be awarded with a certificate of “Diploma in 
Sports”
5. Other Conditions :-
 5.1 the ministry does not hold responsibility to 
provide employment to those who complete the 
course.
 5.2 however if the ministry requires, those who 
are following this course should enter into an 
agreement with the director of the National 
institute of Sports Science, they should do so 
accordingly.
 5.3 Highest qualifications or required qualifications 
should be stated in the application and any 
data / details provided thereinafter will not be 
entertained.
 5.4 Any matter which is not specified in this notice 
will be decided at the discretion of the director 
of the National institute of Sports Science.
 director,
 National institute of Sports Science.
100/7, independence avenue, 
colombo 07.
01st march, 2019. 
SpeCimeN appliCatioN form 
NatioNal iNStitute of SportS SCieNCe 
DIPLOMA IN SPORTS - 2019
Passport size photo
01.   (i) Full Name : mr./mrs./miss :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Full Name (in English Block capitals) :
   
  (iv) National identity card No. :
02. address :
  (i) Private :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Official :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Telephone Official :––––––––––––.  Telephone Private :––––––––––––.
03. date of Birth :  y ear : month :  date :
 age on 30.04.2019 : y ears :   months :                     days :

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
647
04. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––––.
 (by descent or by registration) :––––––––––––.
05.  (i) Sex :––––––––––––.
  (ii) marital Status :––––––––––––.
06. Whether you are employed or not :––––––––––––.
  (i) Post :––––––––––––.
  (ii) duration of the service :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Working Place :––––––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications:-
  (i)  G.c.E. (ordinary Level)
   y ear :
   Exam No. :....................................
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
 
  (ii)  G.c.E. (advanced Level) :
   y ear :
   Exam No. :....................................
Subjects Grade
  (III)  Other Education Qualification (Highest Exam/Degree)
   y ear :
   Exam No. :....................................
Subjects Grade

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
648
08. Achievements in Sports :-(Please include your Certificates of highest achievements and special abilities - Please 
attach the photo copies)
  1. Performance over 16 years of age at National School competitions :
    ...................................................................................................................................................................................
    ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  2. Performance at National Sports Festival district/Provincial/National :
    ...................................................................................................................................................................................
    ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  3. Performance at National competitions conducted by National Sports associations :
    ...................................................................................................................................................................................
    ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  4. Participation in international Sports competitions :
    ...................................................................................................................................................................................
    ...................................................................................................................................................................................
09. (i) according to the Gazette notification, Please state, under which qualification category of
  1.1  that you are eligible to apply for the course.
a b c d e
 (II) Give details of qualifications relevant to the category stated above:
    ...................................................................................................................................................................................
    ...................................................................................................................................................................................
10. any other special remarks :–––––––––––––.
12.  Whether you are prepared to pay a course fee of Rs.60,000  if selected :–––––––––––––.
i certify that the particulars given above are true and correct. i am aware that if the Particulars furnished by me are 
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified and removed from the course.
 –––––––––––––––,
 applicant's Signature.
date :–––––––––––––.
For Government / Local Government / corporation Employees only :
director,
National institute of Sports Science:
i recommend herewith the application of mr./mrs./miss ......................................................................employee of  
.................................................. working as ............................................... and i also agree to release him/her from the post 
he/she hold for the period of the course in the event of being selected. 
 
address :–––––––––––––. –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Certifying Officer.
 Confirmation with the rubber frank)
date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the Certifying Officer :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
03–17
*

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
649
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of government Printing, colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the government Printer, Department of government Printing, colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'03'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2019
650
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
thE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2019
 mARCh 01.03.2019 Friday — 15.02.2019 Friday 12 noon
  08.03.2019 Friday –– 22.02.2019 Friday 12 noon
  15.03.2019 Friday –– 01.03.2019 Friday 12 noon
  22.03.2019 Friday –– 08.03.2019 Friday 12 noon
  29.03.2019 Friday –– 15.03.2019 Friday 12 noon
 APRIL 05.04.2019 Friday — 22.03.2019 Friday 12 noon
  12.04.2019 Friday –– 29.03.2019 Friday 12 noon
  18.04.2019 thursday –– 05.04.2019 Friday 12 noon
  26.04.2019 Friday –– 12.04.2019 Friday 12 noon
 mAy  03.05.2019 Friday — 18.04.2019 thursday 12 noon
  10.05.2019 Friday –– 26.04.2019 Friday 12 noon
  17.05.2019 Friday –– 03.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
  24.05.2019 Friday –– 10.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
  31.05.2019 Friday –– 17.05.2019 Friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2019.
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.