

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"046 - 2017 fkdjeïn¾ ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'11'17
No. 2,046 – friday , November 17,  2017
(Published by Authority)
PArt IV (B) — LocAL  GoVernment
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist republic of  Sri Lanka
ImPortAnt  notIce  reGArDInG  AccePtAnce  of  notIceS 
for  PuBLIcAtIon  In  the  WeekLy  “GAzette”
atteNtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th December, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th November, 2017.
electronic transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
  Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1645 - B81227 - 5403 (11/2017)
Page
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance ... 1668
Revenue & Expenditure Returns ... ––
Budgets ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... 1671
  Page 
Posts - Vacant ... 1646
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices - calling for Tenders  ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 1650
By-Laws ... ––
Note.–    (i) Local Authorities Elections (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 02, 2017.
 (ii) Intellectual Property (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of November 02, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1646
Posts – Vacant
SoorIy AWeWA   PrADeShIy A SABhA 
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified permanent residents within the area of Sooriyawewa Pradeshiya Sabha for 
the recruitment of following vacancies of skilled staff of Primary Craff Services pertaining of the Institutionalized Drivers 
Service Department of Southern Provincial Service. 
 Serial Designation No. of Salary Scale and  Education and Other 
 No.   Vacancies Salary Code No.  Qualifications
01 Driver iii 01 As pus. Adm. Cir. 03/2016 - 01. Should have passed at least six   
   Rs. 25,790 - 10x270 - 10x300 -10x330 -   subjects in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination 
   12x350 - Rs. 38,990  in not more than two sittings with two 
     credits.
    02. Should have possessed a motor vehicle 
     for all vehicles issued  by Commissioner 
     General. 
    03. Should have Three Years experience 
     after reviving the motor vehicle 
     driving licence. 
Service Conditions : 
 1. The post is permanent.
 2. The appointment will be subject to a probation period of 3 years.
 3. In addition to these recruitment and regulations, the appointees will be subject to Establishment Code, 
Financial Regulations, Departmental orders and regulations and orders which be enacted from time to time 
by the Government or Southern Provincial Council. 
Geneal Conditions of Recruitment : 
 01. Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka by decent or registration.
 02. Applicant should have moral character and be in good health.
 03. Applicant should prove their permanent residence for the period of recent three area within the area of 
Sooriyawewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
 04. Age should not be less than 18 years as at the closing date of applications. But age limit is not applicable 
for those who are already employed in Public Service or Provincial Public Service.
 05. Qualified persons will be selected through written/structural/practical interview as necessary.
 06. Applicant should not have been convicted or punished by a court of law under Penal Code or dispelled from 
Public Service.
 07. Full powers of delaying or changing or amending or amending this recruitment after or between calling 
application are reserved with the Chairman of Sooriyawewa Pradeshiya Sabha.
 08. Priority will be given to those who have service experience.
Method of application.– Applicants should apply through an application prepared as per the specimen given at the 
end of this notice on or before 08/12/2017 to Secretary Pradeshiya Sabha, Sooriyawewa under registered post. On the top 
left hand corner of the envelope post applied for has to be mentioned. Late application will be rejected. 
Photocopies of following certificates should be attached to the application : 
 1. Certificate of Birth, 
 2. Education Certificates, 
 3. Certificates of proving residence (counter signed by Divisional Secretary),

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1647
 4. Two recent testimonials,
 5. Certificates of other qualifications or service experience, 
 6. A copy of the certificate of proficiency relevant to the post. 
  Incomplete applications will be rejected and only applicants who have possessed basic qualification will be 
called for interview. 
  W. G. Karunarathna, 
  Secretary, 
  Sooriyawewa Pradeshiya Sabha. 
31st October, 2017. 
Specimen Application 
APPLICATION OF ThE POST OF DRIVER (GRADE III)
01. Applicant's name with initials :–––––––––.
02. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––.
03. Permanent residential :–––––––––.
04. Sex :–––––––––.
05. Marital Status :–––––––––.
06.   (i)  Date of Birth :–––––––––.
   (ii) Age as at 08.12.2017 : Years :–––––––––.  Months :–––––––––.  Days :–––––––––.
07. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––.
08. Race :–––––––––.
09. Are you citizen of Sri Lanka ? If so by desent or registration recide :–––––––––.
10. Period of residence in Sooriyawewa Pradeshiya Sabha :–––––––––.
11. Education Qualifications :–––––––––.
12.  Details held : Place of Service : Period of Service :
13. Other Qualifications :–––––––––.
14. have you ever been convicted by a court under Panel Code ? :–––––––––.
 If so give details :–––––––––.
I do hereby certify that above details furnished by me are true and correct. I am aware that I will be disqualified and 
dissolved from the service if any information is found false after the selection. I further been convicted by a court and set my 
usual signature hereto certify that I have never. 
   ––––––––––––––,
   Applicant's Signature. 
date :–––––––––.
11–807
–––––––––––––––––
PrADeShIyA SABhA - mAtArA 
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified applicants for the recruitment for following vacancies of Office Employee in 
Matara Pradeshiya Sabha. 

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1648
Designation No. of 
Vacancies
Salary Scale Educational Qualifications General Qualifications
Office 
Employee
01 P. L.1 2016
As per Pub. Admin. 
Circular 03/2016. 
Rs. 24,250 - 10x250 
- 10x270 - 10x300 - 
12x330 - Rs. 36,410
Should have passed 
G. C. E. (O/L) in six 
subjects with Two Credit 
passes in not more than two 
sittings.
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
* Should bear a moral character.
* Should be a permanent resident 
with the area of Matara 
Pradeshiya Sabha within 03 
years as at closing date of 
applications. 
* Residence has to be proved with 
a certificate issued by Grama 
Niladari and counter signed by 
Divisional Secretary.
* All educational qualifications 
should have been completed 
as at the date of calling 
applications mentioned in the 
Gazette.
Other :
 01.  Priority will be given to those who are already in the service of Matara Pradeshiya Sabha on permanent/
casual/substitute/temporary/contract basis.
 02. Age should be not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of applications. 
(Maximum age limit will not apply for those who are in the permanent service at present).
 03. Applicant should not have been convicted and punished by any court of law under Penal Code and should 
not be a person who has been dispelled from Provincial Public Service.
 04. The Secretary of Matara Pradeshiya Sabha reserves the right of delaying or changing or cancelling or 
amending this recruitment or this notice on or after calling applications. 
Method of Recruitment  : 
 01. Selection will be made through an interview. 
 02. Only qualified persons will be called for the interview. 
Service conditions :
 1. This post is permanent and pensionable.
 2. Contribution will be made to Widow/Widower and Orphans Pension Scheme.
 3. Appointment will be subject to probation period of 03 years and permanent appointments will be awarded 
only for servants whose works, attendance and conduct are satisfactory at the end of such probation period 
of 03 years.
 4. All appointees shall adhere to serve according to Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Departmental 
Orders and regulations and orders which will be enacted from time to time by the Government or Southern 
Provincial Council. 
How to apply.– Application prepared in A4 paper as per the specimen given here should reach on or before 
04.12.2017 to "Secretary" Pradeshiya Sabha, Matara under registered post. On the top left hand corner of the envelope in 
which the application is enclosed post applied for has to be mentioned. Incomplete or delayed applications will be rejected. 
Copies of following certificates should be attached with the application and originals have to be submitted at the 
interview :
 01. Certificate of Birth, 
 02. Educational certificates,

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1649
 03. Recent Grama Niladari's certificate to prove the residence (Counter signed by Secretary),
 04. 02 recent character certificates,
 05. Certificates on experience, 
 06. Service certificate if employed in Matara Pradeshiya Sabha.
  Secretary, 
  Matara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Matara Pradeshiya Sabha, 
matara, 
30th October, 2017.
For office use
Application for the Post of Office Employee of Matara Pradeshiya Sabha
01.  Applicant's name (With initials) :––––––––––.
02. Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
03. Permanent Residential Address :––––––––––.
04. Telephone Number :––––––––––.
05. District :––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth : Year :––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––. Date :––––––––––.
07. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
08. Age as at closing date of application : Years :––––––––––.  Months :––––––––––.  Days :––––––––––.
09. Sex :––––––––––.
10. Civil status :––––––––––.
11. Race :––––––––––.
12. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? If so by decent or registration :––––––––––.
13. Educational Qualifications : O/L, A/L
Subject Grade obtained Subject Grade obtained
14. Experience and professional qualifications :––––––––––.
15. If you are already employed in Matara Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 1. Present Post :––––––––––.
 2. Date of appointment to that post :––––––––––.
 3. Type of that appointment (Permenant/temporary/casual/substitute/contract) :––––––––––.
I do hereby certify that above details furnished by me are true and correct. I am aware that I will be disqualified if 
any information is found fault before selection and I will be subject to be dispelled from the service paying no compensation 
if such an information found fault after the appointment. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Applicant's Signature. 
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1650
Certificate of the Head of Department/Institution for the applicants who are already in the service : 
The applicant Mr./Miss./Mrs. ....................................... has been employed in this Department/Institution as 
............................. The particulars furnished by him/her are true and he/she can be/cannot be released from the service if 
selected for above post. he/she has not been subject to any disciplinary punishment and this application is recommended 
and submitted/not submitted. 
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and Official stamp of the 
 head of Department/Institution.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Department/Institution :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
11–827
Local Government Notifications
the munIcIPAL  councIL  of kuruneGALA
Property rates 2018
it  is hereby notified that the Municipal Council of Kurunegala has in terms of section 230 of the Municipal Council is 
Ordinance (Chapter 252) and subject to the provisions contained therein resolved to make and assess for the year 2018 a rate 
of five percent (5%) of the annual value of all houses and buildings of every description, a rate of six percent (6%) of the 
annual value of all trade commercial lands and tenements. What so ever within the administrative limits of the Kurunegala 
Municipal Council for the year 2018.
The said rate is payable in four quarterly installments on or before 31
st  March, 30th  June, 30th  September and 31st  
December 2018 respectively.
It is hereby further notified in terms of the amendments to section 230 and 255 of the Municipal Council Ordinance 
(Chapter 252) by the Municipal Councils and Urban Councils (Amendment) Act, No. of 1979 that,
 ( a) A rebate of 10% (Ten percent) will be allowed if the rates due to the year 2018 are paid in full on or before 
the 31
st  day of January 2018
 ( b) A rebate of 5% (Five percent) will be allowed if the rates due for any quarter of the year 2018 are paid 
within the first month of the period for which the installment of rate is due.
Warrant costs on arrears of rates will be levied as stipulated here under.
 a. 15% (Fifteen percent) on residential premises and bare lands.
 b. 20% (Twenty percent) on properties other than bare lands, and residential premise.
 c. 20% (Twenty percent) on undeveloped lands.
 PradeeP tilaKaratne,
 Municipal Commissioner.
Municipal Council,
Kurunegala.
01st November, 2017. 
11-897/1

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1651
kuruneGALA   munIcIPAL   councIL  
Assessment Book for the year – 2017
NOTICE is hereby given under section (235) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance (Chapter 252) that the Assesment book 
of the council for the year 2017 is now ready and open for inspection at council's office during normal office hours.
 PradeeP tilaKaratne,
 Municipal Commissioner.
Municipal Council,
Kurunegala.
01st November, 2017. 
11-897/2
––––––––––––––––––––
nAuLA  PrADeShIy A  SABhA  
Standard By-laws of Local Government Institutions Act, no. 06 of 1952
IT is hereby given notice that the following decision constituted under Sub-section 09(03) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 
15 of 1987 under the power vested in Sub-section (1) of Section 3 of Local Government Act (Standard By-laws) No. 06 of 
1952 in Chapter 261.
 G. h
. M. uPul Priyadarshana , 
 Secretary, 
 Naula Pradeshiya Sabha. 
Naula Pradeshiya Sabha, 
27th day of October, 2017.
RESOLUTION 
It is hereby notified that the resolved By-laws notice published in Part IV(A) in the Gazette No. 2017/42 dated 
05.05.2017 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, approved by the Central Provincial Council, published in Part 
the IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1955/7 dated 23.02.2016 prepared by the Minister-in-charge of Local Government in Central 
Provincial Council in terms of powers vested on him under the Sub-section (1) of Section (2) Act, No. 06 of 1952 in Chapter 
261 of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, which is to be read concurrently with the Sub-section (1) Chapter (A) of Section 2 of 
the Provincial Council (Consequential Provision) Act, No. 12 of 1989.
 01. The by-laws relating to the inspection of building plans in respect of the construction of buildings within the 
Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits and levying fees. 
 02. The by-laws for levying charges on service, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 03. The by-laws relating to park the three wheel, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 04. The by-laws relating to the Public Library, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 05. The by-laws relating to the Itinerary Trading, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 06. The by-laws obtaining term reports and information for levying taxes, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha 
Authority limits. 
 07. The by-laws of harmful trade, dangerous trade and relating to harmful and dangerous business, within the Naula 
Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1652
 08.  The by-laws relating to sell of fish, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 09. The by-laws relating to fair of Pradeshiya Sabha, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 10. The by-laws for regulating and controlling decorations, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 11. The by-laws of the usage of public latrines, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 12. The by-laws relating the propaganda notices, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 13. The by-laws relating regulation and control of livestock farms, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority 
limits. 
 14. The by-laws relating to the parking places for hired vehicle, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 15. The by-laws relating to sale of meat, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 16. The by-laws relating to private tuition institutions, within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
 17. The by-laws on controlling weight and speed of vehicles running over roads belongings to Pradeshiya Sabha, 
within the Naula Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits. 
These resolutions will be in force from the date published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka, all the above said By-laws and the By-laws which were already in force within Naula Pradeshiya Sabha limit will be 
cancelled from 12.00 mid night of the previous day and conclude the decision of the Council No. 447 of 19.10.2017 under 
the powers vested in me, under the Sub-section 09(03) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
11–896
–––––––––––––––––
mAhArAGAmA urBAn councIL
NOTICE in terms of Sections 50 and 52 of Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) in terms of Sections 50 and 52 of Urban 
Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) the administrative committee has decided that road referred to in the following Schedule 
situated in the limits of Urban Council in the Maharagama Division in the District of Colombo in the Western Province be 
declared as the road belonging to the Maharagama Urban Council. According it is hereby notified that the road referred to 
in the Schedule is declared as they are owned by the Maharagama Urban Council.
02. If there is any objection regarding this matter from the general public or relevant land owners' reasons for such 
objections should be produced in writing within period of month from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette. 
03. It is hereby notified for the information of the general public that if no objection is lodged within this period 
referred to in this Schedule will be accepted and controlled as they belonging to the Maharagama Urban Council.
 Secretary and Executing Officer of Authority, 
 Functions Tasks of the Urban Council. 
 Secretary (Act ).
30th October, 2017.
Serial
No.
Plan Number, Date 
and name of the 
Surveyor
Name of the Road Grama Seva Division Length of 
the Road
Width of 
the Road
Beginning 
of the 
Road
End 
of the 
Road
01 P. No : w ( 3031/9000 By Road of 
Viwekarama Road, 
mirihana
No. 523, Mirihana 
South
228ft. 10ft. 211/63 
sq. ft.
211/67 
sq. ft.
11–776

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1653
P ASBAGe  korALe  PrADeShIy A   SABhA  
Standard By-laws
LOCAL  AUThORITIES  STANDARD  BY-LAWS  ACT,  No.  06  OF 1952
BY virtue of power vested in, it is hereby announced the under mentioned Resolution, under Chapter 261, Sub-section 
(1) of Section 3 of Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) No. 6 of 1952 and Sub-section 09(03) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,                
No. 15 of 1987.
 h . t. sarath WicKraMasinghe, 
 Secretary, 
 Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, 
 Rambukpitiya. 
Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, 
18th September, 2017.
RESOLUTION 
It is hereby notified that the under mentioned By-laws complied by the Minister in charge of Local Government 
subject in the Central Provincial Council, by virtue of power vested in the Minister in charge of Local Government subject 
of the Central Provincial Council, under Chapter 261 of Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Local Authorities Act (Standard 
By-laws) No. 6 of 1952, read along with with paragraph (a), Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act 
(Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, published in the Section IV(a) of the Government Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1955/7 dated 23.02.2016, approved by the Central Provincial Council through the 
Gazette notification No. 2017/42 and dated 05.05.2017, in Part IV(a) of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
01. By-laws related to controlling Tare Weight and Speeds of vehicles plying in Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha 
owned roads. 
02. By-laws related to Levy of charges on inspection of Plans of Building Constructions within the limits of 
Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
03. By-laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha related to Itinerary Trading. 
04. By-laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha related to the fairs.
05. By-laws of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha on fish trading.
06. By-laws related to the Levy of Service Charges of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha. 
07. By-laws related to Slaughter houses of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha. 
By virtue of power vested in me under Sub-section 09(03) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I have 
decided to enforce the above said By-laws within the jurisdiction of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha, from the date of 
publication of this notification in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and to cancel the said By-
laws were in force up to the 12 midnight of the previous day of the publication, through the Resolution No. 392:03 and dated 
18.09.2017.
By-laWs of PasBage Korale Pradeshiya saBha on controlling Weigh and sPeed of Vehicles running on 
Pradeshiya saBha thoroughfares
01. Pradeshiya Sabha has been assigned with power under Section 126(vii)(c) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 
to draft this By-law.
02. These By-laws shall be enforced to specify weight and speed limits in Pradeshiya Sabha roads in Pradeshiya 
Sabha areas of authority and thereby to prevent damages that may be caused to roads or thoroughfares and allocate 
provisions to control transportation of heavy vehicles in such roads. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1654
03. These By-laws shall be named as the By-laws on Controlling Weigh and Speed of Vehicles running on Pradeshiya 
Sabha thoroughfares. 
04. From among the Pradeshiya Sabha thoroughfares located within the Pradeshiya Sabha areas of authority, it is 
lawful for the Pradeshiya Sabha to decide and announce by way of a resolution passed at the Council from time to 
time as to the maximum weight and speed of a vehicle to be run on a Pradeshiya Sabha road or on part thereof. 
05.  The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall display by way of a notice board prepared as per format indicated 
in the Schedule below and erected alongside the relevant road or at the starting and ending points of the part of 
the road or at access points from other roads connecting to the said road or part thereof, the maximum weight and 
maximum speed of a vehicle to run on a Pradeshiya Sabha road or part thereof as decided by the Council as per 
Section 4 above. 
06. Every notice displayed under above Section 5 shall be prepared and displayed according to provisions stated in 
Thoroughfares Ordinance and Motor Transport Act. 
07. Every decision taken under above Section 4 shall be made having taken the following matters into consideration :
 ( a) Width of the relevant road, 
 ( b) Nature and thickness of material used to construct the road surface, 
 ( c) The slanting angle of the road,
 ( d) The nature of the land on which road has been constructed,
 ( e) The weight endurable by bridges and culverts,
 ( f) Nature of vehicles travelling.
08. Where a road or part thereof be closed down due to reconstruction or other activity to a Pradeshiya Sabha road, a 
notice related to such closure shall be displayed by the Chairman three days prior to such closure, at the connecting 
point to the relevant road or part thereof and at other access points from other roads to the said closed down road. 
09. Where the Pradeshiya Sabha has displayed a notice under Section 5 of this By-laws after deciding the weight and 
speed limits to a Pradeshiya Sabha road, no person shall drive vehicles in such road exceeding the weight and speed 
limits specified thus. 
10. Where weight and speed limits have been decided under this By-laws for a Pradeshiya Sabha road, no person shall 
discard or dispose of any material, or discharge collected water to such road, in a manner causing damage to the 
said road. 
11. Where weight and speed limits have been decided under this By-laws for a Pradeshiya Sabha road, no person shall 
let a tree or part of thereof protrude on to the road obstructing the speed to be maintained in such road. 
12. In the event of a person continuously utilizing a Pradeshiya Sabha road or part thereof, which has a weight and 
speed limitation imposed as per Section 4 of this By-laws, for a business task to transport the maximum weight, it 
is lawful for the Pradeshiya Sabha to charge a fee as decided by it as compensation to damage caused to the road or 
part therein on a contract reached by Pradeshiya Sabha with such person. 
13. It is lawful for the Chairman, on timely necessity, to make an order to be valid for some time to limit transportation 
of a maximum weight, or to limit travelling of vehicles, or to allow travelling of vehicles to one side on a Pradeshiya 
Sabha road or on part therein or decide on the maximum speed to be maintained at such times by further limiting 
the maximum speed prescribed as per Section 4 above. 
14. Contravening any of the provisions of these By-laws is an offence and when convicted in a Court of Law having 
jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously and when 
convicted or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by an 

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1655
other authorized officer, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine imposable for 
each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under Sub-section (2) of Section 122 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. 
15. Taking proper and suitable action by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him to inspect the weight of a vehicle 
travelling on a road with maximum weight and speed declared as per Section 4 of this By-laws, shall be lawful. 
16. Unless other interpretation is required with regard to text : 
"Council" means the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha established under Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 
1987.
"Chairman" means the Chairman selected for the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Person" means an individual or board of persons or a statutory institution.
"Vehicle" includes the interpretation given under Motor Traffic Ordinance.
"Weight" includes the total weight directed on to the axel including the weight of the vehicle and material 
loaded into it from outside. 
schedule
  Maximum Weight Maximum Speed
  ................................... Tonne ....................................... km P. h.
  Chairman, Chairman, 
  Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha. Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
11–673/1
––––––––––––––––––––
By LAWS  reLAtInG  to  InSPectIon  of  BuILDInG  PLAnS  In  reSPect  to  conStructIon  
of  BuILDInGS  WIthIn  PASBAGe  korALe  PrADeShIyA  SABhA  AuthorIty 
LImItS  AnD  LeVyInG  feeS
01. These By Laws are farmed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under Provisions of Section 126 (viii) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.  
02. These By Laws are to be enforced for inspection of plans and levying fees in respect of plans for construction 
of buildings and plans of lands in respect of such allotments of lands where buildings are to be constructed 
within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas where provisions of housing and Urban Development Ordinance is 
applicable.
03. These By Laws are called and known as the By Laws for Inspection of Plans for Construction of Buildings and 
Plans of Lands relating to such allotments of lands within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
04. Every permanent construction to be erected underground and on ground surface in any land within authority area 
and every allotment of land relating to the construction shall be according to a plan approved by the Chairman, 
according to the provisions of housing and Urban Development Ordinance.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1656
05. For the purpose of obtaining approval for a plan for construction of a building on any land within the authority 
area and for the plan of such allotment of land or for such sub division, an application should be made according 
to the provisions of housing and Urban Development Ordinance as amended by the Act, No. 53 of 1953 and such 
application shall be obtained from the Pradeshiya Sabha, on payment of fees prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha 
from time to time.
06. According to the housing and Urban Development Amendment Ordinance as amended by the Act, No. 53 of 
1953, every application for construction of building shall be for an allotment of land approved by the said Act.
07. Plans in respect of every application to be forwarded according to aforesaid Section No. 06 shall be inspected and 
be checked by a Committee, constituted upon a decision of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
08. For the purpose of aforesaid  Section 07, it is lawful to levy a fee determine by a resolution passed by the 
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
09. Inspection of building plans of relevant lands or sub divisions such lands and approving of such plans shall be 
according to provisions of housing and Urban Development Ordinance and be according the regulations farmed 
under the said Act.
10. Every plan application forwarded for approval shall be approved within 30 days of the receipt of such application 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha office and where as application is to be rejected, the applicant should be informed in 
writing the decision for rejection with the reasons for the same.
11. When the Pradeshiya Sabha determines a payment of an additional remuneration for the constituent member of 
the Committee under Section 07 of this by Laws, it is lawful to make such payment within the approval of the 
Commissioner of Local Government of the relevant Province.
12. Where an application forwarded under Section 05 of this By Laws is an application for approval of allotments of 
lands relating to construction and where the entire extent of the land is subject to sub divisions and is 1 hectare 
of land of exceeds such amount, and where such sub division consist of eight allotments of land or exceeds such 
amount, an extent of 10 per cent from the remaining portion of land, after leaving any extent of land to be used 
for roads relating to the sub division shall be gifted to the Pradeshiya Sabha, for use of the common amenities of 
the relevant land.
13. Contravening any of the provisions of these by laws is an offence and when convicted in a Court of Law having 
jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention is committed continuously and when 
convicted  or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering written notice by the Chairman or by an 
other authorized officer, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine imposable for 
each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under sub Section (2) of Section 122 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
14. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, 
 "Council" means the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
 "Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
 "Person" means an individual and includes incorporated or non corporate board of individuals too.
11-673/2

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1657
By LAWS of P ASBAGe korALe PrADeShIy A  SABhA  reLA tInG to ItInerAry trADInG
 01. These By Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126 (x) of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
 02. These By Laws are enforced for the purpose of regulating, supervising and controlling of itinerary trading within the 
Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
 03. These By Laws are cited as the By Law relating to itinerary trading in the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha Authority 
areas.
 04. No person in any street or road or public ground or common ground or public place, shall sell or keep for sale or take 
here and there by a bicycle, tricycle, carts or a vehicle for sale any article, goods or food items whatsoever unless he 
is in possession of a license issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha for such purpose by the Chairman of the Pasbage Korale 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
 05. Every license issued under By Law No. 4, shall be valid for the period which it is issued, unless it is cancelled. The 
valid period of a license shall not exceed a calendar year.
 06. Anybody expecting to obtain a license mentioned in Section 4 of this By Laws, shall forward an application 
substantially prepared in accordance with the Schedule A. It can be obtainable by paying a prescribed fee determined 
by the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
 07. Every license issued under the Schedule B of this By Laws substantially prepared, considering the period issued and 
the fees for the issue of license shall be determined by the Council from time to time.
 08. Every itinerary trader shall wear the part or exhibit the portion of the license issued by the Chairman, prominently at 
every time when he is engaged in business.
 09. It is duty of every itinerary trader to produce his license and documents when he is asked to do so by the Chairman 
or by an authorized officer.
 10. A licensed itinerary trader according to the nature of trading has the right to engage in trading between 6.00 a.m. to 
10.00 p.m. however, if the Chairman has given him premission to engage in business outside such specified time 
period and if mentioned so in license, such licensee has right to be engaged in business during such period.
 11. If the licensee is suffering from any contiguous disease, he shall refrain from engaging in business activities.
 12. Every itinerary trader engage in the business of selling foods shall comply with the following requirements.
 ( a) Food taken for sale shall not be kept exposed to flies, dust, germs and bad odour and shall not allow customers 
to handle and touch them.
 ( b) Vehicles, bicycles, carts, vessels and pans etc. and all equipment used for handling contacting food shall be 
kept cleaning daily.
 ( c) Papers or any material used for wrapping food items shall be in suitable condition for such purpose.
 ( d) Clean equipments, pots and pans shall be used for handling and cooking food. 
  A person suffering from any contagious disease shall not be engaged in the sale of food.
 ( e) Fire shall not be used causing any danger or hindrance to any individual or individuals.
 ( f) Waste matter or waste water shall not be disposed on to any public place and arrangements shall be made to 
dispose them under sanitary conditions according to the satisfaction of the Chairman.
 

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1658
 13. Meat of any animal or animals mentioned under the Butcher's Ordinance shall not be sold by any itinerary trader.
 14. The Chairman shall prohibit the sale of cooked food items by any itinerary trader in an area, zone, street or road 
declared as prohibited area through a license is issued, when there is an epidemic or infections disease spreading or 
where such a disease has already spread or on special reasons.
 15. The waste shall not left here and there in the environment, unless the waste generated from the itinerary trading 
disposed under the system introduced by the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
 16. Though a license in issued under this By Law, itinerary trading is prohibited inside a public market.
 17. Any itinerary trader shall not engage in business remaining at a place for a long time.
 18. Contravening of any one if aforesaid By Laws shall be an offence and when convicted in a court of law having 
jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously, and when 
convicted, or in the case of continous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by an officer 
authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine imposable for each day 
of continuing such contravention shall be as defined in Sub-section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987.
 19. For the purpose of these By-Laws unless the context otherwise required,
"Council" means the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Pradeshiya sabha Authority Area" means Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
"Food" means food and beverages used for human consumptions.
"Itinerary Trading " means business carried out by bringing material by a person himself or by using an animal 
or bicycle or tricycle. 
Schedule - A
APPLICATION FOR A LICENCE OF ITINERARY TRADING
 1. Applicant's Name in Full :–––––––––––.
 2. Applicant's Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
 3. Applicant's Temporary Address :–––––––––––.
 4. National Identity Card Number of the Applicant :–––––––––––.
 5. Applicant's Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
 6. Nature of Itinerary Trade :–––––––––––.
 7. Type of Itinerary Trading :–––––––––––.
 8. Area Applied for :–––––––––––.
 9. Authority area of the applicant reside :–––––––––––.
 10. Required Period :–––––––––––.
 11. Registered Number of the vehicle utilized in Itinerary Trading :–––––––––––.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Applicant. 
date :–––––––––––. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1659
Instructions : 
 1. A copy of Identity Card should be enclosed. 
  Revenue Inspector's Recommendation on the Issue of Licence.
   ––––––––––––––––,
   Revenue Inspector. 
  Subject Clerk's Report on the Issue of LIcence.
   ––––––––––––––––,
   Subject Clerk. 
date :–––––––––––.
  Issue of Licence is Recommended/Not Recommended.
   –––––––––––––––,
   Secretary.
date :–––––––––––.
  Issue of Licence is approved/not approved. 
   –––––––––––––––,
   Chairman, 
   Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha. 
date :–––––––––––.
Schedule - B
LICENCE ISSUED FOR ITINERARY TRADING
 1. Full Name of the Applicant :–––––––––––.
 2. N. I. C. Number of the Applicant :–––––––––––.
 3. Nature of Trade :–––––––––––.
 4. Area given permission :–––––––––––.
 5. Time duration permitted :–––––––––––.
   –––––––––––––––,
   Chairman, 
   Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha. 
date : –––––––––––.
   
(This portion shall be wear in a clearly visible manner or exhibited)
Licence Issued for Itinerary t rading within the authority areas of Pradeshiya Sabha
 1. Name in Full :–––––––––––.
 2. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
 3. N. I. C. Number :–––––––––––.
 4. Signature of the Licence holder :–––––––––––.
 5. Area Permitted :–––––––––––.
 6. Permitted Period :–––––––––––.
 7. Nature of Trade :–––––––––––.
   –––––––––––––––,
   Chairman, 
   Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha. 
  date :–––––––––––.
11-673/3

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1660
By-LAWS of P ASBAGe korALe PrADeShIy A SABhA reLAtInG to fAIrS
01. These By Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126 (xii) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
02. These by Laws are enforced for the  purpose of regulating fairs to be held within the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya 
Sabha auhthority areas.
03.  These By Laws are cited as the By Laws for fairs of Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
04. Boundaries and limits of each fair (hereinafter called as fair area) conducted by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be 
determined by the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time through Resolutions and declared to the 
Public.
05. Conducting  days and  time of fairs in a week shall be determined and declared by the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya 
Sabha from time to time.
06. Unless the fairs controlled and maintained by an operational agreement, resolved by the Pasbage Korale 
Pradeshiya Sabha, no persons shall engage in any trade activity in any specifically mentioned place for holding  
a fair without a valid permit to be issued by the Chairman or by the officer authorized by him.
07. A fees for a licence, mentioned in the Section 6 above, shall be determined by the Sabha from time to time 
through Resolutions.
08. Nobody shall sell or exhibit for sale any commodities  or goods other than the types of goods or materials for 
which a particular trading limits has been allocated. Nobody shall do itinerary trading inside of the fair.
09. No acts shall do inside of a fair such as,
 ( a) The space reserved for walking and purchasing of goods using to sell, exhibit and keeping Goods 
obstructing consumers.
 ( b) Begging
 ( c) Conduct himself any undisciplined manner or making hindrances to others.
 ( d) Cooking activities.
  Remain inside the premises after the closure of the fair, mentioned in the licence.
 ( e) Collecting over charges by the lessee or by his agent, other than  charges permitted to collect by the 
Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
 ( f) Damage or harm any public properties and Pradeshiya Sabha properties and do unfair acts or letting to do 
such acts.
 ( g) Washing clothes, vehicles and bathing inside ths fair using its water taps.
 ( h) A person suffering from contagious, infections or skin disease selling,exhibiting or transporting goods 
inside the fair or a person nursing such patients selling, exhibiting or transporting goods to the fair.
 ( i) Selling unclean goods, selling goods brought from unclean and disease spreading areas selling goods 
with unfair manners.
 ( j) Not using correct weighing instruments.
 ( k) Cruel treatment to birds and creatures and killing animals.
 ( l) Transporting and parking vehicles inside the fair.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1661
 ( m) Poisonous, goods, fuel and explosives not permitted to sell to the Public, exhibiting and selling rotten 
flesh and fish.
 ( n) Disposal of bio-degradable and meat waste and garbage and other waste materials in the fair, 
 ( o) Conducting the fair after 10.00 p.m.
10.  All waste matter thrown away by persons engage in trading within the premises of the fair, shall be dumped 
on to any specific place for easy collection and no person shall heap the waste here and there, making the fair 
unclean.
11.  It shall be lawful for the Chairman or for any authorized officer to enter the fair premises at any time to inspect 
the activities, whether action is taken according to provisions of the By-laws in this part and anybody shall not 
be prevented or obstructed such process.
12.  No person shall enter in to the fair premises for trading purpose, unless 12 hours period prior to the 
commencement of the fair.
13.  No damages shall be made to the properties and fittings in the premises of the fair.
14.  Contravention of any one of these By-Laws shall be an offence, and when convicted in a court of  law having 
jurisdiction, the fine imposable and when such contravention is committed  continously and when convicted, 
or in the case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by an officer 
authorized  by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the additional maximum fine imposable for each 
day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined under Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987.
15.  Unless the context otherwise requires in these by-laws :
 "Council" means the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha
 "Chairman" mean the Chairman of the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
11-673/4
––––––––––––––––––––
By LAWS of PASBAGe korALe PrADeShIyA SABhA reLAtInG to SALe of fISh
 01. These by Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 126 (ix) 
(i)  of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
 02. These by-Laws are enforced for the purpose of regulating, controlling and charging on the issue of licence on 
sale of fish within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
 03. These by-laws are cited as the By-Law relating to sale of fish  within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
 04. No person shall use any place for selling fish within the authority areas, whatsoever unless he is in possession of 
a licence issued for such purpose by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
 05. Every applicant who apply for a licence to maintain a fish stall, shall forward an application obtainable from the 
Council which conform to this by-Laws and the charges for it shall determined by the Council by time to time.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1662
 06. No person shall be issued a license for a fish stall, selling fish under these By-Laws by the chairman, unless the 
place selling fish conform  to following conditions.
 ( a) The construction of the building shall comply with the plan approved by the Chairman.
 ( b) Area set apart for sale of fish be paved with cement and ceremic tiles or be covered with anticorrosive 
metallic sheets or using such material.'
 ( c) Floor used for exhibiting fish kept for sale and the floor used for storing fish shall be paved with cement or 
be finished with ceramic tiles.
 ( d) Drains meant for easy flow of waste water shall be built systematically paved with cement or be finished 
with ceramic tiles.
 ( e) Sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining through the drains referred 
to in paragraph (c) flowing to any public force of water and action shall be taken to drain off such waste 
water to a suction pit.
 ( f) The suction pit put in place to flow waste shall not be opened to the air.
 ( g) Sufficient containers shall be made available to hold the bio-degradable waste at the fish market and action 
shall be taken to ground such waste materials at least 0.5 meters deep in the ground or dispose such waste 
at the end of the day's sales, in accordance with provisions decided upon by the Council from time to time.
 ( h) Sufficient water sealed lavatory facilities shall be provided for the use of the persons working in the 
premises and suiatable sanitary methods and materials to be made use of after the use of the lavatory shall 
be supplied.
 07.  At the end of the daily sales, action shall be taken to wash and clean with disinfectant fluid the floor, the tiled or 
cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut fish, other untensils and the places exhibiting the fish for sale in any 
licensed fish stall.
 08. Every licensed fish stall shall keep every of the stall, its surrounding and drains around it, and all utensils 
and equipment used for storing and sale of fish, well epaired and in good condition and have the place free of 
unwholescome smell and effluvia.
 09.  The remaining unsold fish at the end of daily sales in a licensed fish stall, shall be sold or exhibited for sale or 
kept in the deep freezer, unless stored in a deep freezer and the freezer containing such fish is in continouse good 
working condition untill the stall opening time of next day.
 10.  Every license holder shall keep his fish stall free from dogs, cats, rats and any other insects.
 11.  No articles, goods, clothes or mats  used for sleeping shall be kept in the fish stall except the equipments and 
articles used for sale of fish.
 12. In a licensed place,
 ( a) No person suffering from contagious diseases or skin diseases or had contacted such a disease in the recent 
past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering  from such a disease or in the incubating 
period of such a disease shall enter, engage himself or employ in any form of sale or transporting fish or an 
assistant of any person engage in sale in a fish stall.
 ( b) Unless persons dressed in washed and clean clothes, no person shall engage himself  or employ anybody 
else in any form of sale of fish.
 ( c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the fish stall to a medical test at least 
once a year.

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1663
 13.  It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and 
to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they are on duty at the fish stall.
 14. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or soap fluid for the use of all persons employed at the licensed 
premises.
 15. It shall be lawful for the chariman or the officer authorized by him to buy a sample of any  kind of fish kept for 
sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any fish stall, no licensee shall desist or prevent such 
purchase.
 16. Unless all waste materials produced at the licensed premises are recycled, such waste materials shall,
 (i) Bio -degradable waste
 (ii) Paper or paper based materials
 (iii) polythene and plastics or materials based on polythene and plastics
  And it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks put in place 
for that purpose.
 ( b)  Unless the waste put in containers or tanks having been categorized in the manner set out in paragraph 
(a) above is disposed under the programme of waste management, launched by the Pradeshiya 
Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.
 17.  The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the by Laws in this part by the Chairman or the officer 
authorized by him, shall mean any occasion fish sales are done at the fish stall.
 18.  Whenever at an inspection, if it is detected that a licensed place or premises is not being maintained according 
to the provisions stipulated in the Section 6 of this By Laws or any by laws adopted, the Chairman has the 
power to inform the licence holder in writing to take necessary action to regularize such premises conforming to 
provisions of these by Laws within a specified period of time.
 19.  Any licence holder in receipt of a notice mentioned in the Section 18 of this by Laws shall act in the manner 
prescribed in the notice before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been 
forwarded in writing, the Chairman shall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice. however, 
the period of extension shall not be more than fourteen days.
 20.  When any licence holder in receipt of a notice mentioned in By law Section 18, fails to act in accordance with 
the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended, it shall be lawful for 
the Chairman to cancel the licence issued to that premises.
 21. Contravening of any one of aforesaid by laws shall be an offence and when convicted in a court of law having 
jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously, and when 
convicted, or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by an 
officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine imposable for 
each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined  in sub Section (2) of section 122 of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. 
 22. For the purpose of these by laws unless the context otherwise require.
  "Council" means the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
  "Pradeshiya Sabha Authority Area" means Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas of Pasbage Korale.
11-673/5

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1664
By LAWS of P ASBAGe korALe PrADeShIy A SABhA for LeVyInG chArGeS on Ser VIceS
01.  These By Laws are framed upon authority vested to this Pradeshiya Sabha under Provisions of Section 126 (xiv) 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
02.  These By Laws are enforced for regulating services provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha and levying charges on 
such services.
03.  These By laws are cited as the By Laws Levying Charges on the Services of Pradeshiya Sabha. 
04.  Services mean under  mentioned matters related to this by Laws :
 1. Issue of Application Forms include the following matters.
 (i) Application for admission to the Pre - Schools maintained by the Council,
 (ii) Application for obtaining Membership to the libraries maintained by the Council,
 (iii) Application for Abstracts from the Assessment Tax Register,
 (iv) Application for Registration of Suppliers.
 (v)  Application for obtaining Street Line Certificates,
 (vi) Application for obtaining Non Vesting Certificate,
 (vii) Application for Training Course of ‘e- Nana Piyasa ’,
 (viii) Application for obtaining services from the Council owned machineries as such gulley bowser, tractor, 
motor grader, backhoe loader and JCB.
 2. Issue of Certificate includes the following matters
 (i)  Street Line Certificates
 (ii) Non Vesting Certificates
 (iii) Ownership Certificates based on Assessment Tax Register
 (iv) Certification of Abstracts from the  Assessment Tax Registers.
 (v) Certification of Issued Assessment Notices.
 3. Renting gulley bowser, tractor, backhoe loader, motor grader, JCB machine and water bowser.
05. For the purpose of aforesaid Section 04, related to the services detailed, shall levy a fee determined by Resolutions, 
passed by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
06. (i)  An instruction relating to the filling of application form shall be included along with every application issued 
under sub section (1) of Section 4 of this by Laws.
 (ii)  Issue of application form shall be made on production of a receipt obtained after paying respective charges 
resolved and determined under Section 5 of this by Laws, on every application form issued.
07. (i)  Every person who wants to obtain any service mentioned in the sub Section (i) of Section 4 of this by Laws, 
shall forward the respective application fulfilling the prescribed requirements to the Chairman or the officer 
authorized by him.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1665
 (ii)  Incomplete or the applications not fulfilled the prescribed requirements shall be rejected and the applications 
duly filled with prescribed requirements, when obtaining services mentioned in the Sub-section (2) of Section 
4 above, the Chairman or the officer authorized by him, shall provide the proposed service within three days.
08. Any body expecting to obtain services prescribed in the Sub-section (3) of Section 4 of this By-laws, shall 
forward an application obtained in accordance with Sub-section (1) of Section 4 of this By-laws. 
09. An authorized person by the Chairman shall maintain a register on each category of service relating the proposed 
date of service, on receipt order of applications under Section 08 of this By-laws.
10. In addition to the charges on proposed service under Sub-section (3) of Section 04 of this By-laws, it is lawful to 
determine a deposit amount payable to the Council, under Section 5 of above. 
11. It is lawful to provide services if the applicant agree with the possibility available to provide service, in accordance 
to the priority under Section 8 above and after payment of charges determined under Section 5 of this By-laws, 
in addition to the deposit amount determined under Section 10.
12. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires :
 "Council" means the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha,
 "Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha,
 "The Authorized Officer" means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha 
to execute prescribed services. 
11–673/6
–––––––––––––––––––––
By LAWS reLA tInG to SLAuGhter houSeS of P ASBAGe korALe PrADeShIy A SABhA
01. The Pradeshiya Sabha has vested power to comply these By Laws under Sub Section 126 (xi) (i) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
02. This By Law are enforced for the purpose of regulating, supervising, inspecting and controlling and for levying fees 
from slaughter houses situated within the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
03. These By Laws shall be cited at the By Laws in respect of regulating, Supervising, inspecting and fee levying from 
the slaughter houses situated within the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
04. Every slaughter houses shall be in charge of an officer known as the slaughter house keeper.
05. No licensed butcher shall be allowed to slaughter animals except at such times as may be determined and fixed from 
time to time by competent authority.
06. A licensed butcher shall slaughter animals only at such places within the slaughter house as assigned to him by the 
slaughter house keeper.
07. No animal shall be slaughtered unless there is a permit issued in the printed form for slaughter of such animal, after 
inspection by the Divisional health Medical Officer or by an officer authorized by him.
08. A certificate issued under By Law No. 07 shall be valid only for 07 days from the date of issue of such certificate.

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1666
09. A slaughter house keeper shall have in his possession documents to prove the former ownership in respect of 
every animal to be slaughtered including the description of animal and detail information regarding its previous 
ownership and shall maintain and have in his custody a register giving all other information prepared according to 
specific form approved by the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
10. No person shall be permitted to admit into a slaughter house any animal if he fails to produce under mentioned 
documents of confirmation to the slaughter house keeper prior to such admission.
•	 Identity certificate.
•	 Competence certificate
•	 Permit
11. All animals brought and kept at a slaughter house shall be properly tied up with ropes in the compound to prevent 
their escape or shall be arranged any other safety measures.
12. Every licensed butcher shall by himself register in the office of the pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha and the 
names of the servants whom he desires to employ at the slaughter house in his trade as butcher and the Chairman 
or an Officer authorized by him may refuse to register any particular name of a person or cancel the name of any 
person already registered. Such licensed butcher shall not employ or continue to employ any person who is not so 
registered or whose name has been so cancelled.
13. Every licensed butcher shall keep with the slaughter house keeper a certified copy of his license and also certified 
copies of registration certificates of every servant whom he employs at the slaughter house as soon he shall have 
obtained them.
14. The skins, bowels and offal of animals slaughtered shall be collected by the butcher or by his employees and be 
kept in places set apart for the purpose in order to be washed and cleaned before removal.
15. The licensed butcher shall be responsible for any damage caused to the slaughter house, either by him or by an 
act of his servants, when the said licensed butcher or his registered servants using the slaughter house and shall 
be liable on demand to pay such costs for the damage done so and in failure of which the Chairman shall have the 
option of either cancelling his license or of recovering the amount of such damage from the licensed butcher and 
his sureties or both.
16. No person suffering from any skin disease, leprosy or any infections or contiguous disease shall be permitted to 
enter into a slaughter house.
17. Fees to be charged in respect of each animal shall be prescribed from time to time by the Council by resolution in 
respect of following purposes:-
  (1) For the use of the slaughter house for:
   ( a) Cattle
   ( b) Pigs and goats
  (2) For feeding the cattle (for each period of twenty four hours or any part thereof)
   ( a) Cattle
   ( b) Pigs and goats
  (3) For occupation of shed:
   ( a) Cattle 
   ( b) Pigs and goats
18. The Chairman may cause, any animal which has been retained at the slaughter house for default of payment of fees 
due on it, to be sold by public auction after giving two days prior notice by publicity; and shall out of the proceeds 
of the sale, retain any fees due on the animal and expenses incurred in respect of such action and pay if any surplus 
amount of money left, on application, to the person who has brought such animal for slaughter to the slaughter 

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1667
house. It such person does not claim the amount before expiry of one year the sum shall be credited to the Council 
Fund.
19. It shall be lawful for the slaughter house keeper or the Divisional Medical Officer of health to prohibit the slaughter 
of any animal affected by disease or on any other reason or such animal found to be not suitable to slaughter for 
human food, whether a permit to slaughter has been already issued or not and no person shall slaughter any such 
animal.
20. Whenever any person who has brought to the slaughter house any animal for slaughter and for which the issue of 
a permit has been refused or the slaughter of which has been prohibited, fail to remove it from the slaughter house 
premises within twelve hours, after such refusal or prohibition, further action shall be taken as provided under by 
law No. 18 herein.
21. No person shall remove any meat, skin, bowels and offal of any animal slaughtered in the public slaughter house 
unless such person is in possession of a permit, prepared  on the form approved by the Council, and signed by 
an authorized officer appointed for the purpose of issuing such permit and any person removing such meat, skin, 
bowels and offal shall produce the permit for inspection when demanded by an officer of the Pasbage Korale 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
22. No dogs shall be admitted into the slaughter and as owner or person in charge of a dog shall not bring such dog into 
it or allow it to enter any slaughter house. All dogs found inside a slaughter house shall be dealt with as stray dogs.
23. No licensed butcher or any of his registered servants or any other person admitted into inside of a slaughter shall 
make any noice or fight or quarrel or use insulting and abusive language.
24. It shall not be lawful for any person who is not a licensed  butcher, to slaughter any animal within the limits of the 
slaughter house, unless he shall have obtained a special license from the competent authority and any person who 
obtains such a special license shall not slaughter except at the place named in such license or under any condition 
set for therein. The application for such special license shall contain information in respect of the animal similar 
to the particulars contained in the Form "a" shown in the Schedule to the Branding, Sale and Transfer of Cattle 
Ordinance (Chapter 473) and shall be accompanied by a report from a Police Officer of the area or an officer of the 
Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha or from the Grama Niladari in proof of the ownership of such animal. For this 
special license a fee not exceeding two hundred and fifty Rupees (Rs. 250) or an amount prescribed by the Council 
shall be payable.
25. Every slaughter house shall be thoroughly washed and swept at least twice a day and maintained well by the 
slaughter house keeper which is a duty of him.
26. Where an animal which has been approved for slaughter as aforesaid found to be affected by any disease when 
slaughtered and the carcass appear to be unfit for human food, the Chairman or an officer authorized by him shall 
cause such carcass to be disposed of preventing it being used for human food. In this connection the decision taken 
by the veterinary surgeon or the Medical Officer of health shall be final and has no rights to claim compensation 
for doing so.
27. No person other than the butchers, their assistants and officers of the Council attach to the slaughter house or any 
others authorized shall be admitted to the slaughter house premises during the process of slaughtering, skinning or 
cutting up carcases.
28. All the offal or other refuse left at the slaughter house by the butchers or by their assistants shall be disposed of as 
common offal.
29. No person shall bring or allow to be brought meat of animal from the slaughter house to any place unless such meat 
is transported without exposing to sunlight, dust and rain and public view.

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1668
30. Slaughterig animals within the slaughter house shall be conducted in a covered area without viewing other animals 
inside the slaughter house.
31. Contravening of any one of aforesaid by laws shall be an offence and when convicted in a court of law having 
jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously, and when 
convicted, or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by an 
officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine imposable for 
each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined in sub Section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
32. For the purpose of these By Laws unless the context other wise requires;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Sabha/Council" means the Pasbage Korale Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Authorized Officer" means the officer authorized by the Chairman
"Competent Authority" means the Chairman or an Officer authorized by him.
"Slaughter house Keeper" means person appointed to be in charge of a slaughter house or the person who keep 
the slaughter house.  
"Offal" means flesh not suitable for human consumption.
"Animals" mean the interpretation referred in the Butchers" Ordinance.
11-673/7
PrADeShIy A   SABhA   Putt ALAm 
revenue and expenditure returns Declaration of financial Statements
by  virtue of powers vested in me under Sub- Section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read 
with Section 3 of Local  Government Authorities (Standard by laws) No. 06 of 1952, Jayasinghe Arachchige Somasiri 
Jayasinghe the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby notify that I have decided to declare the Financial 
Statements for the year ended on 31.12.2016, under resolution No. A-93 dated 25.10.2017.
 J. a
. soMasiri Jayasingha,
 Secretary and Implementing Officer of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam,
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested under Sub Section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and 
provisions No. 216 of Pradeshiya Sabha Rules (Finance and administration) of 1988, I hereby decide to declare the audited 
Financial Operational Statement for the year ended on 31.12.2016, Statement of Financial Status for the year ended on 
31.12.2016 and cash flow statement for the year ended on 31.12.2016 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam set out in the 
following Schedule for public notice.
Schedule I - Financial Operational Statement for the year ended as at 31.12.2016
Schedule II - Statement of Financial Status for the year ended on 31.12.2016
Schedule III - Cash flow statement for the year ended on 31.12.2016
revenue & expenditure returns

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1669
Schedule I
f inancial  o Perational  s tateMent  for  the  year  e nded  as  at  31.12.2016
  31.12.2016 31.12.2015
 operational Income Rs.cts Rs. cts.
Government Contribution 38,112,140.76 35,939,928.10
Recurrent Income 45.013,642.74 36,293,479.99
total operational Income 83,125,783.50 72,.233,408.09
Operational Expenditure :
Recurrent expenditure 58,679,150.78 60,656,998.12
total operational expenditure 58,679,150.78 60,656,998.12
Operational surplus 24,446,632.72 11,576,409.97
Capital Receipts 64,039,312.89 13,341,742.26
Capital Expenditure 69,925,332.27 16,236,932.28
Surplus for the year 18,560,613.34 8,681,219.95
 
Accounts policies related to this financial statement and notes are separately specified.
Schedule II
s tateMent  of  f inancial  s tatus  for  the  year  e nded  on  31 d eceMBer  2016
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam 
 31.12.2016 31.12.2015
 Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Assests :
Non Current Assets
Property Plant and Equipment 120,685,894.24 129,090,850.22
Current Assets
Stock 828,499.51 557,615.57
Employees Loan andAdvance 4,480,283.76 3,881,500.14
Income debtors 95,435,484.62 56,061,709.34
Investments 510,315.41 450,161.83
Finance and things equal to finance 3,112,957.21 1,789,711.69
total  Assets 225,053,434.75 191,831,548.79
Liability :
Non Current Liability 26,091,213.51 26,263,222.40
Current Liability 48,809,911.40 36,492,937.05
Contributors Fund and Capitals to the income 150,152,309.84 129,075,389.34
total equity and Liabilities 225,053,434.75 191,831,548.79
Accounts policies related to this financial statement and notes are separately specified
This financial statement has unqualified Audit opinion.

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1670
stateMent of cash floW  for the year  ended on 31 st deceMBer  2016
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam
 31.12.2016 31.12.2015
Cash flow generated from operational activities Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Surplus received from general operations 24,446,632.72 11,576,409.97
Compatibility for none - financial changers
Depletion/cut off/Gratuity Payments – –
Prior  year adjustment 10,921.1263.14 (3,237,574.32
operational surplus before working capital changers 35,367,895.86 8,338,862.65
Working Capital movements Stocks/Debtors/due receipts/ (40,243,442.84) (14,968,859.74)
Creditors/due payments 12,316,974.35 (491,707.55)
Net cash flow generated from Operational activities 7,441,427.37 (7,121,704.64)
Cash flow from investing Activities
Investment For Fixed Deposit –   4,500,000.00
Employee Deposit (60,153.58) (79,676.57)
Capital expenditure 69,925,332.27 16,236,932.28
Net Cash flow generated from investment activities (69,985,485.85) (11,816,608.85)
Cash flow from Financing Activities
Capital Receipts 64,039,312.89 13,341,742.26
Inland Loan Development Fund 172,008.89 (6,452,717.27)
Net Cash flow from Financing activities 63,867,304.40 19,794,459.53
Net Cash flow generated during the year 1,323,245.52 856,146.04
Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,789,711.69 933,565.65
Cash and Cash Equivalent and the end of the year (Note 1) 3,112,957.21 1,789,711.69
finance and things equal to finance as at 2016.12.31
(notes 01)
Current Accont of the Bank of Ceylon (5123134) 1,378,172.87 740,111.93
Current Account of the Bank of Ceylon (5123301) 159,102.53 172,026.09
Current Account of the Bank of Ceylon (70677670) 603,590.95 154,910.82
Current Account of the People's Bank (8560) 42,055.20 42,055.20
Savings Account of the Bank Ceylon 701,163.90 673,642.65
Current Account of the Bank of Ceylon (0077180765) 219,926.76 4,250.00
Stamps      8.945.00 2,715.00
 3,112,957.21 1,789,711.69
11-763

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1671
miscellaneous notices
yA tInuWArA   PrADeShIy A  SABhA 
three Wheelers Parking charges for the y ear 2018
b y virtue of the power vested in me under Section 122(1) 
read with Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Act, No. 15 
of 1987 I, W. A. L. Tushari Jayaratne, being the Secretary 
and the Implementing Officer of the Duties and Authorities 
of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, have decided to impose 
and levy an annual Three Wheelers parking charges for the 
Year 2018 in the under mentioned method. 
By virtue of the power vested on the Yatinuwara 
Pradeshiya Sabha, provisions under Section 122(I), read with 
Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and 
Schedule complied by the Minister of Local Government 
and published in the Gazette No. 1772/36, dated 23.08.2012, 
I do hereby decide that the charges should be levied on Three 
Wheelers parked in the parking places mentioned in the 
Schedule below for the Year 2018. 
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and the 
 Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
RESOLUTION No. 1045
   
 01.  30 Meters in the Right side of the Peradeniya Getambe 
Road (hector Kobbekaduwa Road) in Peradeniya 
town. 
 02.  20 Meters in the Left side, commencing the Kenhinda 
Road in Peradeniya Road. 
 03.  12 Meters from the ‘Tea Shakthi’ office building, 
located between the culvert pillars 1/4 and 1/5 in 
Gorakadeniya Junction in Peradeniya - Getambe Road 
(hector Kobbekaduwa Road). 
 04.  10 Meters from the Right side of the culvert pillar 
No. 3/2 in Peradeniya - Getambe Road (hector 
Kobbekaduwa Road). 
 05.  30 Meters Left side of the Soya junction culvert 
pillar No. 2/6, in Peradeniya - Getambe Road (hector 
Kobbekaduwa Road). 
 06.  20 Meters in the Right side of the Peradeniya Road 
(hector Kobbekaduwa Road), opposite to the 
hadabima Authority towards Goahgoda - Katugastota 
road. 
 07.  20 Meters from the start of Right side, towards 
Pragathi Mawatha in Pahala Eriyagama Junction. 
 08.  20 Meters from the Left side of the start of 25 meter 
distance towards Aladeniya Road in Polgahamula 
junction. 
 09.  20 Meters from the start of 100 meter distance towards 
Eadanduwawa Junction in Polgahamula. 
 10.  10 Meters from the start of the road towards Kehelwala 
Pansala in Kehelwela Junction. 
 11. 20 Meters Left side of the road towards Owala, in 
Kiribathkumbura - Owala Junction. 
 12. 20 Meters from the Left side start in Wathurakumbura 
Road in Kiribathkumbura town. 
 13.  17 Meters towards Muruthalawa in front of the 
Left side of Multi Activity hall, in Gannoruwa- 
Muruthalawa Road. 
 14.  12 meters from the Right side start towards 
Pushparama Pansala Mawatha, adjoining narrow 
bridge in Gannoruwa - Muruthalawa Road. 
 15. 25 Meters from the Right side towards Polgahamula in 
four junction in Muruthalawa town. 
 16. 20 Meters from the Left side towards Aladeniya, 
adjoining Rural Bank in Muruthalawa town. 
 17. 10 Meters from the Right side towards Muruthalawa 
town, in Kambi-adiya junction. 
 18.  20 Meters from the Left side towards Aladeniya, 
opposite to the mosque, in Yahalatenna junction. 
 19. 20 Meters from the Right side, starting Illukwatta 
junction towards Polgahamula in Polgahamula - 
Aladeniya Road. 
 20.  15 Meters from the Right side, starting from the 
Pilapitiya Bodhiya in Polgahamula- Aladeniya Road. 
 21.  10 Meters towards Polgahamula, starting from the 
opposite to the 5th Mile Post junction in Polgahamula 
- Aladeniya Road. 
 22.  10 Meters from the start towards Girakanga junction 
in Bulumulla in Kiribathkumbura - Wathurakumbura 
road. 
 23. 10 Meters from the start towards Suriyagoda, 
from the Left side start of Suriyagoda Junction in 
Kiribathkumbura - Wathurakumbura Junction. 

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1672
 24. 10 Meters towards Wathurakumbura, Left side of 
Moladanda Junction bus halt in Kiribathkumbura - 
Wathurakumbura Road. 
 25. 10 Meters towards Kiribathkumbura, Left side 
from Idampitiya Junction in Kiribathkumbura  
Wathurakumbura Road. 
 26. 20 Meters towards Pepolanga, Left side from the start 
of Diyapalagoda Junction. 
 27. 20 Meters towards Wathurakumbura, Right side from 
the start of Godamuduna Junction. 
 28. Junction adjoining Wathurakumbura school Road. 
 29. 10 Meters towards Wevatenna, starting from the Right 
side of Godamuduna Junction. 
 30. 10 Meters towards Kahawatugoda, starting from the 
Right side of Kahawatugoda Junction. 
 31. 10 Meters from the Right side, starting towards 
Nagollagama, adjoining Giragama tea factory. 
 32. From the starting of the Left side of the Main Road, 
towards Pilimatalawa in Paraketawella Junction. 
 33. 15 Meters towards Pilimatalawa from the Right side, 
starting Siyambalagoda Junction. 
 34. 20 Meters from the Left side, turning Junction of 
Udawela Road in Danture town. 
 35. 8 Meters towards Left side of Dambagoda from the 
start of Dambagoda Junction. 
 36.  30 Meters towards Danture town, from the Left side 
start in Walgampaya Junction. 
 37. 30 Meters from the Left side start, towards 
Walgowwagoda, in Walgowwagoda Junction. 
 38. About 50 Meters, in the Main Road, Left side towards 
the way Poththapitiya in the Main Road in Rattepitiya 
Junction. 
 39. About 30 Meters towards the Left side of Aandiyatenna 
Road in Ketapitiya Junction. 
 40. About 20 Meters towards the Right side of 
Poththapitiya Main Road, opposite to the school in 
Menikdiwela Junction. 
 41. About 50 Meters towards the Left side of Pilimatalawa, 
opposite to the bus halt in Poththapitiya town. 
 42. About 15 Meters of the Road opposite to the 
Dodamwala Devala Maluwa. 
 43. About 20 Meters Right side of the Road towards the 
school in Pepolanga Junction. 
 44. About 10 Meters in the bus turning point, adjoining 
Udawela school. 
 45. 30 Meters from the Right side start of the Road towards 
Boyagama from Colombo - Kandy Main Road. 
 46. About 10 Meters except bus stand towards Devedharma 
Sasthralaya, in Colombo - Kandy Main Road. 
 47. 10 Meters Left side of heeressagala Road in Colombo 
- Kandy Main Road. 
 48. About 10 Meters near the Culvert No. 106/4 of the old 
Pradeshiya Sabha building in Colombo - Kandy Main 
road. 
 49. About 20 Meters starting in the opposite side of the 
Dehiyanga mosque. 
 50. About 20 Meters in the Road opposite to the bus halt 
in Dehiyanga town. 
 51. About 10 Meters except Kurunduwatta Road in the 
Main Road, adjoining Dambalanda Junction Buddha 
shrine. 
 52. About 20 Meters in the Road towards the mosque, in 
the turning Junction of Munwatugoda mosque. 
 53. About 30 Meters toward Kadugannawa in Balana 
Dekinda Junction. 
 54. About 12 Meters toward Pilimatalawa in the middle of 
Danture town. 
 55. About 30 Meters toward Pilimatalawa in Danture 
haliyadda. 
 56. About 30 Meters towards Balana from the Junction 
turning to Balana Road in Kadugannawa Poththapitiya 
Road (Adjoining 3rd Mile Post) Road.
 57. 15 Meters towards Poththapitiya adjoining 
Ketakumbura bridge. 
 58. Council owned halt adjoining Peradeniya bridge. 
 59.  Opposite to the hela Bojunhala halt, belongs 
to Department of Agriculture (Parking once a 
threewheeler only).
Annual License Fee for a three wheeler shall be Rs. 600. 
11–676/17
–––––––––––––––
y AtInuWArA    PrADeShIy A  SABhA 
charging Water Bills for the y ear 2018
by virtue of power vested in me under Section 122(I), read 
along with Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 
of 1987 I, W. A. L. Tushari Jayaratne, being the Secretary 
and the Implementing Officer of the Duties and Authorities 

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1673
of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, I have decided to impose 
and levy an annual charging Water Bills for the Year 2018 in 
the under mentioned method. 
In terms of Section 122(1) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, read along with Section 9.3 of the said 
Act.  I do hereby decide that the water charges should be 
as mentioned in the following Schedule for the Year 2018, 
under the provision of No. 34 of the By-laws, complied by 
the Minister of Local Government, published in the Gazette 
Numbered 520/7, date d 23.08.1988, adopted by the article 
shall levied in the  Yahalatenne, Poththapitiya, Kotalegoda, 
Ihala Kobbekaduwa, Walgampaya and Aandiyatenna water 
scheme within the jurisdiction of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya 
Sabha.  
 
W. a. l. tushari J ayaratne ,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and the 
 Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
RESOLUTION No. 1042
YAhALATENNE WATER SUPPLY SChEME 
 Domestic Commercial
 Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
From 01 to 05 units 10 0 15 0
From 06 to 10 units 13 0 18 0
From 11 to 25 units 40 0 60 0
Above 26 units 80 0 100 0
In addition to the charges monthly service charges Rs. 100
POThThAPITIYA WATER SUPPLY SChEME 
 Domestic Commercial
 Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
From 01 to 10 units 8 0 10 0
From 11 to 15 units 9 0 11 0
From 16 to 20 units 15 0 17 0
Per unit exceeding 21 units 20 0 22 0
In addition to the charges monthly service charges Rs. 100.
KOTALIGODA WATER SUPPLY SChEME 
 Domestic Commercial
 Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
From 01 to 10 units 8 0 10 0
From 11 to 15 units 9 0 11 0
From 16 to 20 units 15 0 17 0
Per unit exceeding 21 units 20 0 22 0
In addition to the charges monthly service charges Rs. 100.
IhALA  KOBBEKADUWA WATER SUPPLY SChEME 
 Domestic  
 Rs. cts.   
From 01 to 05 units 30 0  
From 06 to 10 units 35 0  
From11 to 25 units 40 0  
Per unit exceeding 26 units 50 0  
In addition to the charges monthly service charges Rs. 100.
WALGAMPAYA WATER SUPPLY SChEME 
 Domestic  
 Rs. cts.    
From 01 to 05 units 30 0  
From 06 to 10 units 35 0  
From 11 to 25 units 40 0  
per unit to exceeding 26 units 50 0  
In addition to the charges monthly service charges Rs. 100.
AANDIYATENNE WATER SUPPLY SChEME 
 Domestic  
 Rs. cts.    
From 01 to 05 units 30 0  
From 06 to 10 units 35 0  
From 11 to 25 units 40 0  
per unit to exceeding 26 units 50 0  
In addition to the charges monthly service charges Rs. 100.
   
Rs. cts.
 (i) Application fee for a water supply connection 300 00
 (ii) hiring water bowser 3,500 00
 (iii) Re-instatement charges for disconnected   800 00
    water supply
 (iv) Deposit amount for a water supply 2,000 00

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1674
ROAD  DAMAGING  ChARGES  FOR 
LAYING  PIPE  LINES - 2018
 (i) Fixed rates for damaging the roads for laying water 
supply lines - Rs. 750
 (ii) Deposit amount on damaging a gravel road for per 
square foot Rs. 95. 
 (iii) Deposit amount on damaging a tarred or concrete road 
for per square foot Rs. 150.
 (iv) The deposit amount will be refunded on the reception 
of Technical Officer's report after remake of damaged 
roads back to normal. 
11–676/14
–––––––––––––––––––
y AtInuWArA    PrADeShIy A  SABhA 
Imposing tax on undeveloped Land for the y ear 2018
by virtue of the power vested in me the Pradeshiya Sabha, 
provisions under Section 153 read along with Section 9.3 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987  I,  W. A. L. 
Tushari Jayaratne, being the Secretary and the Implementing 
Officer of the Duties and Authorities of Yatinuwara 
Pradeshiya Sabha, have decided to impose and levy a tax on 
undeveloped land  for the year 2018 at the rate of 1% of the 
capital value of such lands.
 
W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and the 
 Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution No. 1038.
11–676/10
–––––––––––––––––––
yA tInuWArA   PrADeShIy A  SABhA 
Imposition taxes for Vehicles and Animals - 2018
by virtue of power vested in me under Sections 147 and 148 
read with Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 
of 1987  I,  W. A. L. Tushari Jayaratne, being the Secretary 
and the Implementing Officer of the Duties and Authorities 
of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, have decided to impose 
and levy an annual tax for Vehicles and Animals within the 
authority areas of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha for the year 
2018 in the under mentioned method.   
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and the 
 Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
RESOLUTION No. 1034.
schedule
  Rs. cts. 
1. For every Vehicle except Motor Vehicle,  25   0
 Motor car, motor lorry, motor Bicycle, 
 Cart, Jinrikshaw, bicycle or Tricycle 
2. For every tricycle, bicycle, car, bicycle 
  car or a hand car –
  (i) If use for commercial purpose 18   0
  (ii) If use for purpose which is not  4   0
   commercial
3. For every cart 20   0
4. For every hand cart 10   0
5. For every rickshaw 7 50
6. For every horse, phony or mule 15   0
7. For every tusker   50   0
Children Vehicles with 26 inches diameter wheels, wheel 
barrows, hand carts utilized only for individual business 
purposes and hand carts not utilized for business purposes 
are excempted from the above tax. 
In this Schedule, commercial purpose means including 
transportation or some other means of certain goods for 
business or industries or written or printed materials for 
trading purposes. 
11–676/6

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1675
yA tInuWArA   PrADeShIy A   SABhA  
charging Library fees - 2018
by virtue of power vested in me under Section 9.3 of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I,  W. A. L. Tushari 
Jayaratne, being the Secretary and the Implementing Officer 
of the Duties and Authorities of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya 
Sabha, have decided to impose and levy an annual charges 
of for the year 2018 in the under mentioned method.   
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution No. 1044
 Rs. cts. 
Service Charges  50 0 
Deposit Account  50 0
Form Charges  20 0
Surcharges for one book per day  1 0
11–676/16
––––––––––––––––––
yA tInuWArA   PrADeShIy A   SABhA  
Levy of t ax on Advertisement and 
Banners for the year - 2018
by virtue of the power vested  under Section 122(1) of the 
Pradesiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read along with Section 
9.3 of the said Act, I,  W. A. L. Tushari Jayaratne, being the 
Secretary and the Implementing Officer of the Duties and 
Authorities of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, have decided 
to impose and levy an annual taxes on propaganda notices 
and banners for the year 2018 within the authority areas 
of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, in the under mentioned 
method.    
By virtue of power vested in me, under Section 122 (2) 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read along 
with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I do hereby decide to levy 
a charge on display of notices and advertisement exhibited 
within the jurisdiction of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, for 
the year 2017, under Local Authorities (Standard By Laws) 
By-laws Act, No. 06 of 1952, subsequent to the publication 
of such by laws by the hon. Minister of Local Government, 
housing and Construction in the Extra Ordinary Gazette 
No. 520/7, dated 23.08.1988. 
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution No. 1035
SChEDULE
Rs. cts. 
01. For one square feet of permanent advertisement  75 0
 for a calendar year 
02. For one square feet of temporary advertisement  20 0
 for six months 
03. For a square feet of temporary advertisement for  15 0
 three months 
11–676/7
––––––––––––––––
yA tInuWArA    PrADeShIy A   SABhA  
other Payable charges for the year 2018
by virtue of power vested in me under Section 9.3 of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I,  W. A. L. Thushari 
Jayaratne, being the Secretary and the Implementing Officer 
of the Duties and Authorities of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya 
Sabha, have decided to impose and levy other payable 
charges for the year 2018 in the under mentioned method.    
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution No. 1040.

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1676
   Application form Charges Rs. cts. 
01. Building Application Form charges 500  0
02. Land plotting form charges 500  0
03. Conformity certificate form charges 200  0
04. Registration fee for Architects 3,000  0
05. Street line and non-vesting form charges 500  0
06. Removal of dangerous trees form charges 500  0
07. Bicycle licence application form charges 6  0
08. Business licence/Industrial tax form charges 20  0
11–676/12
–––––––––––––––––
yAtInuWArA   PrADeShIyA  SABhA 
environment Protection Licence fees - 2018
by virtue of power vested in me under Section 9.3 of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I,  W. A. L. Tushari 
Jayaratne, being the Secretary and the Implementing Officer 
of the Duties and Authorities of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya 
Sabha, have decided to impose and levy an annual 
environment protection licence fees for the year 2018 in the 
under mentioned method, by virtue of power vested under 
Section 26 of the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980, 
amended by Acts, No. 56 of 1988 and No. 53 of 2000. 
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution  No. 1036
Issue of Environment Licence on 25 industries mentioned 
herein, published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1533/16, 
dated 25th day of January, 2008. 
 01. All fuel filling stations ( liquid petroleum gas) 
 02. Candle industry with the manpower strength more than 
10 workers. 
 03. Coconut oil brewing factory with the manpower more 
than 10 but less than 25 workers. 
 04. Non alcoholic drink making venture with the manpower 
more than 10 but less than 25 workers.
 05. Rice mill with dry activities 
 06. Grinding mill with the capacity of 1,000 kg. monthly 
production. 
 07. Tobacco drying industry 
 08. Sulphate smoked cinnamon industry with the capacity 
of 500 kg. or more at once 
 09. Processing and packing edible salt industry 
 10. All tea factories other than instant tea production 
 11. Concrete pre caste productions 
 12. Mechanized cement blocks making industry 
 13. Lime kiln with less than 20 metric ton production 
capacity daily. 
 14. Plaster of Paris or ceramic industry with a work force 
less than 25.
 15. Grinding all sea shells 
 16. Tile and brick making 
 17. Mining once a bore using less manpower and explosives 
producing 600 cubic meter 
 18. Saw mill producing less than 50 cubic meter per day or 
wood pressing using chemicals or wood processing 
 19. Mechanized woodworking or wood allied industry 
with 05 to 25 manpower. 
 20. hotel, guest house or rest house more than 05 rooms 
and less than 25 rooms 
 21. Motor garage other than repairing, maintaining and 
fitting motor air conditioners, spray painting 
 22. Repairing, maintaining and fixing place of refrigerators 
air conditioners. 
 23.  Container yard not servicing motor vehicles. 
 24. Repairing place of electrical equipments with a 
manpower over 10 workers. 
 25. Maintaining a printing press or letter press not using 
melted zinc. 
 Application form charges Rs. cts. 
1. Environmental Protection Licence  100 0 
 Application form
2. Renewal application form charge of  50 0
 Environmental  Protection Licence   
3. Licence charges for Environmental Protection  4,000 0
 Licence valid for three years  
Inspecting charges of Industries : 
The following maximum field inspection charges, based 
on the initial capital investment shall be assessed and 
charged. 

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1677
 Investment  Inspection Charges (maximum) 
  Rs. cts.  
1. Less 250,000  1,000 0
2. 250,001 - 500,000  3,000 0
3. 500,001- 1,000,000  5,000 0
4. Over 1,000,000  10,000 0
11–676/8
––––––––––––––––
yAtInuWArA   PrADeShIyA   SABhA 
crematorium charges for the year - 2018
by virtue of power vested in me , provisions under Section 2 
read along with Section Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 15 of 1987 I,  W. A. L. Thushari Jayaratne, being 
the Secretary and the Implementing Officer of the Duties and 
Authorities of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, have decided 
to impose and levy crematorium charges for the year 2018 in 
the under-mentioned method.    
By virtue of power vested in Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha 
under Section 2, read with Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, complied by the Minister of 
Local Government (Standared By-laws) and published in 
the Gazette No. 1802/21, dated 22.03.2013, I have decided 
to levy crematorium charges for the year 2018. 
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution  No. 1041
Rs. cts.
 
1. Within the Administrative Limits of   7,000 0
 Yatinuwara  Pradeshiya Sabha 
 (for a dead body) 
2. Out of the Administrative Limits of    7,500 0
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha 
 (for a dead body) 
11–676/13
yAtInuWArA   PrADeShIyA  SABhA 
Imposition of taxes on Sale of certain Lands - 2018
by virtue of the power vested in me by the provisions under 
Section 154(1) read along with Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I,  W. A. L. Tushari Jayaratne, 
being the Secretary and the Implementing Officer of the 
Duties and Authorities of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, 
have decided to impose and levy a tax on sale of certain 
lands for the year 2018 where any land situated within the 
administrative limits of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha is sold 
by public auction or otherwise by an auctioneer or broker or 
his servant or agent, shall pay to the Yatinuwara Pradeshiya 
Sabha, from the proceeds of the sale of such land, a tax 
equivalent to one per centum (1%) of the amount of such 
proceeds. 
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution No. 1039.
11–676/11
––––––––––––––––––––––
yAtInuWArA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
Imposition of Acreage tax - 2018
by virtue of the power vested in me by the  provisions under 
Section 134 read along with Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I,  W. A. L. Tushari Jayaratne, 
being the Secretary and the Implementing Officer of the 
Duties and Authorities of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, 
have decided to impose and levy an annual acreage tax 
on lands located within the jurisdiction of Yatinuwara 
Pradeshiya Sabha, either permanently or regularly brought 
under cultivation Rs. 50.00 per hectare for the year 2018, 
and 
Furthermore,  under the provisions of Section 134 of the 
said Act, to impose and levy Rs. 50 an annual acreage tax for 
the year 2018, on per hectare of land exceeding one hectare 
and less than five hectares in extent, either permanently or 
regularly brought under cultivation, within the administrative 
areas declared as special area for acreage tax by the Minister 

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1678
of Local Government, which was pubished in the Gazette            
No. 544 dated 03.02.1989. 
 
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution No. 1029.
SChEDULE - I
The land situated within the administrative limits of 
Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha under permanent and regular 
cultivation. 
  Rs. cts.
 01. More than one hectare and less than five  50 0
  hectare in extent 
 02. Five every hectare exceeding five hectare  10 0
  or more in extent
 
11–676/1
––––––––––––––––––
yAtInuWArA   PrADeShIyA   SABhA 
charging Industrial Agreement fee - 2018
by virtue of the power vested in me by the provisions 
under Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 
1987 I, W. A. L. Tushari Jayaratne, being the Secretary and 
the Implementing Officer of the Duties and Authorities of 
Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, have decided to impose 
and levy an annual charges for the year 2018 in the under 
mentioned Schedule.  
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution No. 1043.
Rs. cts. 
1. Value of the Industry less than Rs. 50,000  250  0
2. Value of the Industry less than Rs. 100,000   500  0
3. Value of the Industry less than Rs. 300,000  750  0
4. Value of the Industry less than Rs. 500,000  1,000  0
5. Value of the Industry Rs. 1,000,000 and less  1,500  0
6. Value of the Industry over Rs. 1,000,000  2,000  0
7. Registration charges of suppliers 1,000  0
11–676/15
––––––––––––––––––
yAtInuWArA   PrADeShIyA  SABhA 
Imposing tax on Business and Professions  – 2018
by virtue of the power vested in me under Section 152(1) 
with the provisions, read along with Section 9.3 of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I,  W. A. L. Tushari 
Jayaratne, being the Secretary and the Implementing Officer 
of the Duties and Authorities of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya 
Sabha, have decided to impose and levy an annual tax 
on business and professions for the year 2018 in the 
undermentioned method.   
By virtue of power vested in the Yatinuwara Pradeshiya 
Sabha under Sub-section (1) of the Section 152 of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read along with Section 9.3 of 
the said Act, I do hereby decide to impose and levy a tax 
on business and professions based on the annual income 
mentioned in the Column II. Furthermore, those who are 
maintaining such business and professions within the 
jurisdiction of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha in the year 
2018, should pay the said tax, which are not required to 
pay under Section 150, when the income of the business or 
the profession has been within the limits mentioned in the 
Column I based on the year 2017 proceedings and levy on 
any one who is liable to pay the above tax for the year 2018. 
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution No. 1033.

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1679
SChEDULE  i
 Column I Column II
 Annual income in the year 2017 Annual Tax
  To be paid
  Rs. cts.
Up to Rs. 6,000 Nil
Exceeding Rs. 6,001 not exceeding Rs. 12,000 90  0
Exceeding Rs. 12,001 not exceeding Rs. 18,750 180  0
Exceeding Rs. 18,750 not exceeding Rs. 75,000 360  0
Exceeding Rs. 75,000 not exceeding Rs. 150,000 1,200  0
Above Rs. 150,000 3,000  0
Tax imposed on certain business enterprises : 
 01. Commission Agents 
 02. Auctioneers 
 03. Brokers 
 04. Money Lenders 
 05. Pawn Brokers
 06. Contractors 
 07. Suppliers
 08. Driving school trainers 
 09. Accountants and Auditors 
 10. Lotteries Agents 
 11. Insurance Agents 
 12. Motor vehicles/motor bicycles traders 
 13. Private Education Institutions
 14. Foreign and local employment agency
 15. Medical professionals
 16. Notaries Public
 17. Attornies at-Law
 18. Land surveyors (Private)
 19. Foreign liquor stores 
 20. Factory showrooms
 21. Tourist and private bus operators 
 22. Medical laboratories 
 23. Telephone booths 
 24. Specialist medical professionals
 25. Telecommunication Transmitting and Telephone 
towers 
 26. Suppliers of security service
 27. Super markets 
 28. Architects 
 29. Private schools and pre schools
 30. Machinery traders 
 31. hiring vehicles 
 32. Internet and website facilities 
 33. Cleaners (cleaning service)
 34. Supplying labourers and other professionals
 35. Providing local domestic house workers
 36. Tourist Agency
 37. Importers and distributors of goods
 38. Maintenance of counseling service
11–676/5
–––––––––––––––––––
yAtInuWArA   PrADeShIyA  SABhA 
Imposing Assessment tax for the year - 2018
by virtue of the power vested in me by the provisions under 
Section 134(1), read along with Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I,  W. A. L. Tushari Jayaratne, 
being the Secretary and the Implementing Officer of the 
Duties and Authorities of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, 
have decided to impose and levy an annual Assessment Tax 
for the year 2018 in the under mentioned method.    
By virtue of power vested on the Yatinuwara Pradeshiya 
Sabha, under Sub-section (1) of the Section 146 of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I do hereby notify 
that I have decided to accept the assessed value of the year 
2018, as the verification on all houses, buildings, lands and 
tenements situated within the areas declaerd as developed 
within the authority areas of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha 
published  in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
Gazette No. 1114, dated 07.01.2000 ; and by virtue of power 
vested in me under Section 134(1) read along with Section 
9.3 of the said Act, I have dicided to impose under mentioned 
percentum on the said assessed verification, and
Furthermore, I have decided that the Assessment Tax 
imposed for the year 2018, should be payable to the Council 
fund before the date prescribed herein and a discount of ten 
percentum (10%) will be granted when the tax in favour of 
the year 2018, paid before 31st of January 2018 completely 
and five percentum (05%) of discount will be granted if it is 
paid to the Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha Office, within the 
first month of each quarter. 
 W. a. l. t ushari  J ayaratne ,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer 
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution No. 1030.

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1680
SChEDULE
Quarter Date payable Last date for 5% discount
First quarter 31.03.2018 31.01.2018
Second quarter 30.06.2018 30.04.2018
Third quarter 30.09.2018 31.07.2018
Fourth quarter 31.12.2018 30.10.2018
 01.  Colombo - Kandy Road (Suriyagoda Left)  Gangapalatha 09% 
 02. Colombo - Kandy Road (Suriyagoda Right)  Gangapalatha 09%
 03. Muruthalawa - Aladeniya Road Left  Gangapalatha 09%
 04. Muruthalawa - Aladeniya Road Right  Gangapalatha 09% 
 05. Boyagama Road Left  Gangapalatha 09%
 06. Boyagama Road Right  Gangapalatha 09%
 07. Muruthalawa - Kandy Road Left  Gangapalatha 09%
 08. Muruthalawa - Kandy Road Right  Gangapalatha 09%
 09. Muruthalawa - Gannoruwa Road Left  Gangapalatha 09%
 10. Muruthalawa - Gannoruwa Road Right  Gangapalatha 09%
 11. Muruthalawa - Godamuduna Road Left  Gangapalatha 09%
 12. Muruthalawa - Godamuduna Road Right  Gangapalatha 09%
 13. Peradeniya - Gannoruwa Road Left  Gangapalatha 09%
 14. Peradeniya - Gannoruwa Road Right  Gangapalatha 09%
 15. Muruthalawa - Godamuduna Road Left  Gangapalatha 09%
 16. Muruthalawa - Godamuduna Road Right  Gangapalatha 09%
 17. Yahalatenna Road Left  Gangapalatha 09%
 18. Yahalatenna Road Right  Gangapalatha 09%
 19. Kenhinda Mawatha Left  Gangapalatha 06%
 20. Kenhinda Mawatha Right  Gangapalatha 06%
 21. Gannoruwa - Muruthalawa Road Left  Gangapalatha 06%
 22. Gannoruwa - Muruthalawa Road Right  Gangapalatha 06%
 23. Gorakadeniya Road Left  Gangapalatha 04%
 24. Gorakadeniya Road Right  Gangapalatha 04%
 25. Pragathi Mawatha Left  Gangapalatha 04%
 26. Pragathi Mawatha Right  Gangapalatha 04%
 27. Kiribathkumbura Road Left  Gangapalatha 04%
 28. Kiribathkumbura Road Right  Gangapalatha 04%
 29. Edanduwawa Godagandeniya Road Left  Gangapalatha 04%
 30. Edanduwawa Godagandeniya Road Right  Gangapalatha 04%
 31. Elugoda Road Left  Gangapalatha 04%
 32. Elugoda Road Right  Gangapalatha 04%
 33. Arattenna Road  Gangapalatha 04%
 34. Arattenna Road Right  Gangapalatha 04%
 35. Colombo - Kandy Road (Pilimatalawa) Left  Medapalatha 10%
 36. Colombo - Kandy Road (Pilimatalawa) Right  Medapalatha 10%
 37. U dyana Road 1 lane Left  Medapalatha 10%
 38. Udyana Road 1 lane Right  Medapalatha 10%
 39. Udyana Road 2 lane Left  Medapalatha 10%
 40. Udyana Road 2 lane Right  Medapalatha 10%
 41. Udyana Road  Medapalatha 10%
 42. Alagalla Road Left  Kandupalatha 04%
 43. Alagalla Road Right  Kandupalatha 04%
 44. Poththapitiya Road Left  Kandupalatha 04%

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1681
 45. Poththapitiya Road Right  Kandupalatha 04%
 46. Thismada Road Left  Kandupalatha 04%
 47. Thismada Road Right  Kandupalatha 04%
 48. Malgammana Road Left  Kandupalatha 04%
 49. Malgammana Road Right  Kandupalatha 04%
11–676/2
–––––––––––––––––––––––
y AtInuWArA    PrADeShIy A  SABhA 
Imposing Industrial tax for the y ear - 2018
b y virtue of power vested in me by provisions under Section 150(I), read with Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,                   
No. 15 of 1987, I W. A. L. Tushari Jayaratne, being the Secretary and the Implementing Officer of the Duties and Authorities 
of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha have decided to impose and levy an annual Industrial Tax for the year 2018 in the under 
mentioned method. 
By virtue of power vested in me under Section 150(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 
9.3, of the said Act, I have decided to impose and levy an Industrial Tax, as indicated in the Column II at the Schedule on 
every business mentioned in the Column I of the Schedule, carrying on within the jurisdiction of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya 
Sabha, mentioned in the Schedule for the year 2018. 
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and 
 the Implementing officer of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
Resolution No. 1031.
SChEDULE  
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value 
 Serial Nature of Business Do not exceed From Rs. 750 Exceeding
 No.  Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Maintenance of a reception hall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Maintenance of a place supplying ceremonial goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Maintenance of a centre collecting tea leaves 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Maintenance of a place selling motor spare parts  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Maintenance of a place selling three wheeler spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Maintenance of a place selling motor bicycle spare parts  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Maintenance of a place selling bicycle spare parts  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Maintenance of a place selling computers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Maintenance of a place selling mobile phones  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Maintenance of a place hiring cassette VCD and DVD  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Maintenance a place for computer typesetting  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Maintenance a place selling weighing scales  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Maintenance a place selling stationeries books and newspapers  500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1682
 14. Maintenance of a textile shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Maintenance of a place selling gift items  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Maintenance of a place hiring loudspeakers  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Maintenance of a place framing pictures  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Maintenance of a flower plant nursery selling flowers and  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
    artificial flowers 
 19. Maintenance of a place making name boards digital  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  printing and stickers  
 20. Maintenance of a place making and selling musical instruments  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Maintenance of a place hiring machinery equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Maintenance of a showroom and selling brassware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Maintenance of a place selling plastic goods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Maintenance a place for sand mining  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Maintenance of a betting centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Maintenance of a place organizing pilgrimages  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27. Maintenance of an office for plotting land  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28. Maintenance of a place selling ceramic ware  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29. Maintenance of a computer centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. Maintenance of a lottery sales centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31. Maintaining a place selling hardware, building materials, asbestos  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  sheets, PVC pipes and building materials
 32. Maintaining a place selling garments  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33. Maintaining a place selling building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34. Maintenance of a temporary trade stall (per day) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. Maintaining a place hiring construction accessories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36. Maintaining a place for local and international calls 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37. Maintaining a place selling aluminium ware  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 38. Maintenance of a place selling wooden, plastic and steel furnitures 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39. Maintenance of a place selling antique articles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40. Maintenance of a place selling hand crafts  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 41. For a co-operative shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 42. Maintenance of an optical center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 43. Maintenance of an selling Atapirikara and religious goods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 44. Providing ceremonial goods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 45. Storing and selling timber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 46. Storing and selling coconut rafters 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 47. Footwear, leather goods, bags trading centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 48. Maintaining a place selling electrical goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 49. Bricks, sand, metal, granite trading centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 50. Tyre, tube trading centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 51. Computer software creators 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 52. Comptuer engineers  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 53. Trading industrial tools 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 54. Trading amano sheets and gutters  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 55. Maintenance of a palce selling funeral articles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 56. Jewellery mart 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 57. Maintaining a photocopying centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 58. Decoration of motor vehicles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value 
 Serial Nature of Business Do not exceed From Rs. 750 Exceeding
 No.  Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1683
 59. Pottery trading 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 60. Any other business enterprise not mentioned in this Schedule to 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  issue license
11–676/3
–––––––––––––––––––
yA tInuWArA   PrADeShIy A  SABhA 
Levy of Solid Waste charges under Solid Waste management By-laws for the y ear 2018
BY virtue of power vested in me under Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, W.A. L. Tushani 
Jayaratne, being the Secretary and the Implementing officer of the Duties and Authorities of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, 
have decided to impose and levy Solid Waste charges for the year 2018 in the under mentioned method. 
In terms of Standard By-laws of Local Authorities No. 06 of 1952 and provisions of the said By-laws, I have decided 
to levy the Solid Waste Charges for the year 2018 in the under mentioned method according to the Gazette notification of 
the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, dated 12.08.2016.
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and the Implementing officer  
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
RESOLUTION No. 1037.
MONThLY ChARGES     
 Serial  Category  Section  50kg 30kg 20kg 10kg 10kg General
 No.  according to   40kg 30kg 20kg 
   the By-laws Rs.  Rs.  Rs.  Rs.  Rs.  
01 Animals carcass in house surrounding 8(ii) 1,000 0 800 0 500 0 250 0 200 0 –
02 Shops and Offices 11(ii) 1,000 0 800 0 500 0 250 0 200 0 –
03 hotels 12(v) 5,000 0 2,500 0 2,000 0 1,000 0 500 0 –
04 Vegetable/Fruit Stalls 13(iii) 2,000 0 1,000 0 500 0 300 0 200 0 –
05 Beef, fish/chicken/egg 14(iii) 1,000 0 800 0 500 0 250 0 200 0 –
06 Pavement Trade/Temporary Trade 15(vi) – – – – – 100 0
07 Factories 16(ii) 2,000 0 1,000 0 500 0 250 0 200 0 –
08 Mining/Cnstructions/Demolishments 17(ii) – – – – – 2,500 0
 derbies per Tractor load
09 Super Markets 20(iv) 2,000 0 1,000 0 500 0 250 0 200 0 –
10 Tea/Retail shops 20(iv) 1,000 0 500 0 250 0 200 0 100 0 –
11 hospitals 19(iii) 1,000 0 500 0 250 0 200 0 100 0 –
11–676/9
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value 
 Serial Nature of Business Do not exceed From Rs. 750 Exceeding
 No.  Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1684
yA tInuWArA    PrADeShIy A   SABhA  
License fees Imposed on certain Business conducting under By-laws for the year - 2018
by virtue of power vested in me under Sections 147 and 149, read with Section 9.3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 
of 1987, I have decided to impose and levy an annual License Fees Tax for the Year 2018 in the under mentioned method. 
It is hereby decided by me to impose and levy a license fee, in favour of the Year 2018, on every industry conducted 
within the administrative area of Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha using certain premises, in the Year 2018, set out in the 
Column II of the Schedule, on issue of every license by the Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, businesses stipulated in the 
Column I of the Schedule, under By Laws complied or adopted by the Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha, by virtue of power 
vested on Pradeshiya Sabha, under Section 149, read along the Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, and 
A license fee to be charged when a hotel, restaurant or a lodge registered in the Sri Lanka Tourist Board Act, under 
14 of 1968 approved or accepted, such hotels, restaurants or lodges shall pay a maximum license fee of one percentum (l %) 
of the 2017 Year’s income has to be levied as license fee for the Year 2018. 
 W. a. l. tushari Jayaratne,
 Secretary/ Authority of the Council and the Implementing officer  
 of the Duties and Authorities, 
 Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the Yatinuwara Pradeshiya Sabha Office, 
04th day of October, 2017.
RESOLUTION No. 1032
SChEDULE 
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value 
 Serial Nature of Business Do not exceed From Rs. 750 Exceeding
 No.  Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Maintenance of a retail trading centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Maintenance of a tea kiosk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Maintenance of a hotel/eating house/restaurant  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Maintenance of a guest house/rest house/lodge 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Maintenance of a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Maintenance of a place selling bakery products  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Maintenance of a place making confectioneries  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Maintenance of a place selling sweets and biscuits  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Maintenance of a place selling cool drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Maintenance of a place making and selling ice-cream and yoghurt 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Maintenance of a place selling vegetables 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Maintenance of a fruit stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Maintenance of a place packing tea dust 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Maintenance of a place selling oil fried foods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Maintenance of a place selling beef  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Maintenance of a palce selling mutton  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Maintenance of a place selling frozen chicken and eggs  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Maintenance of a place selling sea and tank fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Maintaing a cattle slaughter house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Maintenance of a place storing and selling animal foods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Maintenance of a grocery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1685
 22. Maintenance of a place selling dry fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Maintenance of a mechanized saw mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Maintenance of a mechanized carpentry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Maintenance of a wood working industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Maintenance of a quarry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27. Maintenance of a mechanized granite grinder  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28. Maintenance of a lime kiln 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29. Maintenance of a brick kiln 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. Maintenance of a place repairing motor vehicles (motor mechanic) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31. Repair of motor vehicles (tinkering and spray painting) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32. Repairing motor vehicles (electric) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33. Repairing of motor vehicles (air conditioned) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34. Repairing motor vehicles (diesel pump) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. Lorry body building and repairing centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36. Repairs of motor bicycles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37. Repairing three wheelers  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 38. Repairing bicycles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39. A place for servicing motor vehicles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40. A place for servicing three wheelers  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 41. A place making cement allied products such as block, 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  concrete poles and pipes 
 42. Maintenance of a place repairing electrical equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 43. Maintenance of a place repairing computers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 44. Maintenance of a place servicing weighing instruments  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 45. Maintenance of a place repairing radios, television and mobile phones  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 46. Maintenance of a lathe workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 47. Maintenance of a blacksmith workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 48. Maintenance of a place repairing watches and clocks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 49. Maintenance of a place vulcanizing tyres and tubes  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 50. Maintenance of a fibre glass workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 51. Maintenance of a place for cushion work 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 52. Maintenance of a place making zinc and aluminiumware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 53. Maintenance of a brass foundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 54. Maintenance of a place making and selling silver and gold jewelleries  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 55. Maintenance of a rice mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 56. Maintenance of a mill for grinding grains and provisions 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 57. Maintenance of a place making drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 58. Maintaining a poultry and pigsty farm  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 59. Maintenance a dairy and goat farm  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 60. Maintenance of a place making and trading footwear leather  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  goods and bags 
 61. Maintenance of a laundry  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 62. Maintaining a place making coir products, brooms and ekel brooms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 63. Maintenance of a place making monuments, stone carving and statues  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 64. Maintaining a place storing and selling chemical fertilizers and  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  pesticides 
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value 
 Serial Nature of Business Do not exceed From Rs. 750 Exceeding
 No.  Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1686
 65. Maintaining a printing press  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 66. Maintaining a place making rubber stamps  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 67. Maintenance of a place making exercise books  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 68. Maintaining a batic industry and showroom  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 69. Maintaining a place making and trading clutch liners and break liners 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 70. lubricant oil trading  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 71. Maintenance of a welding workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 72. Maintenance of a soap factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 73. Maintenance of a place making aluminium doors and windows  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 74. Maintenance of a place repairing machineries and equipments  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 75. Maintenance of a mushroom cultivation  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 76. Maintenance of a place selling beetle leaves and arecanut  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 77. Maintenance of a place chilling and collecting milk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 78. Maintenance of a place purchasing and selling spice  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 79. Maintenance of a place making charcoal  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 80. Maintenance of a barber saloon  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 81. Maintenance of a beauty center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 82. Maintenance of a place collecting scrap goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 83. Maintenance of a place charging, repairing and selling batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 84. Maintenance of a place selling gas 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 85. Maintenance of a tailoring mart  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 86. Maintenance of a pharmacy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 87. Maintenance of a native herbal pharmacy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 88. Maintenance of a medical clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 89. Maintenance of a native medical clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 90. Maintenance of a firework depot 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 91. Maintenance of a place for cutting and selling glass 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 92. Maintenance of a dental clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 93. Maintenance of a place storing and selling firewood 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 94. Maintenance of a filling station  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 95. Maintenance of a place making and selling insane sticks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 96. Maintenance of a place selling ornamental fish and pets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 97. Maintenance of a veterinary clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 98. Maintenance a place for selling paints 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 99. Itinerary trading
  (i) Carrying by head 250 0 500 0 750 0
  (ii) On a bicycle 250 0 500 0 750 0
  (iii) On a hand cart 250 0 500 0 750 0
  (vi) On a vehicle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 100. Maintenance of a funeral service undertaking place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 101. Trading of agricultural equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 102. Maintenance of a photographic studio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 103. Maintenance of a place selling coconut oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
104. Any other business enterprise not mentioned in this Schedule to  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  issue license
11–676/4
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value 
 Serial Nature of Business Do not exceed From Rs. 750 Exceeding
 No.  Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 43 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1687
PASGoDA   PrADeShIy A   SABhA  
Imposition of Business t ax for the year - 2018
by virtue of the powers vested in the Secretary of Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 09(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that following decision 
was taken under decision No. 2076 on 11th day of October, 
2017. 
 r. dinusha laKMali,
 Secretary and Officer of Implementing  
 Powers and Functions,
 Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
 Urubokka.
head Office of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
11th day of October, 2017. 
PROPOSAL
as per the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by Sub-
section (1) of Section 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 
of 1987 :
 ( a) The Sabha has proposed to impose and recover an 
business tax on the income of 2013 of any business 
which is functioning in 2017 in the area of Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha as mentioned in the first column 
and amount of tax mentioned in the second column 
of the following Schedule for the year 2018. 
 ( b) As per the powers vested by Sub-section 03, It is 
further notified that any person who are subject to this 
tax should pay such tax to the Pasgoda Pradeshiya 
Sabha before 01st of April, 2018. 
Business tax 
schedule  no. 01
 Column I Column II
 Returns of the business for the year Rs. cts.
 1. When not exceeding Rs.6,000  Nil
 2. From Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 12,000  90 0
 3. From Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 18,750  180 0
 4. From Rs. 18,750 to Rs. 75,000   360 0
 5. From Rs. 75,000 to Rs. 150,000   1,200 0
 6. When exceeding Rs. 150,000  3,000 0  
schedule  no. 02
 01. Maintenance of a place of storing bricks for sale 
 02. Maintenance of a place of storing tiles for sale 
 03. Maintenance of a place of selling firewood 
 04. Maintenance of a place of storing/selling empty bottles 
 05. Maintenance of a place of storing/selling empty gunny 
bags 
 06. Maintenance of a place of storing /selling over 01 
grouse of cool drinks 
 07. Maintenance of a place of storing lime/lime stones for 
sale 
 08. Maintenance of a place of storing newspapers/papers 
for sale 
 09. Maintenance of a place of storing animal food over 01 
ton 
 10. Maintenance of a place of storing artificial fertilizer 
for sale 
 11. Maintenance of a place of storing cement for sale 
 12. Maintenance of a place of selling furniture 
 13. Maintenance of a place of storing tea powder over 03 
hundred weights for sale 
 14. Maintenance of a place of selling computers and 
computer accessories 
 15. Maintenance of a communication center 
 16. Maintenance of a place of collecting plantains and 
areconut 
 17. Maintenance of a place of selling offering items 
 18. Maintenance of a place of selling herbal oil . 
 19. Maintenance of a place of physical exercises of fitness 
center
 20. Maintenance of a place of providing consultancy 
services 
 21. Maintenance of a place of selling fancy items 
 22. Maintenance of a place of selling electric equipments 
 23. Maintenance of a place of hiring loudspeakers 
 24. Maintenance of a place of selling radios/ televisions/ 
sewing machines/ bicycles 
 25.  Maintenance of a place of selling garments 
 26.  Maintenance of a place of selling leather products 
 27.  Maintenauce of a place of selling aluminum/plastic 
items 
 28. Maintenance of a place of hiring festivel items 
 29. Maintenance of an agency of sewing machines 
 30. Maintenance of a book shop 
 31. Maintenance of a place of selling spare parts of motor 
vehicles/motor cycles/tractors/bicycles  . 
 32. Maintenance of a place of selling stationery 
 33. Maintenance of a place of selling glass or glass items 
 34. Maintenance of a place of selling ayurvedic drugs 
 35. Maintenance of a place of selling western drugs 
(pharmacy) 
 36. Maintenance of a place of providing ayurvedic treatment 

<!-- page 44 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1688
 37. Maintenance of a place of providing western medical 
treatment 
 38. Maintenance of a place of producing earthen ware 
 39.  Maintenance of a place of producing or selling funeral 
items 
 40. Maintenance of a place of selling betel leaves 
 41. Maintenance of a place of selling ready made garments 
 42. Maintenance of a place of selling motor cycles/ hand 
tractors/ three wheelers 
 43. Maintenance of a place of photo copying 
 44. Maintenance of a place of selling toys 
 45. Maintenance of a place of taping or writing CDs 
 46. Maintenance of a record bar 
 47. Maintenance of a place of selling lotteries 
 48. Maintenance of a computer training center 
 49. Maintenance of a place of storing cadjan for sale 
 50. Maintenance of a foreign employment agency 
 51. Maintenance of a place of collecting raw tea tender 
leaves 
 52. Maintenance of a Juki machine training center 
 53. Maintenance of a place of selling newspapers 
 54. Maintenance of a place of showing video films 
 55. Maintenance of a cinema 
 56. Maintenance of an authorized batting center 
 57. Maintenance of a place of selling iron items/ water 
pump equipments/ brass equipments 
 58. Maintenance of a place of purchasing and selling 
domestic materials such as cinnamon/ pepper / rubber 
 59. Maintenance of a place of selling sawn timber 
including coconut timber 
 60. Maintenance of a place of playing table tennis 
 61. Maintenance of a place of hiring electric generators or 
electric equipments 
 62. Maintenance of a place of selling ceramic ware 
 63. Maintenance of a place of storing cigarette for whole 
sale 
 64. Maintenance of a place of selIing concrete or cement 
products 
 65. Maintenance of a place of selling plastic products or 
name boards 
 66. Maintenance of a grocery 
 67. Maintenance of a place of keeping ornamental fish 
 68. Maintenance of a place of storing tyres and tubes for 
sale 
 69. Maintenance of a place of selling mobile phones 
 70. Maintenance of a place of selling motor vehicles 
 71. Maintenance of a place of cutting and polishing gems 
 72. Maintenance of a medical channeling center 
 73. Maintenance of a place of selling telephone prepaid 
cards 
 74. Maintenance of a place of selling paints 
 75. Maintenance of a foreign tour agency 
 76. Maintenance of a place of selling building materials 
 77. Maintenance of a financial institution 
 78. Maintenance of a place of storing boxes of matches 
over 01 gross for sale 
 79. Maintenance of a place of selling cigars/beedi 
 80. Maintenance of a place of selling shoes 
 81. Maintenance of a place of selling jewellery 
 82. Maintenance of a place of storing and selling metal, 
sand and bricks 
 83.  Maintenance of an Insurance agency 
 84. Maintenance of a medical laboratory 
 85. Maintenance of a place of selling arrack/beer
 86. Maintenance of a place of selling fertilizer 
 87. Maintenance of a place of selling tiles 
 88. Maintenance of a press operated manually 
 89. Maintenance of a press operated by machines 
 90. Maintenance of a place of storing acids for sale 
 91. Maintenance of a place of storing agro chemicals for 
sale 
 92. Maintenance of a place of storing fire works for sale 
 93. Maintenance of a place of storing or selling gas 
 94. Maintenance of a place of selling agro chemicals 
 95. Maintenance of a telecommunication transmission 
tower 
 96. Maintenance of a filling station 
 97. Maintenance of a tea factory 
 98. Maintenance of a super market   
 99. Maintenance of a place of providing astrology 
services 
 100. Maintenance of a place of designing house plans 
 101. Maintenance of a timber mill 
 102. Maintenance of a metal crusher 
 103. Maintenance of a garment factory where over 25 
servants are employed 
 104. Maintenance of a place of selling cool drinks 
 105. Maintenance of a place of storing milk powder and 
tinned food items for sale 
 106. Maintenance of a place of selling tyres and tubes
 107. Maintenance of a place of selling floor tiles and 
bathroom sets
 108. Maintenance of a construction firm 
 109. Maintenance of a place of selling ornamental items 
 110. Maintenance of a place of selling ornamental 
jewellery
 111. Maintenance of a place of sewing curtains/carpets
 112. Maintenance of an agency post office
 113. Maintenance of a place of selling mobile phone spare 
parts 
 114. Maintenance of a place of selling baby garments and 
equipments

<!-- page 45 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1689
 115. Maintenance of a place of checking vehicle smoke
 116. Maintenance of a place of manufacturing concrete 
cubes for the construction of roads 
 117. Maintenance of a place of providing funeral services 
 118. Maintenance of a motor vehicle service center
 119. Maintenance of a place of whole selling chilies, salt 
and other perishable food items
 120. Maintenance of a place of bottling and selling 
drinking water
 121. Maintenance of a place of retail selling spices, rice, 
sugar, milk powder
 122. Maintenance of a place of whole selling spices, rice, 
sugar, milk powder
 123. Maintenance of a driving learning school
 124. Maintenance of a private tuition institute (children 
over 25)
 125. Maintenance of a place of packing food items for sale
 126. Maintenance of a rice mill
 127. Maintenance of a place of grinding chilies and spices 
using machines
 128. Maintenance of a place of packing tea powder
 129. Maintenance of a welding shop
 130. Maintenance of a grinding mill - chilies/rice/spices
 131. Maintenance of a place of selling chilled meat/fish
 132. Maintenance of a coconut oil mill
 133. Maintenance of a place of manufacturing cement 
bricks
 134. Maintenance of a lathe machine for carpentry works
 135. Maintenance of a dental clinic
 136. Maintenance of a motor cycle/three wheelers service 
center
 137. Maintenance of a place of selling fruits
 138. Maintenance of a place of chilled food items (yogurt, 
packets of fruit drink, ice cream)
 139. Maintenance of a place of selling vegetable
 140. Maintenance of a place of retail selling of chilies, salt 
and other perishable food items
 141. Maintenance of a mobile business of bakery products
 142. Maintenance of a carpentry workshop using multi 
purpose machines 
 143. Maintenance of a place of repairing bicycles 
 144. Maintenance of a place of repairing motor cycles/three 
wheelers/hand tractors 
 145. Maintenance of a place of vulcanizing tyre and tubes
 146. Maintenance of a place of producing jewellery
 147. Maintenance of a studio
 148. Maintenance of a place of repairing radios/television/
sewing machines/electric items of all kind
 149. Maintenance of a place of repairing watches
 150. Maintenance of a place of repairing shoes and 
umbrellas
 151. Maintenance of a cushion workshop
 152. Maintenance of a place of packing/selling spice 
powder/chilly powder
 153. Maintenance of a place of manufacturing grill gates or 
steel items
 154. Maintenance of a beauty center 
 155. Maintenance of a place of selling three wheel spare 
parts
 156. Maintenance of a place of making name boards/notice 
boards/banners
 157. Maintenance of a place of repairing mobile phones
 158. Maintenance of a place of gold and silver plating
 159. Maintenance of a place of repairing refrigerators or 
deep freezers or air conditioners 
 160. Maintenance of a place of motor vehicle electrician
 161. Maintenance of a place of sewing garments
 162. Maintenance of a place of repairing motor vehicles 
 163. Maintenance of a steel lathe machine
 164. Maintenance of a place of repairing vehicle air 
condition system
 165. Maintenance of a private pre school and day care 
center.
11–671/4
–––––––––––––––––––––––
PASGoDA  PrADeShIy A  SABhA 
Imposition of Acreage tax for the y ear - 2018
by virtue of the powers vested in the Secretary of Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 09(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that following decision 
was taken under decision No. 2077 on 11th day of October, 
2017. 
 r. dinusha laKMali,
 Secretary and Officer of Implementing  
 Powers and Functions,
 Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
 Urubokka.
head Office of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
11th day of October, 2017. 
PROPOSAL
As per the powers vested by Sub-section (1) of Section 
146 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, 
 ( a) Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha propose to accept the 
valuation of 2017 as the valuation for the year 2018 
of every land which is situated in the area of Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha and subject to acreage tax.  

<!-- page 46 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1690
 ( b)  As per the powers vested by Sub-section (3) of 
section 134 of such Act, the Sabha propose to 
impose and recover an acreage tax of Rs. 10 for the 
year 2014 on every and each hectare of every land 
containing in extent 05 acre or more and Rs. 50 
on every land containing in extent not less than 01 
hectare but less than 05 hectare situated in the area 
published as a special area by the hon. Minister of 
Local government for the purpose of imposing and 
recovering acreage tax by an order published in the 
Gazette dated 10.03.1989.
 ( c) As per the powers vested by Sub-section (6) of 
section 134 Sabha has proposed that every person 
subject to this tax should pay these taxes to the 
Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasgoda in equal installments 
in four quarters ending respectively on 31st March, 
30th June, 30th September and 31st December in 
2018. 
11–671/6
–––––––––––––––––
PASGoDA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA 
Imposition of Garbage removal fee for the year - 2018
by virtue of the powers vested in the Secretary of Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 09(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that following decision 
was taken under decision No. 2078 on 11th day of October, 
2017. 
 r. dinusha laKMali,
 Secretary and Officer of Implementing  
 Powers and Functions,
 Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
 Urubokka.
head Office of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
11th day of October, 2017. 
PROPOSAL
By virtue of powers vested by Section 122 and 126 (IX) 
(b) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, and as per 
the sub statute on solid waste management in the Gazette                
No. 1834 dated 25.10.2013 published on 24.06.2016 by 
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha, Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha 
propose to impose and recover a garbage removal service 
fee for the year 2018 from any resident or businessman who 
is residing in the area of such service is provided. 
   Rs. cts. 
01. For a service center/garage 2,400 0
02. For a hotel 2,400 0
03. For a fruit/vegetable stall 1,800 0
04. For other businesses 1,200 0
05. Domestic 600 0
06. For a factory 12,000 0
11–671/8
–––––––––––––––
PASGoDA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA 
Imposition of Advertisement tax for the year - 2018
by virtue of the powers vested in the Secretary of Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 09(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that following decision 
was taken under decision No. 2079 on 11th day of October, 
2017. 
 r. dinusha laKMali,
 Secretary and Officer of Implementing  
 Powers and Functions,
 Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
 Urubokka.
head Office of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
11th day of October, 2017. 
PROPOSAL
As per the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by para 
(b) of Sub-section (1) of Section 147 which should be read 
with section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 
and since the Sabha has accepted the sub statute made under 
the said Act and published in the Gazette Extraordinary           
No. 520/7 dated 23.08.2009, the Sabha has proposed to 
impose and recover an advertisement tax on display and 
construction of advertisements that are to be displayed 
for any street, road, canal, lake or sky within the area of 
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha, as mentioned in the first column 
and amount of tax mentioned in the second column of the 
following Schedule for the year 2018. 

<!-- page 47 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1691
s chedule
 Serial  01st Column 02nd Column 
 No.  From 1sq. ft. to 
   Rs. cts. 
01. For advertisement Boards displayed 75 0
02. For a banner or cut out displayed 50 0
03. For advertisements painted on walls 75 0
04. Rs. 20 per day for advertisement board which is 
operated by digital or LED bulbs. 
11–671/3
––––––––––––––––
PASGoDA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA 
Imposition of entertainment tax for the year - 2018
AS per the powers vested by Sub-section (1) of Section 2 
of Entertainment Tax Ordinance (Chapter 267), it is hereby 
notified that the following proposal passed by the Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha of Matara District at the meeting held 
on 01.03.2012 was approved by hon. Shan Wijayalal De 
Silva, Minister of Local Government of Southern Provincial 
Council by virtue of the powers vested by Sub-section (2) of 
Section (2) of the Entertainment Tax Ordinance that should 
be read with Para (a) of Sub-section (1) of Section (2) of 
Provincial Council Act (Supplementary Provisions) No. 12 
of 1989.
by virtue of the powers vested in the Secretary of Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 09(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that following decision 
was taken under decision No. 2080 on 11th day of October, 
2017. 
 r. d inusha  l aKMali ,
 Secretary and Officer of Implementing  
 Powers and Functions,
 Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
 Urubokka.
head Office of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
11th day of October, 2017. 
PROPOSAL
Every person who conduct any entertainment purpose 
pertaining to purposes of Entertainment Tax Ordinance - 
Chapter 267 within the area of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha 
should pay entertainment taxes to Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha 
mentioned as follows : 
 ( a) In case of a film, an amount similar to seven point 
five percent (7.5%) of total income received from 
all entrants ; and 
 ( b) If it is another deed of entertainment, an amount 
similar to ten percent (10%) of total income 
received from all entrants. 
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha hereby propose to impose 
and recover above taxes by virtue of powers vested in 
Local Government Institutions by Section 2 of the said 
Entertainment Tax Ordinance. 
11–671/2
–––––––––––––––
PASGoDA   PrADeShIyA   SABhA 
Imposition of other fees for the year - 2018
by virtue of the powers vested in the Secretary of Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 09(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that following decision 
was taken under decision No. 2081 on 11th day of October, 
2017. 
 r. d inusha  l aKMali ,
 Secretary and Officer of Implementing  
 Powers and Functions,
 Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
 Urubokka.
head Office of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
11th day of October, 2017. 
PROPOSAL
AS per the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, Pasgoda Pradeshiya 
Sabha has proposed to impose and recover fees mentioned in 
the following Schedule for the year 2018. 

<!-- page 48 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1692
s chedule  
 Serial Type of the job Fee to be  
 No.  paid 
    Rs. cts. 
 01 A. T. form (Deed summary form) 250  0
 02 Building application fee -
   (i) Within the Urban area 400  0
   (ii) Beyond the Urban area 300  0
 03 Fee of felling dangerous trees -
   (i) For a jak tree 500  0
   (ii) For other tree  350  0
 04 Certificate of conformity for buildings -  600  0
  for residential construction/commercial 
  construction  for 400m
  For every meter exceeding  0 50
 05 Street line/non vesting certificates -
   (i) Application fee 50  0
   (ii) Fee for street line/non vesting  450  0
    certificates
 06 Fee of damaging Sabha Roads  1,500  0
 07 Environment permit fees
   (i) Questionnarie fees 300  0
   (ii) Application fee 350  0
 08 Land sub-division application form fee 300  0
 09 Renting out lands belongs to Pradeshiya  1,000 0 
  Sabha for meetings and other purposes -
  per day 
 10 Library fees -
   (i) Application form fee 50  0
   (ii) Bond deposit fee 250  0
   (iii) In case of loss of a book obtained by  
    the member double as the value of the 
    book has to be paid
 11 Preparation fee for the construction of a 
  boundary wall -
   (i) For first 100 long meter 1,000  0
   (ii) For every exceeding meter 10  0
11–671/1
–––––––––––––––––
PASGoDA   PrADeShIyA   SABhA 
Imposition of Weekly fair tax for the year - 2018
by virtue of the powers vested in the Secretary of Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 09(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,             
No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that following decision 
was taken under decision No. 2074 on 11th of October, 2017. 
 r. d inusha  l aKMali ,
 Secretary and Officer of Implementing  
 Powers and Functions,
 Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
 Urubokka.
head Office of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
11th day of October, 2017. 
PROPOSAL
As per the powers vested by Para(b) of Sub-section (1) of 
Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 which 
should be read with Section 149 of the said Act, Pasgoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha hereby propose that it was decided to 
recover tax from weekly fairs functioning within the area 
of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha as mentined in the following 
Schedule as per sub statute 33 in the Gazette Extraordinary 
No. 520/7 dated 23.08.1988 which has been accepted by 
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha by Gazette No. 1702 dated 
15.04.2011.
u ruBoKKa  W eeKly  f air
 Rs. cts.
For one permanent boutique room  200 0
Open grounds (Maximum land extent up to 40 sq. ft.)
 01 Sale of vegetable 150 0
 02 Sale of green leaves 130 0
 03 Sale of betel leaves 130 0
 04 Sale of ornamental items/fancy goods 150 0
 05 Sale of textile/readymade graments 150 0
 06 Sale of shoes/bags 150 0
 07 Sale of earthen ware 150 0
 08 Sale of plastic aluminium works 150 0
 09 Sale of domestic agro products 150 0
 10 Sale of hollow reeds/cane products 150 0
 11 Sale of ice cream 130 0
 12 Sale of bakery products 150 0
 13 Sale of fruits 150 0
 14 Sale of meat/fish (for one stall) 400 0
 15 Sale of fish (for one basket) 200 0
 16 Sale of hardware/set of tools 150 0
 17 Collection and sale of arecanut/plantain 150 0
 18 Sale of spices 150 0
 19 Sale of retail goods 150 0
 20 Sale of flower plants/vegetable 150 0

<!-- page 49 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1693
 21 Sale of curd 150 0
 22 Sale of treacle 150 0
 23 Sale of coir products 150 0
 24 Sale of tea powder 150 0
 25 Maintaining a tea boutique 150 0
 26 Sale of lotteries 150 0
 27 Sale of other items 150 0
B engaMuW a  W eeKly  f air
For one permanent boutique room  150 0
Open grounds (Maximum land extent up to 40 sq. ft.)
 01 Sale of vegetable 130 0
 02 Sale of green leaves 80 0
 03 Sale of betel leaves 80 0
 04 Sale of ornamental items/fancy goods 100 0
 05 Sale of textile/readymade graments 130 0
 06 Sale of shoes/bags 130 0
 07 Sale of earthen ware 80 0
 08 Sale of plastic aluminium works 130 0
 09 Sale of domestic agro products 130 0
 10 Sale of hollow reeds/cane products 100 0
 11 Sale of ice cream 100 0
 12 Sale of bakery products 100 0
 13 Sale of fruits 100 0
 14 Sale of meat/fish (for one stall) 250 0
 15 Sale of fish (for one basket) 130 0
 16 Sale of hardware/set of tools 100 0
 17 Collection and sale of arecanut/plantain 100 0
 18 Sale of spices 100 0
 19 Sale of retain goods 100 0
 20 Sale of flower plants/vegetable 100 0
 21 Sale of curd 100 0
 22 Sale of treacle 100 0
 23 Sale of coir products 100 0
 24 Sale of tea powder 100 0
 25 Maintaining a tea boutique 250 0
 26 Sale of lotteries 100 0
 27 Sale of other items 100 0
P asgoda  W eeKly  f air
For one permanent boutique room  150 0
Open grounds (Maximum land extent up to 40 sq. ft.)
 01 Sale of vegetable 130 0
 02 Sale of green leaves 80 0
 03 Sale of betel leaves 80 0
 04 Sale of ornamental items/fancy goods 100 0
 05 Sale of textile/readymade graments 130 0
 06 Sale of shoes/bags 130 0
 07 Sale of earthen ware 80 0
 08 Sale of plastic aluminium works 130 0
 09 Sale of domestic agro products 130 0
 10 Sale of hollow reeds/cane products 100 0
 11 Sale of ice cream 100 0
 12 Sale of bakery products 100 0
 13 Sale of fruits 100 0
 14 Sale of meat/fish (for one stall) 250 0
 15 Sale of fish (for one basket) 130 0
 16 Sale of hardware/set of tools 100 0
 17 Collection and sale of arecanut/plantain 100 0
 18 Sale of spices 100 0
 19 Sale of retain goods 100 0
 20 Sale of flower plants/vegetable 100 0
 21 Sale of curd 100 0
 22 Sale of treacle 100 0
 23 Sale of coir products 100 0
 24 Sale of tea powder 100 0
 25 Maintaining a tea boutique 250 0
 26 Sale of lotteries 100 0
 27 Sale of other items 100 0
M a W arala  W eeKly  f air
For one permanent boutique room  150 0
Open grounds (Maximum land extent up to 40 sq. ft.)
 01 Sale of vegetable 130 0
 02 Sale of green leaves 80 0
 03 Sale of betel leaves 80 0
 04 Sale of ornamental items/fancy goods 100 0
 05 Sale of textile/readymade graments 130 0
 06 Sale of shoes/bags 130 0
 07 Sale of earthen ware 80 0
 08 Sale of plastic aluminium works 130 0
 09 Sale of domestic agro products 130 0
 10 Sale of hollow reeds/cane products 100 0
 11 Sale of ice cream 100 0
 12 Sale of bakery products 100 0
 13 Sale of fruits 100 0
 14 Sale of meat/fish (for one stall) 250 0
 15 Sale of fish (for one basket) 130 0
 16 Sale of hardware/set of tools 100 0
 17 Collection and sale of areconut/plantain 100 0
 18 Sale of spices 100 0
 19 Sale of retail goods 100 0
 20 Sale of flower plants/vegetable 100 0
 21 Sale of curd 100 0
 22 Sale of treacle 100 0
 23 Sale of coir products 100 0
 Rs. cts.  Rs. cts.

<!-- page 50 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1694
 24 Sale of tea powder 100 0
 25 Maintaining a tea boutique 250 0
 26 Sale of lotteries 100 0
 27 Sale of other items 100 0
r otuMBa  W eeKly  f air
For one permanent boutique room  150 0
Open grounds (Maximum land extent up to 40 sq. ft.)
 01 Sale of vegetable 130 0
 02 Sale of green leaves 80 0
 03 Sale of betel leaves 80 0
 04 Sale of ornamental items/fancy goods 100 0
 05 Sale of textile/readymade garments 130 0
 06 Sale of shoes/bags 130 0
 07 Sale of earthen ware 80 0
 08 Sale of plastic aluminium works 130 0
 09 Sale of domestic agro products 130 0
 10 Sale of hollow reeds/cane products 100 0
 11 Sale of ice cream 100 0
 12 Sale of bakery products 100 0
 13 Sale of fruits 100 0
 14 Sale of meat/fish (for one stall) 250 0
 15 Sale of fish (for one basket) 130 0
 16 Sale of hardware/set of tools 100 0
 17 Collection and sale of areconut/plantain 100 0
 18 Sale of spices 100 0
 19 Sale of retail goods 100 0
 20 Sale of flower plants/vegetable 100 0
 21 Sale of curd 100 0
 22 Sale of treacle 100 0
 23 Sale of coir products 100 0
 24 Sale of tea powder 100 0
 25 Maintaining a tea boutique 250 0
 26 Sale of lotteries 100 0
 27 Sale of other items 100 0
K eta W ala  W eeKly  f air
For one permanent boutique room  120 0
Open grounds (Maximum land extent up to 40 sq. ft.)
 01 Sale of vegetables 100 0
 02 Sale of green leaves 80 0
 03 Sale of betel leaves 80 0
 04 Sale of ornamental items/fancy goods 80 0
 05 Sale of textile/readymade garments 100 0
 06 Sale of shoes/bags 80 0
 07 Sale of earthen ware 80 0
 08 Sale of plastic aluminium works 80 0
 09 Sale of domestic agro products 80 0
 10 Sale of hollow reeds/cane products 80 0
 11 Sale of ice cream 80 0
 12 Sale of bakery products 80 0
 13 Sale of fruits 80 0
 14 Sale of meat/fish (for one stall) 200 0
 15 Sale of fish (for one basket) 100 0
 16 Sale of hardware/set of tools 80 0
 17 Collection and sale of areconut/plantain 80 0
 18 Sale of spices 100 0
 19 Sale of retail goods 100 0
 20 Sale of flower plants/vegetable 80 0
 21 Sale of curd 80 0
 22 Sale of treacle 80 0
 23 Sale of coir products 80 0
 24 Sale of tea powder 80 0
 25 Maintaining a tea boutique 150 0
 26 Sale of lotteries 80 0
 27 Sale of other items 80 0
B eralaP anathara  W eeKly  f air
For one permanent boutique room  150 0
Open grounds (Maximum land extent up to 40 sq. ft.)
 01 Sale of vegetables 130 0
 02 Sale of green leaves 80 0
 03 Sale of betel leaves 80 0
 04 Sale of ornamental items/fancy goods 100 0
 05 Sale of textile/readymade graments 130 0
 06 Sale of shoes/bags 130 0
 07 Sale of earthen ware 80 0
 08 Sale of plastic aluminium works 130 0
 09 Sale of domestic agro products 130 0
 10 Sale of hollow reeds/cane products 100 0
 11 Sale of ice cream 100 0
 12 Sale of bakery products 100 0
 13 Sale of fruits 100 0
 14 Sale of meat/fish (for one stall) 250 0
 15 Sale of fish (for one basket) 130 0
 16 Sale of hardware/set of tools 130 0
 17 Collection and sale of areconut/plantain 130 0
 18 Sale of spices 130 0
 19 Sale of retail goods 130 0
 20 Sale of flower plants/vegetable 100 0
 21 Sale of curd 100 0
 22 Sale of treacle 100 0
 23 Sale of coir products 100 0
 24 Sale of tea powder 100 0
 25 Maintaining a tea boutique 250 0
 26 Sale of lotteries 100 0
 27 Sale of other items 100 0
11–671/9
 Rs. cts.  Rs. cts.

<!-- page 51 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1695
P ASGoDA    PrADeShIy A    SABhA  
Imposition of Permit fees for the year - 2018
by virtue of the powers vested in the Secretary of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 09(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that following decision was taken under decision No. 2073 on 11th of October, 2017. 
 r. dinusha laKMali,
 Secretary and Officer of Implementing  
 Powers and Functions, Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
 Urubokka.
head Office of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
11th day of October, 2017. 
PROPOSAL
 ( a) as per the powers vested by Para (b) of Sub-section (l) of Section 147 which should be read with the Section 149 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that the Sabha has proposed to impose and recover 
a permit fee on any business mentioned in the first column and permit fee mentioned in the second column of the 
following Schedule for the year 2018. In addition, stamp duty of 10% of permit fee will also be recovered. 
 ( b) To order and direct to pay the said permit fee to Pradeshiya Sabha before 31st of March, 2018 by the person who 
conducts the industry in case of any industry existed as at 31st of December,  2017.
 ( c) Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha further propose that the said permit fee should be paid to Pradeshiya Sabha by the person 
who conducts the industry within a period of 03 months from the date of commencement in case of industry which 
was started in the year 2018.
schedule 01
PerMit fees
  1st Column  2nd Column
 
 Serial  Type of the Business  Annual  Annual  Annual 
 No.   income not  income  income over 
   exceeding   From Rs. 751 Rs.1,500
   Rs. 751 to Rs. 1,500 
 
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01  Maintenance of a place of accomodation   500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 02  Maintenance of a hotel  500  0 750  0  1,000  0 
 03  Maintenance of a boutique of rice/hotel or tea/coffee shop 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 04  Maintenance of a bakery 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 05  Maintenance of a firm of producing confectionery and cooked items 500  0  750  0  1,000  0  
 06  Maintenance of a herd of cows  and place of selling milk products  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 07  Maintenance of a place of selling fish  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 08  Maintenance of a place of Selling meat 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 

<!-- page 52 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1696
 09  Maintenance of a laundry 500  0  750  0  1,000  0  
 10  Maintenance of a private market  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 11  Maintenance of a saloon/place of hair dressing  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 12  Maintenance of a place of manufacturing cool drinks 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 13  Maintenance of a butcher house 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 14 Mobile business 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 15 Maintenance of a hotel/guest house/restaurant approved                Permit fee of 1% of previous year’s income
  by Tourist Board 
s chedule  01
Dangerous Business :
 01 Production/storing/sale of explosives 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 02 Storing/sale of agro chemicals 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 03 Storing/sale of gas 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 04 Maintenance of a metal quary 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 05 Maintenance of a blacksmith's workshop of casting and  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
  manufacturing iron
 06 Maintenance of a place of making products using coir fiber 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 07 Maintenance of a place of electro plating 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 08 Maintenance of a place of producing and burning earthen ware 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
Unpleasant Businesses :
 01 Maintenance of a place of collecting or selling used  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
  newspapers/iron/bottles/plastic
 02 Maintenance of a place of selling ornamental animals 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 03 Maintenance of a place of raring chicken for meat or eggs 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 04 Maintenance of a farm of goats or pigs 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 05 Maintenance of a hear of lactating cows 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 06 Maintenance of a center of grinding rubber 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
Unpleasant and Dangerous Businesses :
 01 Maintenance of a place of collecting storing rubber 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 02 Maintenance of a place of collecting or storing tea powder 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 03 Maintenance of a place of collecting or storing timber dust 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 04 Maintenance of a place of charging/selling batteries 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 05 Maintenance of a place of producing/storing/selling crackers 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 06 Maintenance of a place of painting clothes 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 07 Maintenance of a place of storing/selling used tyre and tubes 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 08 Maintenance of a place of producing/storing/selling copra 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 09 Maintenance of a place of producing/storing/selling coir fiber 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
11–671/7
  1st Column  2nd Column
 
 Serial  Type of the Business  Annual  Annual  Annual 
 No.   income not  income  income over 
   exceeding   From Rs. 751 Rs.1,500
   Rs. 751 to Rs. 1,500 
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 53 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1697
P ASGoDA    PrADeShIy A    SABhA  
Imposition of Industrial t ax for the year - 2018
NOTICE
by virtue of the powers vested in the Secretary of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 09(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,            
No. 15 of 1987, it is hereby notified that following decision was taken under decision No. 2075 on 11th day of October, 2017. 
 r. dinusha laKMali,
 Secretary and Officer of Implementing  Powers and Functions,
 Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
 Urubokka.
head Office of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
11th day of October, 2017. 
ProPosal
as per the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by Sub-section (l) of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 
of 1987, it is hereby notified that,
 ( a) The Sabha has proposed to impose and recover an Industrial Tax on any industry mentioned in the first 
column and amount of tax based on the annual valuation of such industry as mentioned in the second column 
of the following Schedule for the year 2018. 
 ( b) In case of any industry which existed as at 31st of December 2017, the above tax should be paid to the 
Pradeshiya Sabha by the person who conduct such industry before 30th of June 2018.
 ( c) It is further notified that in case of any industry which started in the year 2017, the above tax should be paid 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha by the person who conduct such industry within a period of three months from the 
commencement of such industry. 
industrial taxes 
  1st Column  2nd Column
 
 Serial  Type of the Business  Annual  Annual  Annual 
 No.   income not  income  income over 
   exceeding   From Rs. 751 Rs.1,500
   Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500  
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01  Maintenance of a place of storing or burning lime 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 02  Maintenance of a factory of making plastic/fiber glass products  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 03  Maintenance of a place of drying and processing arecanut  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 04 Maintenance of a place of producing treacle/juggery 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 05 Maintenance of an ordinary blacksmith workshop 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 06  Maintenance of a place of making artificial/natural leather products  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 07 Contribution of a place of producing papadam  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 08 Contribution of a place of producing cinnamon oil and citric oil 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 09 Maintenance of a place of crushing metal manually for selling 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 10 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing plastic products  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 11 Maintenance of a place of producing ice cream  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 

<!-- page 54 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1698
 12 Maintenance of a place of cultivating mushrooms for sale 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 13 Maintenance of a factory where gas is used 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 14 Maintenance of a carpenter workshop 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 15 Maintenance of a quarry 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 16 Maintenance of a place of selling fireworks 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 17 Maintenance of a place of producing yoghurt 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 18 Maintenance of a place of processing rubber using power machines 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 19 Maintenance of a lime kiln 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 20 Maintenance of a place of processing tobacco leaves  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 21 Maintenance of a poultry farm  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 22 Maintenance of a place of producing cement items  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 23 Maintenance of a poultry farm (cocks) 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 24 Maintenance of a place of processing rubber by hand machines and  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
  fumigating 
 25 Maintenance of a place of producing sigars/beedi  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 26 Maintenance of a place of producing and storing copra 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 27 Maintenance of a place of producing motor vehicle number plates  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 28 Maintenance of a place of producing and storing coir 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 29 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing products using coir/other  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
  type of fiber
 30 Maintenance of a place of producing tea boxes or wooden boxes  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 31 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing furniture 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 32 Maintenance of a place of weaving cloths by hand machines 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 33 Maintenance of a place of weaving cloths by power machines  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 34 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing joss sticks 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 35 Maintenance of a tin workshop 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 36 Maintenance of a place of printing cloth desings 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 37 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing metal items using machines  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 38 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing or storing cast items  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 39 Maintenance of a plant nursery for sale 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 40 Maintenance of a place manufacturing/selling ornamental products or  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
  hand crafts 
 41 Maintenance of a place of producing envelopes 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 42 Maintenance of a place manufacturing brooms and doormats 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 43 Maintenance of a place of digging sand for sale 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 44 Maintenance of a place of producing and selling acids  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 45 Maintenance of a place of framing photographs 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 46 Maintenance of a place of collecting old metal plates 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 47 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing boxes of matches  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 48 Maintenance of a temporary business place at carnival grounds  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 49 Maintenance of a place of charging batteries  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 50 Maintenance of a place of spray painting  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 51 Maintenance of a place of electro plating  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 52 Maintenance of a place of fumigating rubber 500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
 53 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing and burning bricks  500  0  750  0  1,000  0 
11–671/5
  1st Column  2nd Column
 
 Serial  Type of the Business  Annual  Annual  Annual 
 No.   income not  income  income over 
   exceeding   From Rs. 751 Rs.1,500
   Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500  
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 55 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1699
mA t ArA     munIcIPAL     councIL
Imposition of permit fees on hotels, places of 
accommodations approved by the Board of t ourism for 
the year - 2018
by virtue of powers vested Section 286A of by Municipal 
Council Ordinance under Chapter 252 of Legislative 
Enactment Code of Ceylon, I, Senaka Palliyaguruge, 
Municipal Commissioner hereby notify under Section 247A 
of Municipal Council Ordinance that it was decided under 
decision No. 2370 dated 03.08.2017 to impose and recover 
a permit fee of 1% of the income of the year previous to 
the year for which the prmit is obtained for the year 2018 
from hotel or guest house approved or registered at Tourist 
Board for the purposes of Tourist Development Act,                                 
No. 14 of 1968. It is further notified that such permit shoudl 
be obtained before the 31st day of March, 2018.
 
senaKa Palliyaguruge,
 Municipal Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Matara.
Office of Municipal Council of Matara, 
27th October, 2017.
11–696/1
–––––––––––––––
mA t ArA    munIcIPAL    councIL
Imposition of t axes on undeveloped 
Lands for the year 2018
by virtue of powers vested by Section 286A of Municipal 
Council Ordinance - Chapter 252 of Legislative Enactment 
Code of Ceylon, I, Senaka Palliyaguruge, Municipal 
Commissioner hereby notify under Section 247D I of 
Municipal Council Ordinance that it was decided to 
consider any land as developed land if 3/4 (7 1/2) of that 
land is developed and in other cases to impose and recover 
a fee of 1% up to Rs. 200,000 of the present valuation for 
the undeveloped portions and point Five (0.5%) for every 
exceeding value for the year 2018 under decision No. 2374 
dated 03.08.2017.
 
senaKa Palliyaguruge,
 Municipal Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Matara.
Office of Municipal Council of Matara, 
27th October, 2017.
11–696/5
mA t ArA    munIcIPAL    councIL
Imposition of t axes on t emporary and Permanent 
Advertisement Boards for the year 2018
by virtue of powers vested by Section 286A of Municipal 
Council Ordinance - Chapter 252 of Legislative Enactment 
Code of Ceylon, I, Senaka Palliyaguruge, Municipal 
Commissioner hereby notify that it was decided under Sabha 
decision No. 2376 dated 03.08.2017 Sub statute published 
by Gazette notification No. 541/17 dated 20.01.1989 made 
by Ministry of Local Government under Section 2 (Sub 
Statute) of Local Government Athorities No. 6 of 1952 has 
been accepted by General Meeting held on 10.02.2004 and 
09.09.2008 and accordingly to impose and recover fees in 
obtaining a permit for advertisement boards according to the 
sub statute mentioned in part II thereof as mentioned in the 
following Schedule for the year 2018.
 1. To recover Rs. 75 for one sq. feet from advertisement 
boards published at their business venues only 
mentioning the name of such business (trade name) 
by business places and institutions in the town. 
 2. A fee of Rupees 200 should be paid for one sq. feet 
from advertisement boards published at business 
venues or outside using the name of international and 
island wide multi national companies and business 
names of business venues in the town. 
 3. To recover a fee of Rupees 25.00 for one sq. feet 
for a period of one month for banners and cutouts 
temporary displayed with the area of Municipal 
Council of Matara for the year 2018.
 
senaKa Palliyaguruge,
 Municipal Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Matara.
Office of Municipal Council of Matara, 
27th October, 2017.
11–696/7
–––––––––––––––––––
mA t ArA    munIcIPAL    councIL
Imposition of t axes on Sale 
of Lands for the year 2018
by virtue of powers vested by Section 286A of Municipal 
Council Ordinance - Chapter 252 of Legislative Enactment 

<!-- page 56 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1700
Code of Ceylon, I, Senaka Palliyaguruge, Municipal Commissioner hereby notify under Section 247F of Municipal Council 
Ordinance that it was decided to impose and recover a tax of 1% of the total sale value of any land situated within the limits 
of Municipal Council of Matara and sold by an auctioneer, broker or his servant for the year 2018 under decision No. 2375 
dated 03.08.2017.
 
senaKa Palliyaguruge ,
 Municipal Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Matara.
Office of Municipal Council of Matara, 
27th October, 2017.
11–696/6
––––––––––––––––
mAtArA   munIcIPAL   councIL
Imposition of Business Permit fees for the year 2018
b y virtue of powers vested by Section 286A of Municipal Council Ordinance - Chapter 252 of Legislative Enactment Code 
of Ceylon. I, Senaka Palliyaguruge, Municipal Commissioner hereby notify under Section 247A of Municipal Council 
Ordinance that it was decided under decision No. 2371 dated 03.08.2017 to impose and recover a permit fee the year 2018 as 
mentioned in the 2nd Column of the following Schedule from businesses or business premises mentioned in the 1st Column 
and that should obtain a permit as ordered by Sub statutes published in Gazette notification No. 541/17 dated 20.01.1989 
accepted by General meeting held on 09.09.2008 and 10.02.2004. It is further notified that such permit should be obtained 
before the 31st day of January 2018.
 
senaKa Palliyaguruge ,
 Municipal Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Matara.
Office of Municipal Council of Matara, 
27th October, 2017.
SChEDULE
 1st Column   2nd Column II
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs. 
 01  Raring animals like pigs  950  1,200  2,000  
 02  Sale of fish  800  1,200  3,000  
 03  Sale of meat  950  1,200  4,000  
 04  Places of hair dressing and saloon  700  900  2,000  
 05  Maintenance of a laundry  500  800  1,000 
 06  Laces of accomodation  2,000  3,000  5,000 

<!-- page 57 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1701
 07  hotels  1,200  2,450  5,000 
 08  Maintenance of a boutique of rice  900  1,700  2,500 
 09  Maintenance of a hotel  900  2,200  5,000 
 10  Tea and coffee boutiques  700  1,200  2,000 
 11  Maintenance of a herd of lactating cows and sale of curd  700  1,200  2,000 
 12  Maintenance of a bakery or sale of bakery products 950  1,700  3,000 
 13  Funeral halls  and purpose related to funeral  1,200  2,300  5,000 
 14  Maintenance of an ice factory  1,200  2,300  5,000 
 15  Sale of vegetable and fruit 700  950  1,500 
16. It is hereby published that following industries or businesses are categorized as hazardous industries or businesses for 
the purposes mentioned in Section 147 of Municipal Council Ordinance - Chapter 252. 
 01  Manufacture of fertilizer  950  2,300  5,000 
 02  Storing fertilizer  950  2,300  5,000 
 03  Storing leather  700  2,250  5,000 
 04  Storing over 5 hundred weights of Maldives fish  700  2,250  5,000 
 05  Maintenance of a chicken farm  950  1,700  3,000 
 06  Blasting rocks and mining cabok  1,700  2,700  5,000 
 07  Mining gravel  700  2,250  5,000 
 08  Maintenance  of a place of raring cattle  700  1,200  1,500  
 09  Maintenance of an animal clinic  950  2,250  3,250  
 10  Making rubber 700  1,200  1,700  
 11  Storing gunny bags in which manure or lime were packed  700  2,250  3,250  
 12  Maintenance of a place or shed where over 10 sheeps or  700  1,700  2,200  
  goats or both are kept     
 13  Manufacturing tiles, concrete pipes or  other concrete materials  1,200  2,300  3,200  
 14  Storing lime  700  1,700  2,200  
 15  Storing over 5 hundred weights of Bombay onions  700  1,700  2,200  
 16  Storing over 5 hundred weights of potatoes  700  1,700  2,200  
 17  Storing over one hundred pounds of coconut char  500  700  950  
 18  Fumigating cinnamon, cardamom or fiber  700  950  1,200  
 19  String metal  700  2,250  3,250  
 20  Storing  over  25 hundred pounds of cement  700  1,700  3,500  
 21  Storing over 10 hundred pounds dried fish  950  1,200  1,700  
 22  Grinding or drying remain of rubber products  700  1,200  1,700  
 23  Maintenance of a boutique for sale of killed and processed  950  1,700  3,000  
  animals including chicken     
 24  Production of glue  950  1,200  1,700  
 25  Production of anti germs stuff or detergent 700  1,700  2,200  
 26  Maintenance of a firm for filling batteries or storing batteries 700  950  2,500  
 1st Column   2nd Column II
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs.

<!-- page 58 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1702
 27  Maintenance of a firm for rebuilding tyres  or making  700  1,200  2,000  
  stripes on tyres     
 28  Maintenance of a place of vulcanizing tyre or tubes  700  1,200  2,000  
 29  Storing over 100 of empty bottles  700  1,200  2,000  
 30  Storing over one hundred weights of cinnamon outer cover  950  1,100  1,400  
 31  Manufacturing or /and string coffins  950  2,300  5,000  
 32  Manufacturing or /and string furniture  950  2,300  3,300  
 33  Gem cutting and polishing by gem traders  950  2,300  500  
 34  Storing rubber by permitted traders  950  2,300  3,300  
 35  Storing concrete or earthen pipes  950  1,200  2,000 
 36  Maintenance of a factory of weaving cloth using machines  1,200  1,700  3,500 
 37  Maintenance of a grinding mill or rice mill  700  1,700  3,500 
 38  Storing over 20  hundred weights of animal food except poonac  700  1,700  2,200 
 39  Storing over 01 tons of grains for other purposes  except  animal food  950  1,700  2,200 
 40 Manufacture of  rubber products  700  2,250  3,250 
 41  Manufacturing and storing polythene, cellulose or Perspex 1,200  2,700  500 
 42  Storing over 5 galloons of acid  700  1,200  1,700 
 43  Production of boot shoes or shoes  950  2,300  3,300 
 44  Production of candles  700  950  1,200 
17.  It is hereby published that following industries or businesses are categorized as dangerous industries or businesses for 
the purposes mentioned in Section 147 of Municipal Council Ordinance - Chapter 252. 
 01 Timber mill operated by steam  water or  other  mechanical power  1,700 2,700 5,000 
 02  Production of cool drinks  700  2,250  3,250  
 03  Maintenance of a  shed of copra  700  1,700  2,200  
 04  Production of coconut oil using machines  950  1,700  3,000  
 05 Storing over 50 galloons  of coconut oil  950  2,300  3,300  
 06  Storing mentholated spirit  950  2,300  3,300  
 07 Production of acetylene  950  2,300  3,300 
 08  Maintenance of a yard or store for storing over 500 roofing tiles 950  2,300  3,300  
 09  Maintenance of a place of  950  2,300  4,000  
  storing over 250 bricks and/or selling metals and sand    
 10  Storing over 5 hundred weights or paints or varnish  950  2,300  5,000  
 11  Production of coir  700  1,200  1,700  
 12  Storing over 100 gunny bags except gunny bags in which  950  2,250  3,250  
  fertilizer or camphor were packed     
 13  Storing over 150 of used tyre or tubes  700  1,700  2,200  
 14  Storing coal over  one hundred weight except coconut coals  950  1,700  2,200  
 15  Production of wooden boxes  700  1,700  2,200  
 16  Maintenance of a firm except a workshop of oxygen and  800  2,250  3,250  
  welding works or garage of iron and metal works    
 1st Column   2nd Column II
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs.

<!-- page 59 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1703
 17  Maintenance of a firm except a workshop of oxygen and   800  1,700  2,200  
  welding works or garage of iron and metal works     
 18  Maintenance of a firm of repairing motor vehicles  800  1,700  3,500  
 19  Maintenance of a firm of servicing motor vehicles  1,200  2,300  5,000  
 20  Maintenance of a printer operated by mechanical power 900  2,250  4,000  
 21  Storing used garments  700  1,200  1,700  
 22  Maintenance of a yard or store for storing over  54.5l of  coconut  2,000  3,000  5,000  
  oil or other type of oil (including diesel, petrol and kerosene oil)     
 23  Manufacture of paints or varnish  1,500  2,500  5,000 
 24  Manufacture and/or storing coir or wool 700  1,700  2,200 
   mattresses or pillows or cushion     
 25  Storing over 150 new tyres or tubes  1,200  2,300  5,000 
 26  Storing over 250kg of used papers 700 1,200 1,700
 27 Maintenance of a place of spray painting  950  2,200  3,000 
 28  Maintenance  of a firm for mechanical refrigerators  950  2,250  3,250 
 29  Maintenance of  a firm of sewing garments using mechanical  500  2,050  5,000
  powers  
   
18. It is hereby published that following industries or businesses are categorized as dangerous Industries or Businesses for 
the purposes mentioned in Section 147 of Municipal Council Ordinance - (Chapter 252). 
 01 Maintenance of a firm of dry cleaning 700 950 1,200
 02 Maintenance of a firm of electro plating, painting of chromium,  950 1,700 2,200
  painting of silver and copper for which mechanical power is 
  not used 
 03  Maintenance of a firm which is  not a garage  and  doing  700  2,250  3,250  
  electro plating, for  which mechanical power is used    
 04  Ruining mixed metal  800  2,250  3,250  
 05  Storing fire works items  700  1,700  2,200  
 06  Storing over 02  kg. of explosives  700  2,250  3,250  
 07  Production of floor polish  700  2,250  3,250  
 08  Maintenance of a firm  for distilling tar  700  2,250  3,250  
 09 Maintenance a  firm  for repairing,  reconditioning   950  2,300  3,300  
  or inspecting refrigerators     
 10  Maintenance of  a firm of selling chemicals  700  2,250  3,250  
 11  Maintenance of  a tin workshop  700  950  1,200 
11–696/2
 1st Column   2nd Column II
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs.

<!-- page 60 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1704
mAtArA   munIcIPAL    councIL
Imposition of Industries tax for the y ear - 2018
b y virtue of powers vested by Section 286A of Municipal Council Ordinance - Chapter 252 of Legislative Enactment Code 
of Ceylon, I, Senaka Palliyaguruge, Municipal Commissioner hereby notify under Section 247B of Municipal Council 
Ordinance that it was decided under decision No. 2372 dated 03.08.2017 to impose and recover a tax mentioned in the 
second Column on industries functioning within the area of Municipal Council of Matara and mentioned in the first column 
of the following Schedule for the year 2018. It is further notified that the such tax should be paid before the 30th day of June 
2018. 
 
senaKa Palliyaguruge,
 Municipal Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Matara.
Office of Municipal Council of Matara, 
27th October, 2017.
 1st Column   2nd Column
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs. 
 01  Maintenance of a studio  1,500  2,500  3,000  
 02  Maintenance  of a place of selling tyre and tubes (Less than 1500)  1,500  2,500  5,000  
 03  Maintenance of a place of selling cigarettes at whole sale  2,000 3,000 5,000  
 04  Maintenance of a cushion workshop  1,000  1,500  2,000  
 05  Maintenance of a place of hiring festive items 1,500  2,500  5,000  
 06 Maintenance of a place of repairing scales and scale measurements 800 1,100 1,400
 07 Maintenance of a hardware 1,000 1,500 3,500
 08 Maintenance of a textile shop 1,500 3,000 5,000
 09 Motor spare parts shops 2,000 3,000 5,000
 10 Furniture shops 1,200 2,500 5,000
 11 Shoe shops 1,200 3,000 4,000
 12 Book shops 1,200 2,500 4,000
 13 Maintenance of a place of selling cassette, radios, watches, video 1,200 2,300 3,300
 14 Maintenance of a place of repairing cassette, radios, watches,  900 1,500 2,000
  video
 15 Motor bicycle trade centers 2,000 3,000 5,000
 16 Maintenance of a place of taping songs 700 1,000 1,600
 17 Bicycle trade centers 1,000 2,250 3,250
 18 Fancy goods shops 1,500 2,500 3,500
 19 Maintenance of a place of selling cool drinks over one gross 1,000 1,700 2,200
 20 Cool drinks shops (snack bars) 1,200 1,500 2,000
 21 Local and foreign liquor shops 2,000 3,000 5,000
 22 Electrical equipments shops 1,500 3,000 5,000
 23 Ceramic ware shops 1,000 2,300 3,300

<!-- page 61 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1705
 24 Places of making lorry boards  1,000  1,700  2,700  
 25 Sewing machine shops  900  2,250  3,250  
 26 Places of hiring loud speakers  900  1,200  2,000  
 27  Places of framing and selling pictures  800  1,200  1,400  
 28  Maintenance of a tailor shop  500  800  1,200   
 29  Gems shops  2,000  3,000  5,000  
 30  Ayurvedic medicine shops  600  1,000  1,200   
 31  Places of selling western drugs  1,500  3,000  5,000  
 32  Motor vehicle shops  2,000  3,000  5,000  
 33  Maintenance of a place of maintaining flat glasses  1,000  2,300  3,300  
 34  Maintenance of a place of manufacturing or repairing musical  700  1,200  1,700  
  instruments
 35  Maintenance of a place of manufacturing shoes or leather products  800  1,700  2,700  
 36  Maintenance  of a place of selling ready made garments  2,000  3,000  5,000  
 37  Maintenance of a rice mills or milling  machines  or  1,000  3,000  5,000  
  manufacturing or selling spare parts     
 38 Maintenance of a place  of selling water pipes / sewage 1,000  2,300  3,300  
  drainage /equipments used for toilets    
 39  Maintenance of a place  of selling  fancy  goods/milk powder/ 2,000  3,000  5,000 
  plastic products /stationery/school items/perfumes     
 40 Place  of  selling  and /or repairing parts of watches  1,200  2,000  3,200  
 41  Place of  repairing watches  500  1,000  1,200   
 42  Place of storing and  selling fishing equipments  1,000  2,250  3,250   
 43  Keeping ornamental  fish for sale 550  1,000  1,500   
 44  Repair of type writers and ronio machines  550  1,000  1,200   
 45  Maintenance of a  place  of photocopying using machines  800  1,000  1,500   
 46  Maintenance of a place  of manufacturing boards  using 1,000  1,500  2,000   
  plastic, fiber glass and metal      
 47  Maintenance of a  place  of manufacturing /storing polythene  1,500  3,000  5,000  
  for sale 
 48  Maintenance  of a  place  of taping I selling and / or hiring videos 1,000  1,500  2,000   
 49  Designing and selling of spectacles  2,000  3,000  5,000   
 50  Maintenance of a place of providing X rays and/or laboratory  2,000  3,000  5,000  
  testing
 51  Maintenance of a dental clinic  900  2,250  3,250   
 52  Maintenance of a place of repairing different  types  of machineries  900  1,700  2,700   
 53  Maintenance of a place of making/storing or selling coconut timber  800  1,100  1,200   
 54  Storing and sale of sanitary goods  2,000  3,000  5,000 
 55  Sale of bicycle spare parts  1,500  2,500  4,000 
 56  Maintenance of a place  of dressing brides  800  1,000  2,000 
 57  Maintenance of an agency post office  2,000  3,000  5,000 
 58  Maintenance of a place  of designing hair styles or flower  1,000  1,500  2,000 
  decorations
 1st Column   2nd Column
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs. 

<!-- page 62 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1706
 59  Maintenance of a place of proving  1,500  2,000  3,500 
  telephone /photocopies/ fax services (Communication)     
 60  Maintenance of a telephone box  1,000  1,200  1,500 
 61  Maintenance of a place of selling ornamental flower plants or tress 1,000  1,200  1,500 
 62  Maintenance of a place of selling iron or steel or plastic products 1,500  2,000  4,000 
 63  Maintenance of a place of selling or repairing computers  1,500  3,000  5,000 
 64  Providing printing service using computers (Typesetting)  900  1,200  1,800 
 65  Making buffels  550  950  1,200 
 66  Sale of medical equipments  1,500  3,000  4,000 
 67  Sale of motor cycle spare parts  1,500  2,500  4,000 
 68  Maintenance of a place of selling aluminium pipes /gutters etc.   1,200  1,500  2,500  
 69 Manufacturing TV antenna  1,000  1,500  2,500   
 70  Sale of radio  and television spare parts 1,000  1,200  2,400   
 71  Maintenance of a place of  900  1,200  2,200  
  selling offering items including Atapirikara      
 72  Maintenance of a place of selling refrigerators and deepfreezers 2,000  3,000  5,000  
 73  Maintenance of a telephone shop  2,000  3,000  5,000  
 74  Repair of telephones  550  950  1,200  
 75  Maintenance of a  place of selling electronic spare parts  1,000  1,400  4,000  
 76  Maintenance of a place of selling three wheelers spare parts 1,500  2,500  4,000  
 77  Maintenance  of a  place  of selling  air  conditioners  and 1,500  3,000  5,000  
  washing machines      
 78  Sale of nails  800  950  1,200  
 79  Sale of cement bricks  950  1,200  3,500  
 80  Sale of building materials  1,200  2,200  5,000  
 81  Providing venues for festivals  1,200  1,700  5,000  
 82  Providing ronio and/or Sinhala, English type writing service  500  700  1,000  
 83  Maintenance of a place of selling natural or  artificial  550  800  1,000  
  bread related products     
 84  Maintenance of a place of enlarging photographs  550  900  2,500 
 85  Maintenance of  a place  of selling school equipments (stationeries)  550  900  2,000 
 86  Maintenance of a place of whole sale of stationeries  1,200  2,300  5,000 
 87  Maintenance of a place of selling vehicle cushion  1,000  2,200  4,000 
  cloths and other materials      
 88  Maintenance of a place of selling empty barrels and plastic shells  800 1,000  1,500 
 89  Maintenance of a place of selling thread, buttons, lace etc.  800  1,000  2,000 
 90  Maintenance of a place of hiring electricity generators  800  1,000  2,000 
 91  Maintenance  of a  place  of selling sport items  800  1,000  2,000 
 92  Maintenance of a newspaper agency 900  1,200  3,500 
 93  Maintenance of a place of hiring loader backhoe machines, dozers,  1,200  3,000  5,000 
  motor grator, compactors, tractors and concrete mixtures .     
 94  Rs. 1000 from each temporary sale who come to town from out side – – –  
 1st Column   2nd Column
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs. 

<!-- page 63 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1707
 95  Sale and repair of electronic weights and measuring 800  1,000  2,500 
 96  Maintenance of a firm of cleaning service involved in 1,000  2,700  5,000 
  government  or private institutions     
 97  Maintenance of a place of selling newspapers and magazines 500  950  1,500 
 98  Maintenance  of a place of providing private security services  1,000  2,700  5,000 
 99  Maintenance of a place of selling tourist air tickets  1,000  2,700  5,000 
 100  Sale of leather or artificial leather products (bags)  800  1,000  2,000 
 101  Sale of computer or photocopy machine spare parts  1,000  1,150  2,000 
 102  Packing and sale of offering items and treasures  500  800  1,200 
 103  Maintenance of a place of charging cellular telephone bills  2,000  3,000  5,000 
 104  Sale of  artificial or natural flowers  500  900  2,500 
 105  Place of tinting glass, making name boards and sale of raw  500  900  1,500 
  materials      
 106  Sale of sewing machine spare parts  950  1,100  1,450 
 107  Maintenance  of a  state  or private bank  1,000  3,000  5,000 
 108  Maintenance of an insurance company  1,000  3,000  5,000 
 109  Maintenance of a driving learning school  1,000  3,000  5,000  
 110  Maintenance of a computer training institute  1,000  3,000  5,000  
 111  Maintenance of a medical specialist service  1,000  3,000  5,000   
 112  Maintenance of an agency post office  1,000  3,000  5,000  
 113  Maintenance of a foreign employment agency  1,000  3,000  5,000  
 114  Maintenance of a sales agency of se Maintenance of selling  1,000  3,000  5,000  
  or distributing cool drinks, biscuits, milk powder or other 
  consumer products     
 115  Maintenance of an audit firm  1,000  3,000  5,000  
 116  Maintenance of an accounting firm 1,000  3,000  5,000  
 117  Maintenance of a finance company  1,000  3,000  5,000  
 118  Maintenance  of a private property sales company  1,000  3,000  5,000  
 119  Maintenance of a ready made garment factory  1,000  3,000  5,000  
 120  Maintenance of a factory of manufacturing motor 1,000  3,000  5,000  
  vehicle spare parts or other machineries using machines.      
 121  Batting centers functioning at night  1,000  3,000  5,000  
 122  Maintenance of a  firm  of architecture or draughtsman 1,000  3,000  5,000  
 123  Manufacturing or sale of pantry cupboards 1,000  2,300  3,300
 124  Places of selling rubber related mattresses  800  1,200  2,500
 125  Sale of fly wood or fly wood products  2,000  3,000  5,000  
 126  Sale of old vehicle spare parts  1,000  2,200  5,000  
 127  Place of selling roofing sheets  2,000  3,000  5,000  
 128  Maintenance of a  place  of providing internet facility  1,000  2,300  3,000  
 129  Maintenance of an office of astrology  450  900  1,500  
 130  Maintenance of a transmission tower  2,000  3,000  5,000  
 131  Maintenance of a place of selling pieces of cloths  450  900  1,200  
 1st Column   2nd Column
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs. 

<!-- page 64 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1708
 132  Maintenance of a place of providing business  800  3,000  5,000  
  management consultation or acting as a service agent      
 133  For a telephone box functioning at public places in the town  1,000  2,700  4,200  
 134  Sale of vehicle cables and nails etc.  700  1,200  2,000  
 135  Sewing and sale of curtains  950  1,200  2,500  
 136  Pringing on ornamental goods 1,000  1,700  2,700  
 137  Storing and selling wall tiles and floor tiles  2,000  3,000  5,000  
 138 storing and selling of asbestos roofing sheets and ceiling sheets 2,000 3,000 5,000
 139 Entering students for foreign institutes 2,000 3,000 5,000
 140 Maintenance of a place of selling handcrafts  450  900 1,500
 141 Sewing training school 1,100 1,700 2,700
 142 Sale of jactes 800  1,200 2,000
 143 Storing and selling barrels of tar 1,000 2,250 5,000
 144 Maintenance of a place of editing video 1,000 2,250 3,300
 145 Maintenance of a place of selling ancient goods, ornamental  1,000 1,200 2,000
  products, silver and brass (old products)
 146 Sale of spare parts of refrigerators and air conditioners 1,000 2,000 3,000
 147 Production of soap 700 1,200 5,000
 148 Sale of perishable food items (except vegetable and other food 
  items relevant to hotel permits)
  (i) Whole sale 1,200 3,000 5,000
  (ii) Retail sale 800 1,200 2,000
 149 Repair of radios 500  950 1,200 
 150 Maintenance of a place of selling fire wood 450 700 1,000
 151 Maintenance of a place of sellig over 20 bundle of tobacco 600 1,700 2,200
 152 Maintenance of a place of repairing bicycles 550 1,000 1,200 
 153 Maintenance of a place of packing and selling tea powder 700 1,700 2,200
 154 Maintenance of a place of keeping LP gas for sale 800 1,700 5,000
 155 Maintenance of a place of selling carbide 700 1,700 2,200
 156 Maintenance of a place of painting or batik cloths 700 1,200 2,000
 157 Maintenance of a place of pasting and fixing break liners 800 1,200 2,000
 158 Maintenance of a place of storing or selling different types of  700 2,250 3,250
  machineries
 159 Maintenance of a place of selling products made of nickel, iron, brass 900 1,700 3,000
 160 Maintenance of a place of washing negatives of film roles 900 1,200 3,500
 161 Maintenance of a place of selling camera equipments 900 1,700 2,500
 162 Maintenance of a place of producing or sewing schools bags 850 1,700 2,200
 163 Maintenance of a place of selling agricultural equipments or  2,000 3,000 5,000
  electricity generators or water motor
 164 Maintenance of a place of string or distributing toffees and biscuits 2,000 3,000 5,000
 165 Maintenance of a place of repairing photocopiers or computers 900 1,200 1,500
 166 Maintenance of a grocery 1,000 1,750 2,500
 167 Maintenance of a fitness center using machines 1,500 2,500 3,500
 1st Column   2nd Column
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs. 

<!-- page 65 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1709
 168 Maintenance of a place of making mushrooms for sale 450 900 1,200
 169 Maintenance of a place of selling fabric paints or raw materials  900 1,200 1,700
  used for batik
 170 Maintenance of a place of selling raw materials needed for fiber  900 2,250 3,250
  production
 171 Maintenance of a electrical workshop 900 1,200 2,500
 172 Maintenance of a place of hiring iron scaffold for building  1,000  1,700  4,000 
  construction
 173 Maintenance of a place of hiring building construction equipments  1,200 3,000 4,200
  and machineries
 174 Maintenance of a dental clinic 800 2,250 3,250 
 175 Maintenance of a place of selling earthen ware  550 800 1,200
 176 Maintenance of a place of making keys 550 800 1,500
 177 Maintenance of a place of filling gas into vehicles and cylinders 700 2,250 5,000
 178 Maintenance of a place of repairing shoes 550 950 1,200
 179 Maintenance of a job net 1,100 2,250 3,250
 180 Sale of engine oil 1,200 2,250 3,500
 181 Maintenance of a cinema hall 1,200 2,250 5,000
 182 Maintenance of a place of a private hospital with residential  1,000 2,250 5,000
  facilities
 183 Maintenance of a place of producing or repairing jewellery 1,000 2,500 5,000
 184 Maintenance of a place of selling three wheelers 1,200 2,700 5,000
 185 Maintenance of a place of selling aluminium or plastic products 1,200 1,700 2,500
 186 Maintenance of a place of selling television/refrigerators/deep 1,000 3,000 5,000
  freezers/electric equipments
 187 Maintenance of a place of Digital printing 1,200 2,200 4,000
 188 Maintenance of a place of selling materials needed for small  950 1,200 1,700
  children
 189 Maintenance of a place of making invitation cards and small cake 700 1,200 2,000
  boxes
 190 Maintenance of a place of selling gift items 1,000 2,000 3,000
 191 Maintenance of a place of selling mobile phones accessories  950 1,700 2,200
 192  Sale of treacle  950  1,700  2,200  
 193  Maintenance of a place de Maintenance  of a place of  1,200  1,700  2,200  
  designing plaques     
 194  Maintenance  of a place of selling raw materials needed  1,200  2,500  4,000  
  for notice boards      
 195  Maintenance of a place  of designing computer soft ware 1,200  1,700  3,000  
 196  Maintenance  of a  place  of grocery bags, cardboard boxes  1,200  1,700  2,200   
 197  Maintenance of a place of selling and installing camera systems  1,000  2,000  4,000  
 198  Maintenance of a place  of selling equipments needed for  1,000  1,500  2,000  
  producing jewellery      
 1st Column   2nd Column
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs. 

<!-- page 66 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1710
 199  Sale of equipments needed for hanging curtains  1,000  1,500  2,000  
 200  Maintenance  of a place of hiring wedding suits  500  1,000  2,000  
 201  Maintenance of a place of protecting vehicles for fees  1,000  1,500  3,000  
 202  Maintenance of a place of bending  and  cutting  1,000  2,000  4,000  
  plates using machines      
 203  Maintenance of a place of making wedding cakes 1,000  1,500  2,000  
 204  Manufacturing machines using solar power 1,000  2,000  3,000  
 205  Maintenance of a lathe machine  1,200  2,200  4,000 
 206  Sale of saloon equipments  1,000  1,500  2,000 
 207  Maintenance of a surf board training school  1,000  2,000  4,000 
 208 Maintenance of a coconut shed 500  1,000  1,500 
 209  Maintenance of a place of storing and selling  2,000  2,500  5,000 
  aluminium and plastic doors      
 210  Maintenance  of a place of accepting advertisements 750  1,500  2,500 
   for any business purpose
 211 Production or sale of bottle drinking water 800  1,200 2,000 
 212 Sale of raw materials need for manufacturing of shoe 1,000 2,000 4,000 
 213 Place of selling saree 1,100 1,750 2,500
 214 Sale of spare parts of motor cycles and three wheelers 1,000 2,000 4,000
 215 Sale of selling filled oxygen tanks 2,000 3,000  5,000
 216 Place of storing timber for sale 2,000 3,000 5,000
 217 Production and sale of Buddha Statues 750 1,000 1,800
 218 Maintenance of a teller machine for cash transactions 2,000 3,000 5,000
 219 Sale of aluminium gutters, roofing sheets 2,000 3,000 5,000
 220 Maintenance of a place of selling vehicle audio systems and 1,500 2,500 4,000
  vehicle decoration items
 221 Maintenance of a place of screen printing purposes 750 1,200 2,000
 222 Maintenance of a center of marketing promotion 2,000 3,000 5,000
 223 Manufacture and sale of rubber seals and polymer seals 750 1,000  1,500
 224 Maintenance of a indoor sport center that charge fees  1,000  2,000  3,000
 225 Sale of physical fitness food items 1,000  1,500 2,000
 226 Sale (retail) of L. P. Gas 1,000  1,500 2,000
 
11–696/3
–––––––––––––––––
mAtArA   munIcIPAL    councIL
Imposition of Business for the y ear 2018
b y virtue of powers vested by Section 286A of Municipal Council Ordinance - Chapter 252 of Legislative Enactment Code 
of Ceylon, I, Senaka Palliyaguruge, Municipal Commissioner hereby notify under Section 247C of Municipal Council 
Ordinance that it was decided under decision No. 2373 dated 03.08.2017 to impose and recover a tax mentioned in the 
 1st Column   2nd Column
   Due annual permit fee
 
 Type of Business  Annual income Annual income Annual income
  of the business of the business when of the business
  when not  exceeding Rs. 1,500 when 
  exceeding  and not exceeding   exceeding
  Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,500 Rs. 2,500 
  Rs. Rs.   Rs. 

<!-- page 67 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1711
second Column calculated on the income of previous year of businesses functioning within the area of Municipal Council 
of Matara and mentioned in the first Column of the following Schedule for the year 2018.
 senaKa Palliyaguruge ,
 Municipal Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Matara.
Office of Municipal Council of Matara, 
27th October, 2017.
SChEDULE
 1st Column    IInd Column
   Amount of tax according to income of the previous year 
 
  When  When  When  When  When  
  between between between between exceeding
  Rs. 6,000  Rs. 12,001 Rs. 18,751 Rs. 75,001 Rs. 150,000
  to to to to to 
  Rs. 12,000 Rs. 18,750 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 150,000
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01  Maintenance of a place of mortgage  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 02  Maintenance of a place of lending money  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 03  Maintenance of a business as a contractors  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 04  Maintenance of a place  of accepting funeral affairs  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 05  Maintenance of a business as a private bus owner  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 06  Maintenance of a business as a  company of   90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
  transporting goods       
 07  Maintenance of a business as a lottery agent  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 08  (i) Ayurvedic dispensary and  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
  (ii) Dispensary - Western        
 09  Production of jewellery  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 10  Maintenance of a place of accepting race bettings and 90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
  counting       
 11  Maintenance of a place of providing  venues for weddings 90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
  or other festivals or a catering service.       
 12  Maintenance of a place of forwarding wedding 90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
  proposals through computer technology      
 13  Maintenance of service of Notary/attorney - maximum  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 14  Maintenance of a Montessori  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 15  Maintenance of a private educational institute  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 16  Maintenance of a business of hiring motor vehicles 90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 17  Maintenance of a place of local or foreign money  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
  transfer on the basis of commission      
 18  Sale of treasury bills  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 19  Maintenance of a center of share holder agency  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
 20  Transfer and transportation of local and foreign goods  90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0 
  and documents
 21 Institutions which are not sport clubs but providing 90 0  180 0  360 0  1,200 0  3,000 0
  sport facilities for a fee
11–696/4

<!-- page 68 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1712
 PrADeShIy A   SABhA   PuttALAm
Imposing Business tax for the y ear 2018
by virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of 
Section 9 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, 
J. A. Somasiri Jayasingha, the secretary to the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby notify that I have 
decided to impose business tax for the year 2018 in respect 
of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam as 
follows under the resolution No. A91 dated 25.10.2017 in 
terms of the provisions of Sub-section (1) of Section 152 of 
the said Act. 
It is further notified that the said business tax imposed for 
the year 2018 should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha before 
30th April of the respective year. 
 
J. a. soMasiri Jayasingha, 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer 
 of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam 
under Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 
152 of the said Act, I do hereby determine that a business 
tax should be imposed for the year 2018 from each person 
who maintains, within the area of authority of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Puttalam in 2018, any business for which a license 
should not be obtained under provisions of any By-law 
made thereunder or any tax which is not required to be paid 
under Section 150 of the said Act, in case the receipts in the 
year 2017 of the said business fall within the limits of any 
object number indicated in the Column I, as per the rates 
specified in the corresponding Column II of the following 
schedule ; and 
 ( a) to order to pay the said tax before 30th April, 2018 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of any business 
maintained up to 31st December, 2017 by the 
person who is liable to pay such tax ; and 
 ( b) In case of any business initiated in 2018, the said 
tax should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha within 
a month from the date of such business is initiated, 
by the person who is liable to pay such tax. 
schedule i
Business Tax : 
 1. Running a business of manufacturing and selling 
musical instruments
 2. Running a business of buying and selling of export 
materials
 3. Running a business of manufacturing and selling 
coconut timber
 4. Running a business of drying and selling coconut 
powder
 5. Running a business of selling tires and tubes
 6. Running a business of selling wood carvings and fancy 
items
 7. Running a business of letting motor grader, bacco 
machine, dozers
 8. Running a retail business
 9. Running a vegetable stall
 10. Running a business of selling betel and arecanut
 11. Running a business of dress making
 12. Running a business of selling and repairing watches
 13. Running a flower stall
 14. Running a photo studio
 15. Running a business of selling fancy items and perfumes
 16. Running a business of retail and wholesale
 17. Running a business of weaving textiles
 18. Running a business of selling readymade garments
 19. Running a business of framing pictures and cutting 
glasses
 20. Running a business of supplying ceremonial items
 21. Running a business of making name boards
 22. Running a sales outles for selling bicycles or motor 
bicycles
 23. Running a sales outlet of vehicles
 24. Running a fruit stall
 25. Running a retail and vegetable stall
 26. Running a jewelery shop
 27. Commission agents
 28. Brokers
 29. Suppliers
 30. Lottery agents
 31. Vehicle sellers
 32. Employment agencies
 33. Financial institutes and banks
 34. Private hospitals
 35. Running a garment
 36. Running a race bookie
 37. Gem businessman
 38. Auditors
 39. Private property sellers
 40. Processing implanting materials by using coconut husk

<!-- page 69 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1713
 41. Selling agri equipment
 42. Centers for producing agro equipment
 43. Supplying vehicles on hired basis
 44. Auctioneers
 45. Pawn brokers
 46. Driving schools
 47. Insurance agents
 48. Private institutes where tuitions conducted
 49. Lawyers and Notary Public
 50. International and private schools
 51. Contractors
 52. Institutes where security services are provide
 53. Money lenders
 54. Designers of housing plans
 55. Agencies where business consultancy services are 
provided
 56. Cleaners
 57. Running a place where type setting services for Sinhala 
and English carried out
 58. Running a place for making telephone calls
 59. Running a place for eye checking and selling spectacles
 60. Running a place for selling cut pieces of textiles
 61. Running an institute for teaching Karate and Judo
 62. Running an astrologers office
 63. Running an agency for distribution of newspapers
 64. Running a record bar
 65. Running a place  for storing and selling books and 
stationeries
 66. Running a place for letting public speaking systems
 67. Running a business of selling fancy items and gift items
 68. Running a computer training classes
 69. Running a business of cutting blocks and rubber seals
 70. Running a sales outlet for selling textiles
 71. Running a grocery
 72. Running a day care center
 73. Running a business of a communication 
 74. Selling coconut (wholesale and retail)
 75. Running a business of selling electric equipment
 76. Repairing electric equipment
 77. Running a place for selling and repairing of mobile 
phones
 78. Running a business of selling king coconut, tender 
coconut and quid
 79. Marketing agent service (milk powder, biscuits)
 80. Running a retail and wholesale business
 81. Running a business of nurseries
 82. Running a place for selling agro seeds and manure
 83. Running a ceremonial hall
 84. Running a funeral service center
 85. Running a business center for selling plastic and 
aluminium ware
 86. Selling washrooms set and tiles
 87. Running a cinema hall
 88. Running a rice and grain stall
 89. Running a place for letting musical instruments
 90. Running a vehicle sale
 91. Running a physical fitness center
 92. Running a place for making art work
 93. Running video center
 94. Running a place for selling curtain materials
 95. Indian pilgrims
 96. Running a place for providing accommodation facilities
 97. Manufacture and selling of mosquito nets
 98. Running a business of timber transport
 99. Packing and selling of timber preservatives
 100. Running a business of manufacturing and selling of 
bags
 101. Providing music at ceremonies
 102. Providing services
 103. Selling bodies for lorries
 104. Selling hand tools and power tools
 105. Manufacturing and selling of local handicrafts
 106. Manufacturing and selling of incenses sticks
 107. Manufacture of gum
 108. Selling furniture made of M. D. G. Board
 109. Selling syrup or fruit juices
 110. Running a place for storing cement
 111. Running a place for storing building materials
 112. Running a place for storing hardware
 113. Running a place for selling clay products
 114. Running a cushion work
 115. Selling shoes
 116. Running a place for vulcanizing tires
 117. Running a place for repairing refrigerators
 118. Running a place for storing and selling firewood
 119. Running a place for selling glass
 120. repairing sewing machines
 121. Orchid cultivation 
 122. Running a place for repairing gas ovens
 123. Repair of radios, cassettes, televisions and computers
 124. Fuel transport services
 125. Manufacture of tea boxes
 126. Selling used garments
 127. Storing castoff newspapers or paper
 128. Running a place for selling funeral items
 129. selling brassware
 130. Container transport service
 131. Storing and selling left-over
 132. Letting wedding suits and jeweleries
 133. Running a center for checking vehicle smoke
 134. Telecommunication towers
 135. Running a business of selling computers
 136. Pipe borne water system and electrical services

<!-- page 70 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1714
 137. Running a place for manufacturing and selling of 
brooms and eckle brooms
 138. Selling plastic/timber furniture
 139. Pesticide controlling
 140. Making vehicles number plates
 141. Internet and computer games
 142. Advertisement services
 143. A business of computer related printing
 144. Selling sacred items
 145. Selling bicycles
 146. Selling oils
 147. Selling motor bicycles
 148. Selling spare parts of three wheelers
 149. Selling spare parts of bicycles
 150. Selling spare parts of motor bicycles
 151. Selling spare parts of vehicles
 152. Selling carpets
 153. Manufacturing and selling
 154. Anthurium cultivation 
 155. Manufacture and selling of wicks
 156. self-employment
 157. Selling spare parts of hand tractor
 158. Running a winkle
 159. Repairing hydraulic hose
 160. Supplying ice packets and watalappan
 161. Civil construction services
 162. Manufacturing and selling of electric bulbs
 163. A business of trimming vehicles
 164. Cab services
 165. Manufacturing and supplying of envelops
 166. Multiple services cooperative society
 167. Repair of refrigerators
 168. Repair of bicycles or motor bicycles
 169. Selling spare parts for paddy mills
 170. Wiring services
 171. Manufacturing and selling clay products
 172. Manufacturing and selling of coconut shell products
 173. Running a business of washing sand
 174. Manufacturing and selling of sports equipment
 175. Running a business of selling lotteries
 176. Selling vehicle batteries
 177. Selling vehicles
 178. Selling wood
 179. Marketing promotion programs
 180. Software manufacturing
 181. Maintaining nursery plants
 182. Selling CDs and DVDs
 183. Prawn farms
 184. Running a mobile trade
 185. Providing transportation services
 186. Running a business of marking statues
 187. Weight bridge
 188. Construction of tube wells
 189. Selling Grease
 190. Selling sacks
 191. Maintaining stores
 192. Auctioning
 193. Vehicle parking
 194. Running a printing press
 195. Selling coconuts
 196. Drying sea leeches and oysters
 197. Crop cultivation
 198. Labour supply services
 199. Selling prawns
 200. Coconut collection centers
 201. Maintaining ATM machine
 202. Running a pawning centre
 203. providing money transfer service
 204. Providing leasing service.
schedule ii
  Column I Column II
 Income received from the business in 2017 Rs. cts.
1. When not exceeding Rs. 6,000 No
2. When exceeding Rs. 6,000 but not exceeding 90 0
 rs. 12,000
3. When exceeding Rs. 12,000 but not exceeding 180 0
 Rs. 18,750
4. When exceeding Rs. 18,750 but not exceeding 360 0
 Rs. 75,000
5. When exceeding Rs. 75,000 but not exceeding 1,200 0
 Rs. 150,000
6. When exceeding Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
12–764/5
–––––––––––––––––
PrADeShIyA  SABhA  PuttALAm
Imposing Assessment tax for the year 2018
by virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) 
of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, 
J. A. Somasiri Jayasingha, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby notify that I 
have decided to impose Assessment Tax for the Year 2018 in 

<!-- page 71 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1715
respect of the area of Authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam 
as follows under the resolution No. A91 dated 25.10.2017.
 J. a. soMasiri J ayasingha , 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer 
 of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested under Sub-section (3) of 
Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and under 
Sub-section (1) of Section 146 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,   
No. 15 of 1987, I do hereby determine that the Assessment 
of the year 2017 in respect of all houses, Buildings, Lands 
and Tenements situated within the areas of Authority of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, should be adopted for the year 
2018 ; and
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) 
of Section 134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I 
do hereby determine that an annual Assessment tax of (6%) 
based on the aforesaid annual value should be imposed for 
the year 2018 ; and 
Further, I determine that the annual Assessment Tax for 
the year 2018 specified in the following Schedule should 
be paid before the date indicated against each quarter in the 
said Schedule to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam and if the 
annual Assessment Tax is paid in full before 31st of January 
of 2018 a discount of ten percent (10%) and in case the 
annual Assessment Tax for a quarter is paid before the date 
indicated in the third column a discount of five percent (5%) 
will be paid. 
schedule
 Quarter Due date of  Final date entitled for 
  payment a discount of 5%  
First Quarter 31.03.2018 31.01.2018
Second Quarter 30.06.2018 30.04.2018
Third Quarter 30.09.2018 31.07.2018
Fourth Quarter 31.12.2018 31.10.2018
11–764/1
PrADeShIyA  SABhA  PuttALAm
Imposing Acreage tax for the year 2018
by virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of 
Section 9 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, 
J. A. Somasiri Jayasingha, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby notify that I have 
decided to impose Acreage tax for the year 2018 in respect 
of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam as 
follows under the Resolution No. A91 dated 25.10.2017.
 
J. a. soMasiri J ayasingha , 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer 
 of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) 
of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and 
Sub-section (1) of Section 146 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, I hereby determine to adopt the verification 
enforced in the year 2017 for the year 2018 and by virtue of 
powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section 134 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987,
 ( a) to levy an annual Acreage tax of ten Rupees for the 
year 2018 for each five hectares of lands and every 
land exceeding five hectares situated within the 
area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam 
which have not been released from Acreage tax and 
prevailed under permanent or regular cultivation in 
terms of Section 135 of the aforesaid Act ; and 
 ( b) to levy annual Acreage tax of Fifty Rupees (Rs. 50) 
for each hectare in respect of each land more than 
five hectares in the area of authority of Puttalam as 
the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam 
has been published as a special area in the Gazette 
dated 10.03.1989 of Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka by the hon. Minister in charge of the 
subject of Local Government in terms of interim 
provision of Sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the 
aforesaid Act ; and 
 ( c) the tax should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha in 
four equal instalments before 31st March, 30th 
June, 30th September and 31st December in 2018.

<!-- page 72 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1716
Further, I determine that the annual acreage tax for the 
year 2018 specified in the following Schedule should be 
paid before the date indicated against each quarter in the 
said Schedule to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttlam and if the 
annual acreage tax is paid in full before 31st of January of 
2018 a discount of ten percent (10%) and in the case annual 
assessment tax for a quarter is paid before the date indicated 
in the third column a discount of five percent (5%) will be 
paid. 
schedule
 Quarter Due date of  Final date entitled for 
  payment a discount of 5%  
First Quarter 31.03.2018 31.01.2018
Second Quarter 30.06.2018 30.04.2018
Third Quarter 30.09.2018 31.07.2018
Fourth Quarter 31.12.2018 31.10.2018
11–764/2
––––––––––––––––
PrADeShIyA  SABhA  PuttALAm
Imposing charges  for the year 2018 in respect of 
Advertisements
by virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of 
Section 9 of he Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, 
J. A. Somasiri Jayasingha, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby notify that I have 
decided to impose Charges on Advertisement  for the year 
2018 in respect of the area of Authority of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Puttlam as follows under the resolution No. A91 dated 
25.10.2017.
 
J. a. soMasiri J ayasingha , 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer 
 of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
I do hereby determine that the following charges should be 
imposed for the year 2018 in respect of the Advertisements 
displayed within the area of Authority of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Puttalam.
 Rs. cts.
01. For display of a permanent notice board for 75 0
 a period of one year - per 01 st. ft.
02. Fabric or digital printing - for a period of  35 0
 03 months or less than 03 months - per sq. ft.
 
03. For advertisements created and dispalyed on  75 0
 walls or parapet walls
11–764/9
––––––––––––––––
PrADeShIyA  SABhA  PuttALAm
By-law on Lodges and Accommodation 
by virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of 
Section 9 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, 
J. A. Somasiri Jayasingha, the secretary to the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby notify that I have 
decided to impose license fees for the year 2018 within the 
area of authority of  Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam as follows 
under the Resolution No. A91 dated 25.10.2017 in terms of 
the provisions of Section 147 and Section 148 of the said 
Act.
Accordingly, it is hereby notified that every person who 
is liable to pay this tax in respect of utilizing any premises 
should obtain a license by paying relevant license fees within 
30 days from the date of utilizing this premises. 
 
J. a. soMasiri J ayasingha , 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer 
 of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of 
Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read 
with Section 147 and 149 of the said Act, I hereby resolve 
to impose  a license fee in respect of the issue of a license 
for the year 2018 authorizing a certain place or a premises to 
be utilized in the area of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam for any 
purpose referred to in the Column I as per the rates specified 
in the corresponding Column II of the same Schedule, for 

<!-- page 73 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1717
the year 2018 under the said By-law or a By-law made under 
the said By-law or a Standard By-law adopted by Pradeshiya 
Sabha Puttalam ; and 
In an instance where such place referred to in the Schedule 
is a hotel, a restaurant or a lodge registered with or approved 
and accepted by the Tourist Board in Sri Lanka under  Tourist 
Board Act, No. 14 of 1968, I hereby determine to impose 
and levy a license fee of one percent (1%) of receiving in 
the year 2017 from the said hotel, restaurant or lodge for the 
year 2018.
11–764/8
––––––––––––––––
PrADeShIy A  SABhA  PuttALAm
Imposing tax in respect of undeveloped lands for the 
y ear 2018 
by virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of 
Sub-section (1) of Section 153 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, to be read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, 
I, J. A. Somasiri Jayasingha, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties 
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby determine that 
Imposing Tax for the year 2018 in respect of undeveloped 
lands within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Puttalam should be as follows under Resolution No. A91 
dated 25.10.2017. 
 
J. a. soMasiri Jayasingha, 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer 
 of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam 
under Sub-section (1) of Section 153 of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 15 of 1987, to be read with Section 9.3 of the said 
Act, I do hereby determine that, in any land situated within 
the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam which is 
suitable for constructing buildings or suitable for permanent 
or regular cultivation. 
(a) If any building has not been constructed ; or
(b) If the said land is not used for permanent or regular 
cultivation ; or 
(c) If the land area actually used for constructing the 
buildings is less than the ratio of 1:4 (25%) out of 
full area of the land of the said land. 
Such land should be considered as an undeveloped land 
and to impose for the year 2018 an annual tax less than one 
percent (1%) out of the capital value of each land which 
have been deemed as an undeveloped land and the said tax 
should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam before 30th 
April, 2018.
11–764/10
––––––––––––––––
PrADeShIy A  SABhA  PuttALAm
Imposing tax on Selling lands for the y ear 2018 
by virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of 
Section 154 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to 
be read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Somasiri 
Jayasingha, Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam 
who execute powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya  
Sabha Puttalam do hereby determine that imposing of tax in 
respect of selling lands for the year 2018 within the area of 
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam as follows under the 
Resolution No. A91 dated 25.10.2017.
 
J. a. soMasiri Jayasingha, 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer 
 of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Section 154 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, J. A. 
Somasiri Jayasingha, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby determine that; in case 
of any land situated within the limist of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Puttalam is sold by an auctioneer, broker or his employee or 
agent in a public auction or whatever manner a tax equivalent 
to one percent (1%) of the amount received from the sale of 
such land should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam 
by the seller, auctioneer, broker or his agent. 
11–764/11

<!-- page 74 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1718
PrADeShIy A   SABhA   Putt ALAm
Imposing charges for the year 2018 in respect of Weekly fair 
by virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I,                     
J. A. Somasiri Jayasingha, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby notify that I have decided to impose charges on Mundel and Madurankuliya weekly 
fair for the year 2018 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam as follows under the Resolution          
No. A91 dated 25.10.2017. 
 
J. a. soMasiri Jayasingha, 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer  of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
I hereby decide that the charges set out in the following Schedule should be imposed and levied for the year 2018 
in terms of the weekly fair which has been made by the hon. Minister in charge of Local Government and published in 
Part IV(A) of the Extraordinary Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 520/7 dated 23.08.1988 and 
published in Part IV(A) of the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 648 dated 01.02.1991 to the effect 
that the said By-law should be implemented within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam which has been 
adopted by the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam at the general meeting held on 27.10.1989.
 Per Sq. ft. 
 Rs. cts. 
01. The trade conducted at the permanent building  15 0
02. The trade conducted at the temporary shop or place 10 0
 
11–764/12
––––––––––––––––
PrADeShIy A   SABhA   Putt ALAm
By-law on Itinerant Sale for the year 2018
by virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of he Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, J. 
A. Somasiri Jayasingha, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby notify that I have decided to impose charges for the year 2018 in respect of itinerant 
selling within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam as follows under the resolution No. A91 dated 25.10.2017 
in terms of the provisions of Section 147 and 149 of the said Act.
 
J. a. soMasiri Jayasingha, 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer  of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.

<!-- page 75 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1719
RESOLUTION
I hereby decide that the charges set out in the following Schedule should be imposed and levied for the year 2018 
in terms of the By-law on itinerant selling which has been made by the hon. Minister in charge of Local Government in the 
North Western Province and published in Part IV(A) of the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1663 
dated 16.07.2010 and subsequently published in Part IV(A) of the Extraordinary Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka No. 1703/18 dated 28.04.2011 to the effect that the said BY-law was passed at the North Western Provincial 
Council meeting held on 18.01.2011 and Part IV(A) and published in Part IV(B) of the Gazette of Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1733 dated 18.11.2011 to the effect that the said By-law should be implemented within the area 
of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam which has been adopted by the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam at the General meeting 
held on 27.09.2011. 
schedule
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value of the place
 Serial Nature of the itinerant sale Fee when Fee when Fee when
 No.  not exceeding exceeding Rs. 750 exceeding
   Rs. 750  but not exceeding  Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Selling king coconut and tender coconut 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 02. Selling grams, wade, murukku, bites packets 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 03. Selling electric equipment 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 04. Mushroom equipment 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 05. Selling textiles 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 06. Selling shoes 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 07. Selling fancy items 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 08. Selling flower nursery, vegetable and fruit nursery 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 09. Selling books and newspapers 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 10. Supplying building materials 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 11. Packeting and selling grains 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 12. Selling fruits and vegetables  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 13. Selling synthetic flowers 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 14. Mobile banking service 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 15. Selling sacred items including wicks, incense sticks 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 16. Selling lotteries 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 17. Selling watches 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
11–764/7
–––––––––––––––
PrADeShIyA  SABhA  PuttALAm
Imposing License fees for the year 2018
by virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I,                
J. A. Somasiri Jayasingha, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam do hereby notify that I have decided to impose License Fees for the year 2018 within the area of 
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam as follows under the Resolution No. A91 dated 25.10.2017 in terms of the provisions 
of Section 147 and Section 148 of the said Act. 

<!-- page 76 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1720
Accordingly, it is hereby notified that every person who is liable to pay this tax in respect of utilizing any premises 
should obtain a license by paying relevant license fees within 30 days from the date of utilizing this premises. 
 J. a. soMasiri J ayasingha , 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer  of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
I hereby decide that the charges set out in the following Schedule should be imposed and levied for the year 2018 
in terms of the By-law on unpleasant, dangerous, unpleasant and dangerous businesses which has been made by the hon. 
Minister in charge of Local Government in the North Western Province and published in Part IV(A) of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1663 dated 16.07.2010 and subsequently published in Part IV(A) of the 
Extraordinary Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 1703/18 dated 28.04.2011 to the effect that the said 
By-law was passed at the North Western Provincial Council meeting held on 18.01.2011 and Part IV(A) and published in 
Part IV(B) of the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1733 dated 18.11.2011 to the effect that the 
said By-law should be implemented within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttlam which has been adopted by the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam at the General meeting held on 27.09.2011. 
schedule no. i
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value of the place
 Serial Industry From Rs.  01  From Rs. 750 to Exceeding
 No.  to Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Hazardous Business :
 01. Manufacture and selling of murukku, wadei and bites packets 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 02. Running a place for selling dried fish 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 03. Manufacturing animal food 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 04. Manufacturing and selling of milk, yoghurt and ice cream 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 05. Running a business of tinning fruits, fish or other food stuff 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 06. Running a business of manufacturing syrups or fruit juices 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 07. Running a business of twisting ropes 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 08. Running a grinding mill 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 09. Gem cutting and polishing 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 10. Manufacturing and selling of plastic ware 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 11. Recharging and repair of batteries 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 12. A place for manufacturing timber furniture 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 13. Running a carpenter shed 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 14. Running a business of making concrete products 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 15. Running a place for storing ironware 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 16. Running a chemical laboratory 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 17. Running a dental or a place for making dentures 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 18. Running a business of cakes and sweets 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 19. Running a catering service 500  0 750  0 1,000  0

<!-- page 77 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1721
 20. Running a mechanically operated paddy mill 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 21. Running a place for curing leather 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 22. Running a business of manufacturing chemical manure or  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
  compost manure
 23. Processing and packeting spices 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 24. Mechanized manufacture of cement blocks 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 25. Manufacturing coconut or timber coal 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 26. Running a mechanized timber shop 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 27. Running a place for grinding coffee and grains 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 28. Running a place for making woodern models/carvings 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 29. Running a place for repairing vehicles (garage) 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 30. Running a business of beautifying brides 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 31. Running a place for painting vehicles 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 32. Running a place for storing leather 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 33. Running a retail shop and eatery 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 34. Running a business of manufacturing maldive fish 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 35. Running a veterinary hospital 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 36. Storing perishable food stuff for wholesale 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 37. Stroing dried fish, salted fish or jadi more than 105k.g. 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 38. Freezing, drying or making jadi by fish or meat 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 39. Drying tobacco 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 40. Manufacturing punnak 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 41. Making trunks 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 42. Storing new or old metal 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 43. Manufacturing brushes (other than tooth brushes) 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 44. Manufacturing tooth brushes 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 45. Collecting toddy 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 46. Manufacturing vinegar 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 47. Running a business of sawing timber 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 49. Manufacturing of paints or distemper 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 50. Fibre painting 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 51. Manufacturing leather products  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 52. Manufacturing baking powder 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 53. Manufacturing of gas mantle 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 54. Manufacturing potty 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 55. Manufacturing camphor 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 56. Manufacturing of writing ink, pressing ink, stencil ink 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 57. Manufacturing washing blue 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 58. Manufacturing sealing wax  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 59. Manufacturing perfumes 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 60. Manufacturing school chalks 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 61. Manufacturing tyres or tubes 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 62. Retreading tyres 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 63. Manufacturing cement 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 64. Manufacturing sand papers 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 65. Manufacturing or refilling of acids 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value of the place
 Serial Industry From Rs.  01  From Rs. 750 to Exceeding
 No.  to Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 78 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1722
 66. Cleaning and selling gunny bags used for packing manure,  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
  lime powder or other stuff
 67. Running a super market 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 68. Running an aquarium and nursery 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 69. Running a place for collecting milk 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 70. Dispensary of herbal medicines for fractures of bones 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 71. Running a place for manufacturing and selling brake liners 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 72. Running a place for packeting salt 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 73. Manufacturing  and selling of green porridge 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 74. Running a business of steaming and selling paddy 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 75. Supplying food and beverages and accommodation 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 76. Mushroom cultivation 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 77. Packeting and selling of tea leaves 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 78. Selling bakery materials 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 79. Running a retails shop and teas boutique 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 80. Repair of lawn mower 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 81. Running a coconut timber workshop 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 82. Salt production 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 83. Running a salt washing plant 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 84. Running a poultry farm  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 85. Soy food production  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 86. Manufacturing mackerel fish 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 87. Selling bakery products 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 88. Running a bakery 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 89. Running a beef stall 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 90. Running a farm  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 91. Running a pig farm  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 92. Running a saloon 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 93. Manufacturing noodles 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 94. Manufacturing toothpaste 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 95. Manufacturing jaggery 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 96. Selling fish  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 97. Selling pets 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 98. Running a slaughterhouse 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 99. Running an ice factory 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 100. Importing and exporting food items 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 101. Running a business for packeting ice cream  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 102. Maintaining private salt spit 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 103. Maintaining salt stores 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 104. Maintaining salty stores for chemical and fertilizer 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 105. Running a place for distributing salt packets or salt stocks 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 106. Selling ornamental fish  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 107. Farming fresh water fish  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value of the place
 Serial Industry From Rs.  01  From Rs. 750 to Exceeding
 No.  to Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 79 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1723
SChEDULE  No. ii
   Dangerous Businesses From Rs.  01  From Rs. 750 to Exceeding
    to Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Running an electrically operated press 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 02. Running a place for blasting and selling granite 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 03. Running a business of crushing granite by machines (Mattel crusher) 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 04. Running business of manufacturing silencers 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 05. Running a place for selling filled gas cylinders 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 06. For a place for repairing injector pumps 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 07. Running a business of blasting blocks of granites 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 08. Running a electrical workshop 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 09. Storing fireworks or crackers 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 10. Running a business of manufacturing stone monuments 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 11. Running a coir mill 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 12. Running a business of manufacturing copra 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 13. Running a place for repairing gas ovens 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 14. Running a business of selling indigenous medicine 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 15. Running a business of selling Western medicines (Pharmacy) 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 16. Manufacturing  of vegetable oil 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 17. Manufacturing  of coconut oil 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 18. Manufacturing  of storing matches boxes 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 19. Manufacturing  of methylated spirit 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 20. Manufacturing  of coir or other fibres 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 21. Manufacturing  of coir or other fibre products 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 22. Mechanized sawing of timber 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 23. Mining quartz or lime stones  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 24. Storing empty gunny bags or empty bottles 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 25. Repairing bicycles or motor cycles 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 26. Spray painting 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 27. Stain and steel workshop 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 28. A place for sharpening carbon saws 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 29. A place for winding motors 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 30. For a filling station  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 31. Storing straw 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 32. Manufacturing of rubber gloves 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 33. Running a spring workshop 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 34. Running a place for key cutting 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 35. Running a smithy 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 36. Salt stores 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 37. Repairing vehicles 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 38. Manufacturing coconut oil 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 39. Steel production  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 40. Running a tyre centres 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 41. Running a ricemill 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 42. Chopping coconut husks 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 43. Manufacturing boats 500  0 750  0 1,000  0

<!-- page 80 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1724
SChEDULE  No. iii
   Hazardous and Dangerous Businesses From Rs.  01  From Rs. 750 to Exceeding
    to Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Dry cleaning or dying of textiles 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 02. Fabric printing or dying bathik 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 03. Electroplating 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 04. Running a place for repairing motor cycles 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 05. Running a tin workshop 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 06. Building bodies for motor vehicles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Running a business of manufacturing mosquito coils 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Running a business of kilining lime of quartz 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Running a wharf workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Running a welding workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Running a business of manufacturing and selling of agro chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Running a place for washing motor cycles or three wheelers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Running a place for washing vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Running a place for selling building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Storing and selling left over (old iron, bottles) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Running a fibre workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Running a lathe machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Running a sales stall of metal copper, iron debris 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Running a business of nickel iron handrails 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Manufacturing oil or animal oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Running a business of processing codliver oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Mechanized crushing of iron 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Manufacturing or refilling of disinfectors, insecticides,  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  fungicides or pesticides
 24. Running a business of manufacturing battery water 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Running a business of copra products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Running a business of cutting coconut husks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27. Running a business of cutting brass letters 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28. Running a liquor bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29. Selling barbed wires and nets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. Running a business of manufacturing flower pots 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31. Manufacture of drinking water bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32. Running a business of manufacturing virgin oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33. Refining oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34. Repairing air condition machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. Transporting stone, sand and gravel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 
11–764/6
 
–––––––––––––––––––––
PrADeShIyA   SABhA ,  PuttALAm
Imposing Industrial tax for year 2018
by virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, J. 
A. Somasiri Jayasingha, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties of the 

<!-- page 81 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1725
Pradeshiya Sabha, Puttalam do hereby notify that I have decided to impose Industrial Tax for the year 2018 in respect of the 
area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam as follows under the Resolution No. A 91 dated 25.10.2017 in terms of the 
provisions of Sub-section (1) of Section 150 of the said Act.
 
J. a. soMasiri J ayasingha , 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer  of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
 ( a) By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 
to be read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I do hereby determine that, an Industrial Tax for the year 2018 on each 
industry carried out within the administrative limits of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam referred to in Column I in the 
following schedule as per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II should be imposed and levied ; and
 ( b) To order to pay the said tax before 30th April 2018 to the Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of any business maintained 
up to 31st December 2017 by the person who is liable to pay such tax ; and
 ( c) In case of any business initiated in 2018, the said tax should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha within a month from 
the date of such business in initiated, by the person who is liable to pay such tax. 
schedule
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value of the place
 Serial Industry From Rs. 01  From Rs. 750 to Exceeding
 No.  to Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Running a business of cutting coconut husk into pieces 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Running a business of manufacturing cool drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Running a business of manufacturing exercise books 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Running a business of manufacturing plastic water tanks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Running a business of manufacturing water bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Running a business of manufacturing electrical accessories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Running a business of manufacturing roofing tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Brick industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Running a business of manufacturing soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Running coir mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Running a business of manufacturing shoes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Running a business of manufacturing candles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Running a business of manufacturing papers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Running a business of manufacturing eco-friendly bags 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Running a business of manufacturing polythene products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–764/4

<!-- page 82 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1726
PrADeShIy A  SABhA  PuttALAm
Imposing Service charges for y ear 2018
b y virtue of powers vested in me under Sub Section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I  J. A. 
Somasiri Jayasinghe, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam to hereby notify that I have decided to impose service charges for the year 2018 in respect of the 
area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam as follows under the resolution No. A 91 dated 25.10.2017.
 J. a. soMasiri Jayasingha, 
 Secretary and Implementing Officer  of Powers and Affairs,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam.
Pradeshiya Sabha Puttalam, 
25th October, 2017.
RESOLUTION
I hereby determine to impose and levy license fees for the year 2018 by virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya 
Sabha under Section 26 of National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 amended by Act, No.56 of 1988 and inspection fee 
for Non vesting in terms of Section 49 (7) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, and to levy charges set out in the following Schedule by 
virtue of powers vested under housing and Urban Development Ordinance and housing and Urban Designing Ordinance.
schedule
 Column I Column II
 Description Fee levied
  Rs. cents
 1. Application fee for Environment license 100.00
 2. Inspection to fee as per the initial investment 
   fee (maximum 5,000.00)
 3. Application fee for the renewal of license 50.00
 4. Fee for Environment License 1,250.00
 5. Fee for building construction /addition of parts to existing buildings/re construction
 Area of the Floor Residence Commercial and other Purposes
 (meters) Rs. Cents Rs. Cents
Less than 45 500.00 1,000.00
45-90 1,500.00 2,000.00
91-180 2,500.00 3,000.00
181-270 3,500.00 4,000.00
271-450 4,500.00 6,000.00
451-675 5,500.00 8,000.00
676-900 6,500.00 10,000.00
901-1,225 7,500.00 12,000.00
Exceeding 1,225 7,500.00 12,000.00

<!-- page 83 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1727
06.  Nature of the Development Purposes Fees to be levied
 Construction of boundary Walls Residential Commercial and
 Parapet walls long ft other purposes per 01 long ft
  *  Outside the building limits Rs. 300.00 Rs. 400.00
  *  Within the building limits Rs. 500.00 Rs. 600.00
07 Fees for Street lines
 Application fee 100.00
 Deposit fee 100.00
 Certificate fee 600.00
08. Building application fee 500 00
09.  (a) Fines levied in respect of unauthorized constructions erected without obtaining formal license
 Nature of the development purpose Charges to be levied
 
 Construction of Buildings/ Residential Commercial and other Purposes
 addition of new part/re construction Per 01Sq.meters Per 01Sq. meters
 * Construction Level
 *  In case constructions are  Rs.200.00 Rs. 500.00
  completed only up to foundation Rs.300.00 Rs.1,000.00
  (foundation level)
 *  In case constrution are Rs. 400.00 Rs.1,500.00 
  completed only up to the roof 
  level (without a roof) 
 *  In case constructions are completed  Rs.500.00 Rs.2,000.00
  including the roof
 *  In case the construction is  Rs. 600.00 Rs.3,000.00
  entirely completed 
If the unauthorized construction is compatible with the  regulations of Urban Development Authority the plan will 
be approved by levying fines.
(a) The land area covered by the construction should be not more than 66 2/3  out of the land utilized for 
residential purpose.
The rear column of the land of the building should be left compulsorily without allowing to cut the light corner/
angle subject to an extent of ft.71/2
Utilizing the building without obtaining the certificate of compliance is an offense.
Certificate of compliance should be obtained during a period of one year from the date of obtaining the approval for 
the building. if the certificate of compliance is not obtained the period of obtaining compliance certificate should be extended 
by paying Rs. 500.00
10. Leying other charges by the Pradeshiya Sabha
 1. Fees for altering the name in the Aessment Register Rs. 300.00
 2. Fees for issuing certificate to the effect that Assessment taxes are not paid and to issue other extracts Rs. 100,00
11-764/3

<!-- page 84 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1728
GAmPoLA    urBAn  councIL   
Imposing of the council's Business License fees and Business t ax for the year 2018
IT is hereby notified that as per Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) and by virtue of the powers vested and subject to the 
limitations and conditions to impose licence/tax and other taxes by the Urban Council of Gampola in terms of the Section 
162, 163, 164, 165(a), (b) of the said Ordinance, a Resolution has been taken under the No.  2017-598 and dated 04.10.2017, 
an annual tax as mentioned in the Schedules described below, in relation to each industry listed in the said Schedules, based 
on the annual value of the said premises or earnings according to the previous year.
Furthermore informed, that the License Fees or the Taxes in respect of the y ear, 2018 shall be paid on or before the 
31st of March, in that y ear.
 
d. M. c. i. dissanayaKe,
 Secretary,
 Gampola Urban Council.
Office of the Urban Council, Gampola, 
26th day of October, 2017. 
LICENSE ChARGES LEVIED UNDER SECTION 164 AND 165B OF ThE URBAN COUNCILS ORDINANCE 
(ChAPTER 255)
schedule no. 01
  Column I  Column II
   Annual Value Annual value Annual Value
 No. Nature of Business do not exceeds from Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Maintaining a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Maintaining an eating house, tea, coffee boutique 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Maintaining a restaurant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Maintaining a lodge (accommodation) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Maintaining a hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Maintaining a dairy farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Maintaining a milk bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Maintaining a barbar saloon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Maintaining a fish stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Maintaining a meat stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Maintaining a fruits stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Maintaining a vegetable stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Maintaining a laundry   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Dangerous Business :
 01. Storage of flour, salt or sugar more than 750kg for wholesale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Readymade garment industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Business of printing press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Maintaining a poultry shed or farm more than 100 birds 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Maintaining a shed or farm keeping goats or pigs more than 40 heads 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Maintaining a storage for bricks or tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Maintaining a firewood yard 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 85 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1729
 08. Blasting granite using machines or hand 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Storage of cool drink bottles above 100 bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Making ice cream 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Brewing or storing coconut oil more than 300 liter 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Manufacturing box of matches or storage of boxes more than 100
  dozens 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Making or storage fibre and other fibre goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Storage of used clothes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Making or repairing gold jewelleries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Maintaining a hotel restaurant or guest house approved by or  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  registered in the Ceylon Tourist Board (for the year commenced)
 17. Mechanized saw mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Maintaining a mechanized factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Storage of empty bottles or sacks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Maintaining a workshop for repairing bicycles and motor bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Storage of used papers or used newspapers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Maintaining a spray painting workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Making or storing fireworks or crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Storage of vegetable oil other than coconut oil above 50 liters 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Storage of frozen meat or fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Maintaining a timber depot 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Unpleasant and Dangerous Business : 
 01. Processing Cinnamon, cloves, cardamom or fibers using chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Dyeing or dry cleaning 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Dyeing or textile printing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Maintaining a place for electro plating 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Kilning or processing lime stone or storing powdered lime 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Maintaining a place charging or repairing batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Maintaining a place repairing motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Maintaining a place servicing motor vehicles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Maintaining a melting workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Maintaining a place storing gas cylinders 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Maintaining a place manufacturing native herbal and 
  ayurvedic medicines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Storing glassware or glass sheets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Maintaining a plastic or fiber allied products factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Maintaining a place storing tea dust more than 150 kilogram 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Maintaining a welding workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Maintaining a workshop using lathe machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Maintaining a place storing petrol, diesel, oils or other mineral oils 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Producing or storing agro chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Repairing or servicing air conditioners, fridges or deep freezers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Maintaining an electrical workshop or manufacturing or repairing
  electrical equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Maintaining a milk chilling center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column I  Column II
   Annual Value Annual value Annual Value
 No. Nature of Business do not exceeds from Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 86 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1730
Unpleasant Business :
 01. Manufacturing or storing manure or chemical fertilizers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. A tannery or sale of leathers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Maintaining a photographic studio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Maintaining a veterinary clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Storing foods easily become damaged or meals for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Storing dried fish, salted fish or jadi more than 150 kilogram 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Making or storing charcoal or wood coal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Maintaining a place processing or storing tobacco 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Maintaining place storing or making animal foods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Making poonac or storing more than 200 kilogram 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Manufacturing soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Grinding or storing animal carcass 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Storing new or old metals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Maintaining a place storing metal scraps 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Making or storing household furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Making cane products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Maintaining a wood working center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Manufacture of syrups or fruit drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Manufacture of confectioneries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Manufacture of brushes (other than tooth brush) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Manufacture of tooth brushes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Tapping toddy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Making or storing vinegar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Maintaining of a mechanized or manual saw mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Storing more than 100 liter paints, varnish or distemper 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27. Manufacturing soda 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28. Making leather products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29. Canning fruits, fish or other food items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. Maintaining a grinding mill for grinding chillie, coffee, grains
  beans or provisions 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31. Manufacture of candles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32. Manufacture of camphor 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33. Manufacture of writing ink, printing ink or stencil ink 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34. Manufacture of ultra marine blue for clothes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. Manufacture of sealing wax 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36. Maintaining a place for producing or storing cosmetics and perfumes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37. Manufacturing school chalks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 38. Rebuilding tyres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39. Maintaining a place for vulcanizing tyres and tubes  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40. Storing more than 1000 Kilograms cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 41. Making cement or asbestos allied products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 42. Making plastic items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 43. Power loom 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column I  Column II
   Annual Value Annual value Annual Value
 No. Nature of Business do not exceeds from Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 87 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1731
 44. Cleaning and selling lime, flour or similar goods packed bags 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 45. Mechanized cement blocks making 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 46. Storing grains or beans more than 250 Kilograms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 47. Storing or selling asbestos and allied products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 48. Storing/selling liquid petroleum gas 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 49. Maintaining a beauty culture center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 50. Maintaining a place for making hair styles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
s chedule  02
   Annual Value Annual value Annual Value
 Serial Imposing Tax on certain Business and Professions do not exceeds from Rs. 750 exceeding 
 No. under Section 165 (a) of Urban Councils Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
  Ordinance (Chapter 255) Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Maintaining a Western Medical Center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Maintaining an ayurvedic medical center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Maintaining a place repairing and servicing three wheelers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Maintaining a tinkering workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Carving woods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Maintaining a place for making and selling iron grills 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Maintaining a place for making and selling brassware  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Maintaining a garment factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Maintaining a place hiring wedding dress and jewelleries  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Maintaining a place for training computers or typewriting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Maintaining a place providing telephone facilities  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Maintaining a place selling computers and computer accessories  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Maintaining a place repairing computers  500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 14. Maintaining a place selling mobile phones and phone accessories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Maintaining a place repairing mobile telephones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Maintaining a place providing photostats and fax services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. hiring loud speakers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Maintaining a place recording cassette tapes  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. hiring/selling cassette tapes/CD/video tapes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Maintaining a place selling motor vehicle spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Selling bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Sale of machinery spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Maintaining a place selling electrical equipments/sewing machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Maintaining a tailoring mart  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Maintaining a place selling cane products  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Specialist medical services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27. Maintaining a place selling eggs, milk and treacle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28. Breeding/selling ornamental fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29. Maintaining a place selling tea dust 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. Maintaining a place making denture  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31. Maintaining a dental clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column I  Column II
   Annual Value Annual value Annual Value
 No. Nature of Business do not exceeds from Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 88 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1732
 32. Maintaining a place selling sanitary ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33. Sale of tiles (marbles) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34. Making/repairing radiators 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. Maintaining a natural flower shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36. Sale of artificial flowers  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37. Sale of ornamental wearing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 38. Sale of audio visual equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39. Sale of disabled person’s equipments  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40. Maintaining a place cleaning vehicles interior with machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 41. Maintaining a cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 42. Maintaining a place selling wooden furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 43. Maintaining a place packing and selling food items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 44. Storing sand for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 45. Maintaining a coconut plank shed  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 46. Trading young coconuts/king coconuts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 47. Sale of fancy goods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 48. Packing/selling salt 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 49. Sale of Ayurvedic (herbal) medicine  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 50. Maintaining a place a pharmacy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 51. Maintaining a place framing pictures  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 52. Sale of beetle leaves/arecanuts/cigars 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 53. Sale of antique jewels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 54. Sale of pottery  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 55. Sale of broom stick/ekel broom/coir and allied products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 56. Maintaining a book shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 57. Sale of school items and newspapers  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 58. Maintaining a place selling gold jewelleries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 59. Maintaining a place hiring funeral articles and ceremonial goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 60. Maintaining a place selling water pumps and grinders   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 61. Maintaining a place making beedi and cigars 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 62. Making insane sticks and oil lamp thread  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 63. Sale of sacred offerings and atapirikara 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 64. Maintaining a place providing local employments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 65. Maintaining a place selling rexine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 66. Coconut trading 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 67. Maintaining a tea factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 68. Maintaining a place selling cut piece clothes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 69. Maintaining a place providing funeral arrangements 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 70. Maintaining a place providing astrological services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 71. Maintaining a place selling used televisions, radios and 
   electrical appliances 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 72. Processing and packing provisions 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 73. Maintaining a place selling spectacles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 74. Maintaining a place preparing name boards, rubber stamps 
   and stickers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 75. Maintaining a place manufacturing umbrellas 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 76. Maintaining green house  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column I  Column II
   Annual Value Annual value Annual Value
 No. Nature of Business do not exceeds from Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 89 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1733
 77. Trading medical equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 78. Maintaining a place selling licensed foreign liquor/beer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 79. Maintaining a place selling unlicensed toddy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 80. Maintaining a place selling unlicensed liquor 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 81. Maintaining a place processing alcohol (beer distillery) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 82. Trading glassware/aluminium ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 83. Trading fruit drinks/soft drinks/confectioneries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 84. Maintaining an office for draftsmanship 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 85. Maintaining a place selling polythene/wax sheet/rubberized goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 86. Maintaining an agency post office 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 87. Manufacture/sale of plaster of Paris 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 88. Sale of fiber allied goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 89. Concrete pre mix industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 90. Government approved lottery tickets sale  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 91. Maintaining a place hiring motor bicycles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 92. Maintaining a place hiring motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 93. Maintaining a rest house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 94. Maintaining an animal shed for making flesh  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 95. Maintaining a place repairing clocks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 96. Maintaining a retail trade shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 97. Maintaining a place purchasing minor export crop yields 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 98. Maintaining a place selling vegetable seeds and vegetable manure 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 99. Maintaining a place renting machinery plants 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 100. Maintaining a place selling cosmetics and creams 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 101. Producing/selling ice cream/yoghurt and frozen food items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 102. Sale of aluminium fittings and sheets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 103. Maintaining a place selling leather goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 104. Maintaining a place selling textiles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 105. Maintaining a place selling garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 106. Maintaining a place making wool and allied products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 107. Manufacturing exercise books 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 108. Maintaining a grocery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 109. A place telecasting cable television channels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 110. Sale of plastic household furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 111. Sale of radios/televisions  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 112. Sale of automotive batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 113. Sale of asbestos and roofing sheets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 114. sale of steel furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 115. Storing and selling coir or rubberized mattress 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 116. Sale of building materials (except powdered lime/cement/paints)   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 117. Maintaining a place selling lubricants 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 118. Maintaining billiard indoor sports 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 119. Sale of bakery products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 120. Sale of roasted grains, murukku and vade  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 121. Making selling mats and pillows 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 122. Sale of electrical equipments and parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column I  Column II
   Annual Value Annual value Annual Value
 No. Nature of Business do not exceeds from Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 90 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1734
 123. Purchase/sale of used machinery or parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 124. Making and repairing vehicle/machinery parts and cables 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 125. Repair of bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 126. Production/sale of plastic/polythene and allied goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 127. Re-cycling plastic/polythene/papers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 128. Production/sale of baby items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 129. Decoration of vehicles/sale of tools  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 130. Sale of gas cookers and materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 131. Sale of lathe goods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 132. Making/repairing/selling footwear and bags 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 133. Mushroom cultivation 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 134. Storing and selling bottled drinking water 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 135. Providing computer services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 136. Maintaining a body building center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 137. Sale of water filters 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 138. Embroidery work  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 139. Key cutting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 140. stainless steel workshop  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 141. Sale of gift items  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 142. Storing/selling new or old tyres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 143. Matrimonial services  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 144. A place of tenting for vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 145. Bathroom fittings and allied goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 146. Sale of musical instruments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 147. Sale of zinc sheet and allied products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 148. Maintaining a place selling agro chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 149. Sale of agriculture equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 150. Early childhood development centers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 151. Sale of paints and accessories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 152. Maintaining a foreign language training centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 153. Sale of pipeline accessories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 154. Centre of decoration for wedding ceremonies 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 155. Making tool kits for decorating vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 156. Sale of sports goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
SChEDULE – 03
i MPosing  t ax  on  B usiness  and  P rofessions  under  s ection  165 ( b) u rBan  c ouncils  o rdinance  (c haPter  255)
   Annual Income  Annual Tax to be paid 
    Rs. cts. 
 (i) Up to Rs. 6,000 Nil
 (ii) Exceeding Rs. 6,000 but not exceeding Rs. 12,000 90 0
 (iii) Exceeding Rs. 12,000 but not exceeding Rs. 18,750 180 0
 (iv) Exceeding Rs. 18,750 but not exceeding Rs. 75,000 360 0
 (v) Exceeding Rs. 75,000 but not exceeding Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
 (vi) Above Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
  Column I  Column II
   Annual Value Annual value Annual Value
 No. Nature of Business do not exceeds from Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 91 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1735
 1. Audit firm 
 2. Auctioneers 
 3. Transporting Service 
 4. Institute of Accountancy 
 5. Brokers 
 6. Money Lending business  
 7. Mortgage business 
 8. Insurance Agent Office 
 9. Lawyer/Notary tax 
 10. Surveyor 
 11. Contractors 
 12. Suppliers 
 13. Telephone Transmission Towers
 14. Institute of Foreign Employment  
 15. Selling Imported Motor Spare parts 
 16. Liquor (liquor shop/making and wholesale)
 17. Private Nursing homes 
 18. Wholesale of Cigarettes 
 19. Sale of telephone services and connections   
 20. Selling Motor Vehicles/Motor bicycles/Three wheelers 
 21. Conducting Public Telephone Booth
 22. Coducting an agent of horse race betting
 23. Conducting a Foreign travel agency
 24. Conducting a Sales Agent
 25.  Providing leasing facilities
 26. Maintaining a medical laboratory service
 27. Maintaining a place providing internet facilities
 28. Maintaining a private educational institute
 29. Maintaining a private security service
 30. Maintaining a cinema theatre
 31. Providing reception hall facilities
 32. Maintaining a firm providing business promotional 
activities
 33. Maintaining an emission testing place 
 34. Maintaining a driver training institute
 35. Maintaining an international school
 36. Buying and selling gems
 37. Purchase and sale of house and properties
 38. Business of civil engineering services
 39. Providing audit and tax reports through internet
 40. Providing advisory services on local and foreign 
monetary matters
 41. Paint mixing business
 42. Maintaining an indoor sports pavilion
 43. Storing imported fruits
 44. Providing imports and exports service
11-823/1
GAmPoLA   urBAn  councIL
t ax for Vehicles and Animals for the year 2018
iN terms of Section 163 of the Urban Council Ordinance 
(Chapter 255), I do hereby notify that I have decided to 
impose and levy a Tax who keeps vehicle and animal in their 
possession within the authority areas of Gampola Urban 
Council for the year 2018 mentioned in Schedule 04.
SChEDULE 04  
 Rs. cts. 
 1. Every Vehicle other than Motor Car, 
  Motor Bike, Three-wheelers,   25  0
  Cart, hand Cart, Rickshaw, Bicycle, 
  Tricycle
 2. Every Bicycle or Tricycle or Bicycle 
  car or Bicycle cart, Tricycle
  Car or Tricycle Cart
 ( a) If used on business purposes 10  0
 ( b) If used on non business purposes 5  0
 (i) For every cart 20  0
 (ii) For every hand cart 10  0
 (iii) For every Rickshaw 7 50
 (iv) For every horse, Pony or Mule 15  0
 (v) For every Elephant 50  0
 
d. M. c. i. dissanayaKe,
 Secretary,
 Gampola Urban Council.
Office of the Urban Council, 
Gampola, 
26th day of October, 2017. 
11-823/2
––––––––––––––
GAmPoLA   urBAn  councIL
Imposition of Assessment t ax for the year 2018
SChEDULE 06
BY virtue of power vested in Section 238 of the Urban 
Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255), read along with the 
Provisions of Section 166 of the Urban Councils Ordinance 
(Chapter 252), it is hereby notified to accept and implement 

<!-- page 92 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1736
the annual value assessed in the year 2008 and amendments 
made therein up to the year 2017, for the year 2018, under the 
Resolution No. 2017-598 of the Secretary, dated 04.10.2017.
 (i) Residential premises 6%
 (ii) Commercial premises 10%
 (ii) Non residential and non commercial 11%
For the areas newly annexed to the Urban Council : 
 (i) Residential premises 4%
 (ii) Commercial premises  8%
 (iii) Non residential and non Commercial 11%
Furthermore, the Assessment Tax should be payable on or 
before 31st of March, 2018, 30th of June, 30th of September 
and 31st of December, respectively and a surcharge of 20% 
in case of a commercial property and 15% in case of a 
residential and other properties will be levied on defaulted 
Assessment Tax under the Section 255 of Urban Council 
Ordinance.
A discount of 10% will be given if the Assessment Tax 
for the year 2018 is fully paid before 31st of January, 2018 
and a discount of 5% will be given, if the quarterly tax is 
paid within the first month of each quarter.
 
d. M. c. i. dissanayaKe ,
 Secretary,
 Gampola Urban Council.
Office of the Urban Council, 
Gampola, 
26th day of October, 2017. 
11-823/3
–––––––––––––
GAmPoLA  urBAn  councIL
Advertisements notice Board tax - 2018
SChEDULE - 5
it  is hereby notified that a Tax on Advertisements and 
Notice Boards, exhibited within the administrative limits 
of Gampola Urban Council, for the year 2018, under the 
Resolution No. 2017-598 of the Secretary to the Urban 
Council, Gampola, dated 04.10.2017, shall be imposed and 
levied as mentioned below.
Advertisement notices
01. For Exhibiting Textile Banners :
    Rs. cts.
   
 (i) For 03 days Per Square foot  35 0
 (ii) For 03 to 07 days Per Square foot  45 0
 (iii) For 07 to 14 days Per Square foot  55 0
 (iv) For 14 to 30 days Per Square foot  70 0
02. Drawing on Walls : 
 (i) For a year per Square foot  60 0
03. For Exhibiting a Permanent Trade  Advertisements :  
 (i) For a year per square foot 60 0
04. For Exhibiting Illuminated Advertisement Boards  
 (i) For a year per Square foot 150 0
An amount of Rs. 750.00 should be deposited as removing 
charges if the advertisement is not removed immediately 
after the time of permit expired.
05. Charging on Reservaiton of Land Areas for Promotional 
Activities
 (i) For a day per square foot 30 0
06. Charges on Parking Vehicles :
 Urban Council Other Places
 Authorized Daily
 Parking per month per hour
 Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 (i) Bus 300 0 50 0
 (ii) Lorry/Tractor 500 0 50 0
 (iii) Van/Car/Cab 500 0 30 0
 (iv) Tractor 250 0 50 0
 (v) Three Wheeler 300 0 30 0
 (vi) Motor Bicycle 100 0 10 0
In addition to this the Government Tax also should be 
payable if any. 
 
d. M. c. i. dissanayaKe ,
 Secretary,
 Gampola Urban Council.
Office of the Urban Council, 
Gampola, 
26th day of October, 2017. 
11-823/4

<!-- page 93 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1737
GAmPoLA   urBAn  councIL
Imposition of t ax on certain Land Sales 
iN terms of Section 165 (c) of the Urban Councils Ordinance, 
if a land is sold at a Public Auction or through other means 
by an auctioneer, a broker or their servants or agents within 
the administrative limits of Gampola Urban Council, a sum 
equivalent to the value of One percentum (1%) of the sale 
proceed be paid to the Urban Council.
Legal action will be taken in terms of Section 165 (c) 2 of 
the Urban Councils Ordinance, those who default.
 
d. M. c. i. dissanayaKe,
 Secretary,
 Gampola Urban Council.
Office of the Urban Council, 
Gampola, 
26th day of October, 2017. 
11-823/5
––––––––––––––––
GAmPoLA   urBAn  councIL
Levy of License charges based on previous year’s 
receipts under Section 164 of urban council ordinance 
(chapter 255) - 2018
it is hereby notified under Section 164 (2) of the Urban 
Council Ordinance, if a certain place utilized for the purpose 
of a hotel, restaurant or a lodge within the administrative 
limits of Gampola Urban Council in the event of a hotel, 
Restuarant or a lodge registered (under the Sri Lanka Tourism 
Development Act, No. 14 of 1968), by the Sri Lanka Tourist 
Board will have to pay one per centum 1% of the previous 
year’s income for the year 2018, and it is approved by the 
Resolution No. 2017-598, dated 04.10.2017.
 
d. M. c. i. dissanayaKe,
 Secretary,
 Gampola Urban Council.
Office of the Urban Council, 
Gampola, 
26th day of October, 2017. 
11-823/6
GAmPoLA   urBAn  councIL
Imposition of entertainment t ax 
IN terms of Section 2 (1) of the Entertainment Tax Ordinance 
No. 12 of 1946, the Entertainment Tax should be payable as 
mentioned below.
 ( a) A tax of 5% of the sold value of the entrance ticket 
issued by cinema theatres.
 ( b) A tax of 10% of the sold value of any other tickets, 
which is not issued for the purpose of entrance to a 
cinema theatre.
Actions will be taken under Section No. 14 of the 
Entertainment Ordinance, on sale of entry tickets without 
paying the said tax.
 
d. M. c. i. dissanayaKe,
 Secretary,
 Gampola Urban Council.
Office of the Urban Council, 
Gampola, 
26th day of October, 2017. 
11-823/7
––––––––––––––––
GAmPoLA   urBAn  councIL
Levy of Certificates/Application Forms and Other 
charges for the year - 2018
by  virtue of power vested in Gampola Urban Council under 
the Provisions of the Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter 
255), it is hereby notified that the charges mentioned in the 
Schedule 07, 08 and 09 shall be imposed and levied for the 
services provided by the Gampola Urban Council within 
its authority areas and issue of certificates and application 
forms, through the Resolution No. 2017-598 of the Secretary 
to the Urban Council, Gampola and dated 04th day of 
October, 2017.
Furthermore, it is hereby notified that the related charges 
will be valid from the date 01st of January, 2018 to the 31st 
day of December.
 
d. M. c. i. dissanayaKe,
 Secretary,
 Gampola Urban Council.
Office of the Urban Council, 
Gampola, 
26th day of October, 2017. 

<!-- page 94 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1738
SChEDULE 07
01. hiring Urban Council hall
    Rs. cts.
   
 (i) For Commercial purpose per day 6,500 0
 (ii) For non-commercial purpose per day 4,000 0
 (iii) For Dining hall per day 500 0
In addition to the above should be paid hall charges
 (i) For a working day  200 0
 (ii) For a holiday  300 0
02. hiring Library Auditorium
 (i) For Commercial purpose per day 6,000 0
 (ii) For non-commercial purpose per day 3,000 0
In addition to the above should be paid hall charges
03. Entry Fee to the Children Parks  10 0
04.  Application Forms/Certificates Letter Charges
 (i) Building Application form charges 700 0
 (ii) Application for Deed Draft Abstract (A.T.D.) 200 0
 (iii) Environment Certificate application 
  form charges  100 0
 (iv) Renewal Application form of Environmental
  Certificate  75 0
 (v) Street Line Certificate charges  1,200 0
 (vi) Bicycle License application form charges 15 0
 (vii) Bicycle License charges  5 00
 (viii) Certificate charges (Licence/shop rent/
  house rent) (for a year)  50 0
 (ix) Charges on issue of other certificates or 200 0
  letters
05. Slaughter house Charges
  Cattle  200 0
  Goat  100 0
  For Private Functions
  Cattle  500 00
  Goat/Sheep  250 0
If any taxes imposed by the Government, must added to 
the above rates.
SChEDULE 08
 Charges 
 per day
 Rs. cts.
 01. Only the Play Ground - for schools 
  (within Urban Council Limits) 3,500 0
  For other schools (out of Urban Council 6,000 0
  Limits)
  For International schools - per day 6,000 0
  For non schools 15,000 0
 02. Upper Portion of Air Conditioned Pavilion 7,000 0
  Deposit on using the upper portion of the 5,000 0
  pavilion
 03. Media Rooms 2,000 0
 04. Physicians Rooms 2,000 0
 05. Judges Rooms 2,000 0
 06. For the restroom 2,000 0
  hour charges on No. 03, 04 and 05 500 0
 07. Using playgrounds for physical fitness  
  (from 5.00 a. m. to 7.00 a. m.)
  Per person - for one month 200 0
 08. For training purposes - per hour
  Schools 200 0
  International schools 300 0
  Sports Clubs 400 0
 09. 1. For other play grounds other than 
   Veegulawatta play ground
   
  ( a) For sports Meet - per day  3,000 0
  ( b) For other activities - per day  5,000 0
 If any taxes(V AT) imposed by the Government, must 
added to the above rates.
 Monumental Charges Charge
  Rs. Cts.
Within Town Limits  10,000 0
Out of Town Limits  15,000 0
  Burial Charges
Within Town Limits  1,000 0
Out of Town Limits  1,500 0

<!-- page 95 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1739
 Cremation Charges Charge
  Rs. Cts.
Within Town Limits
2.00 p. m.    6,000 0
4.00 p. m.    6,000 0
6.00 p. m.    7,000 0
Out of Town Limits
2.00 p. m.    7,000 0
4.00 p. m.    7,000 0
6.00 p. m.    8,000 0
Cremation Charges through firewood Logs :
Within Town Limits/Out of Town Limits 3,000 0
Charges on Damaging Roads for laying Pipe Lines
01. Carpeted Road  2,500 0
02. Pre Mix  250 0
03. Concrete Road  150 0
04. Soil Road  40 0
Providing Water Bowsers
01. For water bowsers  800 0
02. Loading charges   100 0
03. Driver’s bata (apart duty hours only) 
04. For 1st km  200 0
05. For 2nd km   100 0
06. On Saturdays and Sundays   250 0
07. Service charges on areas out of Urban  3,000 0
    Council Limits 
08. Using Roads owned by the Urban Council  
 (Permitted sand/granite/soil) 
 Transporting 01 cube  200 0
 
If any taxes imposed by the Government (V AT), must 
added to the above rates.
SChEDULE 09
details of charges on gully Vehicle serVices
 For one unit of House within 
 the Town Limits Charges
  Rs. Cts.
 01. For first tank full load 1,500 0
 02. For every extra tank load 1,250 0
 03. Transporting charges per km 100 0
 04. Labour charges for first lavatory pit 1,500 0
Second lavatory pit 800 0
Third lavatory pit 700 0
Fourth lavatory pit 500 0
in addition to the above Rs. 400.00 will be charged 
exceeding every pit.
 05. Site charges 1,000 0
 For business places within  Charges
 town limit Rs. Cts.
 01. For first tank full load 2,000 0
 02. For every extra tank load 1,500 0
 03. Transporting charges per km 100 0
 04. Labour charges for first lavatory pit 1,400 0
  Second lavatory pit 1,000 0
  Third lavatory pit 800 0
  Fourth lavatory pit 600 0
In addition to the above Rs. 400.00 will be charged 
exceeding every pit.
 05. Site Charges 1,000 0
 For Religious Places Charges
   Rs. cts.
 01. For first tank load 1,000 0
 02. For every extra tank load 500 0
 03. Transporting charges per km. 100 0
 04. Labour charges for first lavatory pit 1,500 0
  Second lavatory pit 800 0
  Third lavatory pit 700 0
  Fourth lavatory pit 500 0
In addition to the above Rs. 400.00 will be charged 
exceeding every pit.
 05. Site Charges 1,000 0
houses/Government Institutions/Religious Places/
Business and others - out of Town Limits
  Charges
  Rs. Cts.
 01. For first tank load 4,000 0
 02. For every extra tank load 3,000 0
 03. Transporting charges per km 125 0
 04. Labour charges for first lavatory pit 1,500 0
  Second lavatory pit 1,000 0
  Third lavatory pit 800 0
  Fourth lavatory pit 700 0
In addition to the above Rs. 400.00 will be charged 
exceeding every pit.
 05. Site charges 1,000 0
11-823/8

<!-- page 96 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1740
AnurADhAPurA    munIcIPAL    councIL
Impose of revenues and License fees for the 
y ear - 2018
hEREBY I'm Ajantha Gunawardana, the Commissioner 
of Municipal Council Anuradhapura declare according 
to the constitution of Municipal Council Act, 286 (A) the 
following enlisted registry shows the respective nature of 
industries and businesses and their revenues and license fees 
will be imposed and recovered by the Municipal Council of 
Anuradhapura with effect from the year 2018. 
According to the constitution of the Municipal Council 
286(A), as it is read under the constitutional Act, 247(1)
(A) Sub-ordinance, and the empowered Municipal Council 
constitutions, if getting a license or under the Act, No. 
247AA(1) Sub ordinance any taxes are not want to pay 
means within the limits of Municipality in 2018 whoever 
running the business has to pay as it is in year 2017 in the 
Part I should be paid as in Part II for the year 2018 and it is 
confirmed and decided by me.
 
aJantha gunaWardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
The above mentioned Sub Registry
 Part I Part II
 Business profit in 2017  Rs. cts.
When not exceeding Rs. 6,000 Nil
Exceeding Rs. 6,000 but not exceeding 90 0
 rs. 12,000
Exceeding Rs. 12,000 but not exceeding  180 0
 Rs. 18,750 
Exceeding Rs. 18,750 but not exceeding  360 0
 Rs. 75,000 
Exceeding Rs. 75,000 but not exceeding 1,200 0
 rs. 100,000
Exceeding Rs. 100,000 but not exceeding  3,000 0
 Rs. 150,000 
Exceeding Rs. 150,000 5,000 0
Commercial Tax for the Year 2018 :
 1. Florist or flower showroom
 2. Wooden furniture and storing
 3. Recksin sale and storing
 4. Polythene sales and storing
 5. Shoe manufacture/sales and storing
 6. Bicycle repairing shop
 7. Tyres and tubes sales and storing
 8. Firewood sale centre
 9. Coir products storing and sale
 10. Mattress sale
 11. hardware sale (except roof tile/bricks/lime and paint)
 12. Paints and varnish sale and storing
 13. Printing press
 14. Motorcycles reconditioning and sale
 15. Battery storing and sale
 16. Radio/TV/camera repairs
 17. Motor vehicles sales and stores
 18. Spare parts sale and storing
 19. Old  motor spares and parts sale and storing
 20. Motorcycle/three wheel sale and spare parts sale
 21. Bicycle or bicycle spare parts sale
 22. Antiques and antique jewellery sale centre
 23. Pet fish or pets sale
 24. Lottery agent
 25. Beetle/arecanut sale
 26. Brassware sale
 27. Plastic products sale
 28. Books and stationeries sale
 29. Photo studio
 30. Telex and fax services centre
 31. Mobile phone sale centres
 32. Audio cassettes/recording/video cassette recording 
and sale
 33. Sounds hiring centres
 34. Newspaper/magazine sale
 35. Textiles sale shops
 36. Readymade garments
 37. Optical sale
 38. Video filming and video cameras hiring
 39. Window glass sale

<!-- page 97 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1741
 40. Photo framing centres
 41. Watch and clock repairing centres
 42. Scales repairing shops
 43. Weighing machines
 44. Rubber seal/name boards/plastic name boards making
 45. Cushion work centres 
 46. Race bookies
 47. Air ticketing and booking office
 48. Photo studios
 49. Agency post office
 50. Tailoring shop
 51. Electrical spare parts and applicances
 52. Gems and jewellers
 53. Sports goods and sportswear shops
 54. Plants nursery
 55. Computer sales centres
 56. Fancy items shop
 57. Motorcycle/and three wheel sale centres
 58. Motor cycle and three wheel sale
 59. Bicycle sale
 60. Ceramic and glassware sale
 61. Plumbing parts sale
 62. Communication centres
 63. Pawning centres
 64. Fisheries equipment sale
 65. Tractors and spares sale
 66. Musical instruments sale/manufacture and hiring 
 67. Old  motor spare parts sale
 68. Carving goods
 69. Software making and sale 
 70. Computer sale
 71. Cellphone repairs
 72. Cellphone recharge cards sale centres
 73. Internet and playstation centre
 74. Agri equipment and hand tractor sale
 75. Cosmetics/soap and powder storing and sale
 76. Commission Agents 
 77. Building contractors
 78. Money lenders
 79. Brokers
 80. Computer Training Center Owners
 81. Architects
 82. Driving Learning School Owners
 83. Finance investors
 84. Insurance agents and Insurance Companies
 85. Accountancy bureau
 86. Auctioneers
 87. Tourism Agencies
 88. Transporters
 89. Mortgage Agents
 90. Inland and overseas banks
 91. Foreign Money Exchange
 92. Transport service running
 93. Cleaning agencies
 94. Private Education Tuition Classes
 95. International schools
 96. Private Security Agents
 97. Foreign Employments Agency
 98. Banking Finance Agencies
 99. Veterinary clinics
 100. Data Technical Centres
 101. Insurance business
 102. Fitness centres gyms
 103. Running Private Bus service
 104. Radio/TV Agency company
 105. Courier service
 106. Guest houses run by internet overseas bookings
 107. Ticketing agency office (inland/overseas)
 108. Botanical and home garden equipment centre
 109. Software sales through internet centres
 110. Commercial activities
 111. Temporary car sale
 112. Shares business
 113. School science equipment sale
 114. Trained horse Riding
 115. Bee hive farming and industry
 116. Decorative Agents 
 117. Coach and coaching camp arrangements.
11-824/1

<!-- page 98 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1742
AnurADhAPurA    munIcIPAL    councIL
Impose of revenues and tax for Industries for the y ear - 2018
hEREBY I'm Ajantha Gunawardana, the Commissioner of Municipal Council Anuradhapura declare according to the 
constitution of Municipal Council Act, 286(A) and with this it should be read the constitutional Act, 247(AA)(1) the 
following enlisted registry shows the respective nature of industries and businesses and their revenues and license fees will 
be imposed and recovered by the Municipal Council of Anuradhapura with effect from the year 2018. 
Also with the constitutional Act of the Municipal Council 286(A) it should be read the constitution Act, No. 247(AA)
(1) and accordance with the power given to me, any industry or relevant businesses within the limits of Anuradhapura 
Municipal Council which is mentioned as Part I in the registry is entitled pay a tax as it mentioned in the Registry Part II for 
the year 2018 and so as I have decided. 
 
aJantha gunaWardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
ThE ABOVE MENTIONED SUB REGISTRY
 Part I  Part II
 Industry  Annual value
  Rs. 1,500  Rs. 1,500 exceeding Rs. 2,500 not
  not Rs. 2,500 not exceeding
  exceeding exceeding
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 
 1. Fertilizer storing /selling/manufacture 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 2. Cane products sale/storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 3. Shoes/storing/selling/manufacture 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 4. Fibre production and reconditioning  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 5. Beedi whole sale and production 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 6. Garment factory/dressmaking with 25 machines or more 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 7. Gold and silver jewelers or sale 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 8. Powerloom for cloth 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 9. Bricks/tiles or kiln for lime 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 10. Rebuild tyre industry 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 11. Batik sale and Manufacture 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 12. Artificial limbs manufacture 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
11–824/2
–––––––––––––––––––
 
AnurADhAPurA    munIcIPAL    councIL
Impose of License fees for the y ear - 2018
hEREBY I'm Ajantha Gunawardana, the Commissioner of Municipal Council Anuradhapura declare according to the 
constitution of Municipal Council Act, 286(A) the following enlisted registry shows the respective nature of industries and 

<!-- page 99 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1743
businesses and their revenues and license fees will be imposed and recovered by the Municipal Council of Anuradhapura 
with effect from the year 2018. 
Also the enlisted under mentioned registry items and their charges of the respective nature of industry and business 
have to be paid for Part I and Part II for the year 2018 is implemented by me as the empowered Commissioner of the 
Municipal Council of Anuradhapura. 
Under the Act, 1968 No. 14 of the tourist board and its approval given for reputed hotel, restaurant and resort when 
licenses are issued, these premises and from their income in 2017 as the license fee (1%) for the year 2018 is entitled and 
so as I have decided. 
 
aJantha  gunaW ardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
 Part I  Part II
   Annual value
 Empowered Business Type Rs. 1,500  Rs. 1,500 exceeding Rs. 2,500 not
  not Rs. 2,500 not exceeding
  exceeding exceeding
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 
 1. Running bakery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 2. Farming of cows/goats/pigs 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  Less than 5 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  More than 5 upto 10 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  More than 10 upto 20 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  More than 20 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 3. Milk bar or collection centre yoghurt processing or sales 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 4. Ice-cream and cool spot (sales) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 5. Tea-rooms and cafe 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 6. Restaurants for rice and other meals
  ( a) with liquor/without lodging 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  ( b) Without liquor/with lodging 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  ( c) License with both available 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 7. Under the tourist development Act  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  Registered by the tourist authority or approved hotels/
  restaurants/resorts and guest houses (if its inaugural year) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  (a) By running the above mentioned types of Sectors,  5,000 0 5,000 0 5,000 0
    1% of the total earning through service must be paid. 
    Minimum license fee is Rs. 5,000.
 8. Running approved guest houses/hotels/restaurants resorts  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  under the tourist development act and registered by 
  Tourist Authority
  (a) Supplying materials and furniture for festivals and  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
     catering services 
 9. Manufacturing fertilizer of storing and selling Running  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  a concrete blocks and concrete factory
  (a) Bricks/sand/tiles/lime storing and sales 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0

<!-- page 100 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1744
 10. Storing cement and selling 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 11. Maintaining a stores for rice, flour, sugar and dry Rations 
  for sales and wholesale business centres
  1. Retail 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  2. Provisions sales 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  3. Taste gram selling 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 12. Dry fish sales  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 13. Running a grocery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 14. Waste and disposable metal sales and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 15. Tyre/tubes re-built centres 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 16. Showroom for florists funeral services and florist  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  showroom
 17. Beauty culture salons and bridal parlours 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 18. Manufacturing steel/plastic furniture for sale and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 19. Grinding mills for chilly, coffee and grain 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 20. Selling chilly and spices powder 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 21. Animal fodder sales and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 22. Artifical leather (recksin) selling and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 23. Polythene selling/storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 24. Leather products sales, manufacturing/storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 25. Tea wholesale and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 26. Vegetables wholesale (market) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 27. Vegetables retail (market) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 28. Vegetables retail ordinary business 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 29. Fruits sale (market) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 30. Fruits sale (ordinary) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 31. Fish wholesale business
  1. Sea fish 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  2. Fresh water fish 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 32. Fish sale retail (market) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 33. Tobacco sales (market) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 34. Fish sale (out of market) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 35. Agro chemicals sales/storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 36. Sliced and packed meat sales (like keels food) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 37. Frozen meat or fish sales 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 38. Eggs sales and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 39. Gunny bags/old bottles and paper sales and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 40. Fruit drinks manufacturing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 41. Papadam manufacturing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 42. Sales of drinking water and bottling 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 43. sawing timber mills by machinery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 44. Sawing timber mills by hand 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 45. Running carpentry shop (manual) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 46. Running carpentry shop by machinery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 47. Fiber manufacturing and reconditioning  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 Part I  Part II
   Annual value
 Empowered Business Type Rs. 1,500  Rs. 1,500 exceeding Rs. 2,500 not
  not Rs. 2,500 not exceeding
  exceeding exceeding
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 101 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1745
 48. Running a carpentry workshop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 49. Extraction of coconut or sesame oil 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 50. Manufacturing centres for tobacco products 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 51. Wholesale of tobacco products and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 52. Sweets manufacturing or sales 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 53. Motor mechanical shop/garage/vehicles re-conditioning
  1. Residential area 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  2. Commercial area 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 54. Running a vehicles service stations 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 55. Motor-bike repair shop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 56. Extraction of coconut of sesame oil and storing  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  coconuts and coconut shells
 57. Block workshop or aluminium products manufacturing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 58. Spray painting centres 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 59. Barber saloon with 3 seats or less (G) more than 3 seats 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 60. Running a laundry or washing centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 61. Running a plating or chromium plating or gold plating 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  business and maintain such places
 62. LPG gas or gas storing and sales 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 63. Gun powder and fire crackers as a main business 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 64. Fabric printing or dying centres 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 65. Re-conditioning refrigerators workshop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 66. Kiln for lime powder production  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 67. Blacksmiths workshop (without machinery) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 68. Blacksmiths workshop (with machinery) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 69. Battery charging and re-conditioning  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 70. Battery sales, charging and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 71. Welding workshop 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 72. Bricks/roof tile/lime kiln running 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 73. Poultry farming 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 74. Risky industry or business
  1. Running a quarry 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  2. Concrete crusher 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 75. Metal pasting and joinery 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 76. Toddy bar or collecting centres 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 77. Selling bottled toddy 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 78. Foreign liquor sales and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 79. Beer sales and storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 80. Medical shops (Ayurvedic)/storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 81. Medical shops (Western)/storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 82. Aluminium ware and furniture sales/storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 83. Petroleum storing 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 84. Caro sine oil retail business 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 85. Offset printings and sales 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 86. Cinema theaters 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 Part I  Part II
   Annual value
 Empowered Business Type Rs. 1,500  Rs. 1,500 exceeding Rs. 2,500 not
  not Rs. 2,500 not exceeding
  exceeding exceeding
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 102 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1746
 87. Fast food mobile sales
  1. Pushing cart 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  2. By bicycle 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  3. By tricycle 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  4. Threewheel 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
  5. By van 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 88. Three wheelers repairs 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 89. Electrical equipment repair shops 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 90. Fish sales 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 91. Timber depot 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 92. hydrolic devices sale/production/repair 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 93. Radiator reconditioning 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 94. Noodles distribution and sale 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 95. Air conditioners repair 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 96. Running a private hospital 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 97. Medical consultation centre  2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 98. Medical laboratories 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 99. Pre school/montissory 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 100. Day care centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 101. Medical Centre (Panchakarma) 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 102. Pest control centre 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 103. Agro chemicals storing and sale 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 104. Boat service 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
11–824/3
––––––––––––––––––
AnurADhAPurA    munIcIPAL    councIL
fire Protection Service charge  - 2018
ACCORDING to the Gazette Announcement on the 20th of October 1989 No. 541/17, under the empowered Sub Act, 
267(18), (26) of Chapter XIII of Municipal Council constitution 252, the declaration of the Ministry of Local Government 
and housing any industry or trade within the limits of the Municipal Council, Anuradhapura will be provided the service of 
the fire brigade protection by charging a service charge and it has been decided by me at the council meeting which was held 
on 06th of January 2015 under the Act, No. 05/1/69.
* 40% of the license fee for dangerous and risk  businesses. 
* Rs. 500 of the license fee for the non-risk and dangerous businesses. 
 Part I  Part II
   Annual value
 Empowered Business Type Rs. 1,500  Rs. 1,500 exceeding Rs. 2,500 not
  not Rs. 2,500 not exceeding
  exceeding exceeding
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 103 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1747
Will be recovered and this amount should be paid on or 
before the 31st of March, 2018 and this is decided by the 
Commissioner of the Municipal Council of Anuradhapura 
according to the No. 87/08 of decisive Act. 
 
aJantha  gunaW ardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
11–824/6
–––––––––––––––––
AnurADhAPurA   munIcIPAL   councIL
registration of Private educational Institutions - 2018
ALL the private Educational Institutions within the limits of 
Anuradhapura Municipal Council must be registered with the 
Municipal Council of Anuradhapura. These institutions must 
have the necessary facilities of an Educational Institution. 
According to this, the Registration Charges are valid from 
the 01st of January to 31st December and it should be paid 
to the Municipal Council of Anuradhapura before the 31st of 
March of the respective year. This decision has been taken 
by the Commissioner of Municipal Council under the Act of 
87/08 on 19.08.2017. 
 Number of Students Fees
  Rs. cts. 
Upto 25 5,000 0
Between 25 to 100 10,000 0
Above 100 25,000 0
 
aJantha  gunaW ardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
11–824/4
AnurADhAPurA   munIcIPAL   councIL
registration of Private medical centres - 2018
ALL the Private Medical Centers within the limits of 
Anuradhapura Municipal Council must be registered with 
Municipal Council of Anuradhapura. These centers must 
have all the facilities of a medical centre. According to this 
the registration charges of a private medical centre is given 
below. All the registration charges are valid from the 01st 
of January to 31st of December of the respective year and 
it should be paid before the 31st of March of the respective 
year. This decision has been taken by the Commissioner 
under the Act of 87/08 on 19.08.2017. 
 Category Registration fee Rs. cts. 
* Conducting Private Medical Centre 5,000 0
* Conducting Medical Laboratory 5,000 0
* Medical centre with specialists and channeling 15,000 0
* having a private hospital 25,000 0
 
aJantha  gunaW ardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
11–824/5
–––––––––––––––––––––
AnurADhAPurA   munIcIPAL   councIL
taxes and revenues for Land Sale - 2018
i hereby declare that according to the Constitutional act 247 
(E) (1) of Municipal Council (252 clause) Any of the land 
brokers, Auctioneers, land agents or sale servants sold a piece 
of land which belongs to the land limits of Anuradhapura 
Municipal Council has to pay a tax of 1% equalant amount 
of money from the sold amount of the land. This decision 
has been taken by the Commissioner at the council meeting 
under the act 87/08 which was held on 19.08.2017.
 
aJantha  gunaW ardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
11–824/7

<!-- page 104 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1748
AnurADhAPurA    munIcIPAL    councIL
charges for the Banners for Advertisement and 
Displaying Propaganda Advertisement - 2018
UNDER the impose order of Municipality Act of 272/27 
(252 clause) in accordance with 20th January 1989 day of 
No. 541/17 Gazette Notification, The Minister of Local 
Government, housing and construction as published on page 
90/A (02 chapter) about the propaganda advertisement act 
and in accordance with Anuradhapura Municipal Council 
declares that whoever wants to erect an advertisement 
board or name board within the Municipality limits has to 
obtain the permission and license from the Commissioner 
of Anuradhapura Municipal Council. The following enlisted 
registry shows the charges and rates for 2018 which was 
unanimously decided by the Commissioner under the act of 
87/08 on 19.08.2017.
 
aJantha gunaWardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
REGISTRY
 Rs. cts.
For one square foot per annum 200 0
Dual display illuminated for one 1sq. ft. per annum 400 0
Banner type poster for 1sq.ft for 30 days 50 0
Cut out/flag for 1 sq. ft. for 30 days 50 0
Digital poster fixed charge for 1 sq. ft. (one year) 150 0
Digital poster display advertisement for 3 months 20 0
11-824/10
–––––––––––––––
AnurADhAPurA    munIcIPAL    councIL
(252 clause) constitution of municipal council Act, 
1979 no. 42 the Amended Act, of municipal council
TAXES FOR VEhICLES AND ANIMALS - 2018
by Anuradhapura Municipal Council. I hereby inform,
 ( a) It has been declared that tax has been imposed for 
vehicles and animals for the year 2018 under the 
municipal Council and Urban Council amended Act, 
of 1979 No. 42 of the constitution of 245/chapter 4.
 ( b) It should be paid on or before 31st of March, 2018 
according to the Municipailty Act, of 245 (4). I hereby 
inform that this decision has been taken under the Act 
of No. 87/08 at the Council meeting which was held 
on 19.08.2017.
 
aJantha gunaWardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
Sub Registry :  Rs. cts.
For Commercial Purpose
Motor car, three wheel, Motor lorry motor  50 0
   bicycle cart or hand cart, rickshow, bicycle
  tricycle and all vehicles  
All bicycles or tricycles or bicycle or bicycle car or 
   bicycle cart –
 ( a) Non-commercial purpose 10 0
 ( b) For commercial purpose 5 0
All carts 5 0
All hand carts (pushing) 20 0
All rickshaw 7 0
All horses, pony, donkeys 15 0
All elephants 50 0
11-824/9
––––––––––––––––
AnurADhAPurA    munIcIPAL    councIL
other recoveries  - 2018
Rs. cts.
01. (i) Title names changing fee 1,000 0
 (ii) Application fee for asset revenue  100 0
  title names changing
02. Non vest certificate issue 500 0
03. General exhibition permit fee 500 0
04. Circuit bunglows full bookings 30,000 0
 (i) Single room with single bed 01 1,000 0
 (ii) Single room with double bed 01 2,000 0
 (iii) Single room with double beds  3,500 0
  air conditioned

<!-- page 105 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1749
Rs. cts.
05. Sunahatha pilgrims rest bookings :
 * Room facilities
 (i) Room with two beds 1,000 0
 (ii) Room with three beds 1,500 0
 (iii) Room with four beds 2,000 0
 * hall facilities 
 (i) Accommodate 30 pilgrims 3,000 0
 (ii) Accommodate 40 pilgrims 4,500 0
 (iii) Accommodate 50 pilgrims 5,000 0
 (iv) Accommodate 60 pilgrims 6,000 0
06. Gully bowser service supply
 (i) Residence purpose/common  3,000 0
  places - service for once
 (ii) Residence purpose/common  5,000 0
  places - out of municipal limits
  (Transport for additional 01km. 
  Rs. 200 will be charged)
 (iii) Commercial sector within  4,000 0
  Municipal limit
 (iv) Commercial sector out of Municipal  6,050 0
  limit
  (Transport for additional 01km. Rs. 200
  will be charged)
 (v) Government sector within Municipal 4,000 0
  limit
 (vi) Government sector out ot Municipal 5,000 0
  limit
  (Additional transport for 01Km. Rs. 200
  will be charged)
07. Streetline certificate issue fee 500 0
08. (i) Electricity approval illegal - application 1,500 0
  fee
 (ii) Electricity approval legal - approval fee 500 0
09. Grass cutting machine for 01 hour hire 2,000 0
10. Grass cutting machine for schools and shrines 1,000 0
11. Rubbish of tree branches - one load 500 0
12. Building debris 1,100 0
13. Bookings of the sports stadium (in addition
   to this garbage will be charged)
 (i) For commercial purpose per day 50,000 0
 (ii) For sports purpose 25,000 0
 (iii) Commercial purpose for Govt. Sector 25,000 0
  per day
 (iv) Sports purpose for Govt. Sectors 3,000 0
 (v) For meetings 5,000 0
14, Bookings for Valisinha harischandra Grounds
    (in addition to this garbage will be charged)
 (i) Commercial purpose for one day  50,000 0
  (private) 
  (For two days Rs. 100,000 and for every 
  additional day Rs. 25,000 will be charged)
 (ii) For private purposes - per day 25,000 0
 (iii) For sports purpose per day - (Private) 5,000 0
 (iv) Commercial purpose for Govt. sector 15,000 0
  (For 02 days Rs. 30,000 and for every 
  additional day Rs. 5,000 will be charged)
 (v) For Govt. sector for sports purpose 2,000 0
  per day
15. Kada 50 grounds for commercial purpose  3,000 0
   (bookings)
16. Bookings for Pubudupura Community centre
 (i) For commercial purpose 2,000 0
 (ii) For general purpose per day 1,000 0
 (iii) Commercial or public purpose for one 200 0
  hour
 (iv) Electricity supply per day 300 0
17. Other premises for sales stalls 5,000 0
18.  (i) Residence building application form 600 0
 (ii) Commercial building application form 800 0
 (iii) Building limit certificate 300 0
19. Sub dividing (building purpose) application 400 0
    forms
20. C. O. C. application form 200 0
21. Community centre No. 02 bookings
 (i) With chairs per day (for meetings) 2,500 0
 (ii) Commercial purpose per day - inside 10,000 0
                               - outside 5,000 0
 (iii) General purpose 3,000 0
 (iv) Front premises for commercial purpose 3,500 0
 (v) Front premises for general purpose  2,000 0
  per day
 (vi) Reserving for one hour 300 0
Rs. cts.

<!-- page 106 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1750
22. Tractor water bowser - one 600 0
    (For transport one kilometer Rs. 150) 
23. Water bowser (lorry) 1,500 0
    (first 10 km for 2,000 and for additional 01 km., 
    Rs. 100.00 will be charged)
24. Pipe line laying :
 (i) 30 feet tared road 5,000 0
 (ii) 20 feet tared road 4,000 0
 (iii) 40  feet gravel road 1,000 0
 (iv) 30  feet gravel road 800 0
 (v) 20  feet gravel road 700 0
25. Road roller for 01 hour 1,000 0
26. Backo machine for 01 hour 3,500 0
27. Motor grade for 01 hour 5,000 0
28.  (i) Poson dansal service fee - only rice 2,000 0
 (ii) Poson dansal service fee - other 1,000 0
 (iii) Poson dansal fee - Tender coconut 8,000 0
  (kurumba)
29. Catching stray bulls and cows per head 1,550 0
30. Carbonic fertilizer sales per 01kg. 10 0
31. Environmental permit - for 01 4,000 0
32.  Ambulance service
 (i) Fixed rate 300 0
 (ii) For 1 km. 30 0
 (iii) Keep stand by 2,000 0
33. Fire brigade service 
 (i) Trained -city limit 3,000 0
        - Out of city limit 5,000 0
 (ii) Coverage certificate 70,000 0
 (iii) Out of city limit within 40 km  
                - bail deposit 25,000 0
                - on fire 12,500 0
 (iv) Fire report 500 0
34. Cut across asphalt (carpet road) when  3,000 0
    laying pipeline
  (In addition to this, Government Tax 
  is entitled)
35. 1. Crematorium charges
 (i) Residents of city limit - 1.30 p. m. and 5,000 0
  3.00 p.m.
 (ii) City limit - 6.00 p.m. 5,000 0
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 (iii) Out of city limit - 1.30 p. m and 3.00 p.m. 10,000 0
 (iv) Out of city limit - 6.00 p.m. 10,600 0
      2. Cemetery charges
 (i) Burial of city limit over Free of charge
  12 years old
 (ii) Burial of city limit under 12 years do.
  old
 (iii) Burial of out of city limit over 1,500 0
  12 years old
 (iv) Burial of out of city limit under  750 0
  12 years old
 (v) Fixed burial of city limit per square feet 350 0
 (vi) Fixed burial out of city limit per  600 0
  square feet
 (vii) With tomb city limit 1,000 0
 (viii) With tomb out of city limit 1,500 0
 (ix) Cremation of crematorium city limit 5,000 0
 (x) Cremation of crematorium out of  10,000 0
  city limit
36. Entertainment tax recovery - carnival/musical 25%
   show from the entrance ticket
37. Entertainment tax from cinemas 7.5%
40. Public fair charges
 (i) Vegetables stall 160 0
 (ii) Vegetables open stall 140 0
 (iii) Dry fish stall  190 0
 (iv) Provisions/Textiles stall 170 0
 (v) Coconut stall 200 0
 (vi) Fish stall 1,000 0
 (vii) Restaurant stall 220 0
 (viii) Restaurant (open) 420 0
 (ix) Tourism business 70 0
 (x) Open space for 01 foot 20 0
 (xi) Banana clusters 10 0
 (xii) Entering lorries 100 0
 (xiii) Three wheels/land master 50 0
 (xiv) For an additional bulb 15 0
 (xv) Exhibit items of lorries 20 0
  (For wholesale one item)
 
aJantha gunaWardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
11–824/12

<!-- page 107 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1751
AnurADhAPurA    munIcIPAL    councIL
constitution of Dogs registration (477-clause)
ChARGES FOR DOG REGISTRATION - 2018
UNDER the C onstitution act IX of dogs registration 
(477-clause) Anuradhapura Municipal Council hereby 
declared that within the limits of Anuradhapura Municipal 
Council whoever keeps a pet dog or a bitch should pay 
respectively Rs. 25 and Rs. 75 as a service charge for the 
registration of dogs and it is imposed by the Commissioner 
pay on or before 31st of March, 2018. I also hereby inform 
that this decision has been taken at the council meeting under 
the act 87/08 which was held on 19.08.2017.
 
aJantha gunaWardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the Office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
11–824/8
–––––––––––––––––
AnurADhAPurA    munIcIPAL    councIL
t axes and revenues for Assets - 2018
hEREBY I declare as the Commissioner of the Municipal 
Council under the constitutional Act of Municipal Council 
and Urban Council 286A - clause according to Act of 230(1) 
constitution, whatever the assets within the Municipal 
Council limits of Anuradhapura is entitled for tax payment 
for the year 2018.
 01. From the value of residential assets for current year 
  Division No. 01, 02 5%
  Division No. 03, 04 6%
  Division No. 05, 06, 07, 08, 09, 10 7%
 02. From the value of state property and  11%
  commercial assets for the current year
For the year 2018 as it mentioned in the registry below all 
the due revenues and taxes should be paid to the Municipal 
Council of Anuradhapura on said dates and if so it is paid 
on 31st of January or before date, there will be a 10% of 
discount given and if paid before for each quarter mentioned 
in the registry, there will be a 5% discount given for the 
particular quarter payment. This decision has been taken by 
the Commissioner of Municipal Council under the Act, of 
53/10 on 21.10.2017.
 
aJantha gunaWardana,
 Commissioner,
 Municipal Council of Anuradhapura.
At the office of Anuradhapura Municipal Council,
On 31st of August, 2017. 
ThE  ABOVE  MENTIONED  REGISTRY
 Quarter Dates to be paid Final date for 
   5% discount
1st quarter 01st of January 2018 to 31st 31st of January
  2018
2nd quarter 01st of April 2018 to 30th 30th of April
  2018
3rd quarter 01st of July 2018 to 31st 31st of July
  2018
4th quarter 01st of October 2018 to 31st 31st October 
  2018
If the taxes are not paid within the quarterly period, 
there will be a fine of 20% for house assets and 25% for 
commercial assets.
11–824/11
BALAPItIy A    PrADeShIy A    SABhA
naming Dangerous and unpleasant Businesses and 
Imposing License fees for - 2018
it is hereby notified to the general public that the following 
proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha Secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 
2017. 
This License fees for 2018 should be paid to the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Office before 31st March, 2018. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha Office,
24th October, 2017.

<!-- page 108 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1752
By virtue of powers vested under Sub-section (1) of Section 21 By-law of Local Government By-laws Act, No. 06 
of 1952 to the Local Government Institutions. It is hereby declared that the businesses mentioned in the following Schedule, 
as Dangerous and Unpleasant Businesses. 
By virtue of powers vested under paragraph "B" of Sub-section (1) of Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 
of 1987 read with Section 149. It is proposed that any industry mentioned in the Column (I) in the Schedule hereto is to be 
carried on a license issued for Year 2018 and if the annual value of the complex where the industry is carrying out is within 
the limit of Column (II) prorate license fee in the corresponding column should be imposed and recovered. 
s chedule
Dangerous Business :
  Column I  Column II
    Places of  Places of  Places of 
   annual value  annual value annual value
    up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750  exceeding
 No. Nature of Industry  to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01 Maintaining a beauty parlor  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02 Pharmacy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03 Manufacturing and packeting mushrooms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04 Manufacturing of steel furniture for sale  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05 Tobacco associated products  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06 Industry of packeting and processing salt for consumption  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07 Maintaining an Ayurvedic clinical center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08 Maintaining a Western treatment center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09 Maintaining a gutter manufacture center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10 Maintaining a lathe machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11 Welding workshop or grill workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12 Steel workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13 Machinery carpentry workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14 Thread production, cotton, processing, Gos processing, weaving  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  center, through power loom machines 
 15 Concrete cylinders, cement blocks or any other cement products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16 Motor vehicle repair center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17 Three wheel, motor cycle repair center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18 Air conditioners, refrigerators, deep freezers and electrical  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  articles repair center 
 19 Production and sale of fertilizer, agro chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20 Storing animal food items and selling  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21 Metal crusher metal blasting, storing and sale centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22 Vehicles, motor bicycles and motor car service center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23 Metal crusher, metal blasting, storing and sale centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24 Paddy grinding mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25 Electrical printing press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26 Cinnamon fumigation centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27 Lime kiln 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28 Saw mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29 Vehicles, motor bicycles and three wheelers painting centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30 Fiberglass workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 109 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1753
 31 X-ray centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32 Maintenance of an aluminium associate production and sales center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33 Maintaining a medical chemistry lab 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34 Maintaining the milk powder related production and sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35 Maintaining a spot for Sinhala medicines  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36 Maintaining a place for storing or producing bricks, tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Unpleasant Business :
 01 Maintaining a coconut oil mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02 Maintaining dental surgery, detnal clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03 Production marketing of garcinia paste pickle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04 Egg sales centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05 Production of sweets and sales 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06 Production of papadam and noodles or sales centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07 Production and sales of ice cream, jelly, yoghurt, ice packets  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08 Production or sale of jam, syrup, sauce 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09 Storage and sales of dry fish, slated fish  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10 Cinnamon peeling, cinnamon oil shed or sale of cinnamon firewood 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11 Maintaining herbal drink, roasted gram, ground nuts, tempered gram  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  popcorn 
 12 Drinking water bottling industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13 Maintaining a poultry farm with less than 1,000 chicken  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14 Maintaining a poultry farm with more than 1,000 chicken  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15 Maintaining a piggery below 25 animals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16 Maintaining a piggery above 25 animals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17 Maintaining a cattle pen below 25 animals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18 Maintaining a cattle pen above 25 animals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19 Maintaining a veternary medical center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20 Maintaining a centre for drying tea dust for packeting and selling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21 Maintaining a  mobile business outlet (a cart or a vehicle) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22 Maintaining a milk cafe and a fruit cafe 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23 Maintaining a sales outlet packing and selling bites, groundnuts and  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  masala powder 
 24 Maintaining a copra production place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25 Maintaining a place selling food items prone to quick decaying 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Dangerous and Unpleasant Business : 
 01 Maintaining a grinding mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02 Maintaining a coir factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03 Selling of coconut husk and timber  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04 Maintaining a lime kiln 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05 Leather foaming factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06 Manufacture and sale of goods form leather and rubber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07 Workshop manufacturing rubber bush  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08 Maintaining a rubber smoke room  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column I  Column II
    Places of  Places of  Places of 
   annual value  annual value annual value
    up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750  exceeding
 No. Nature of Industry  to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 110 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1754
 09 Maintaining a place to sell firework goods and crackers  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10 Maintaining a place to convert vehicles to gas  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11 Place for storing and selling gas  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12 Maintaining a batik workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13 Manufacture and repair of jewellery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14 Maintaining a mattresses manufacturing center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15 Soap manufacture centre  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16 Maintaining a florist 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17 Manufacture of jewellery items using silver and gold as raw materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–670/2
––––––––––––––––
BALAPItIy A  PrADeShIy A  SABhA
Imposing of taxes for Business and Professions  for year - 2018
it  is hereby notified to the general public that the following proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 2017. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha office,
24th October, 2017.
By virtue of powers vested under Sub-section (1) of Section 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. It is 
proposed that any business on profession need not require to obtaining a license or not require to pay industrial tax in terms 
of any provision made under the said Act or under Section 150 of the same Act, all the person, who carry out such business 
of profession in 2018 within the area of Authority of Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha, if the income receive from the business 
or profession fall within any of the item in Column (i) of the Schedule below impose and levy a business or Professional Tax 
shown in Column (ii) prorate for the year 2018. And any person who is liable to pay the business or profession a tax should 
pay same before 31st March, 2018. 
SChEDULE 
 Column (i) Column (ii)
 Tax which should be paid previous to the tax payable year Rs. cts. 
 
Amount received from the business on profession
01. Not exceeding Rs. 6,000 -
02. Above Rs. 6,000 and not exceeding Rs. 12,000 90 0
03. Above Rs. 12,000 and not exceeding Rs. 18,750 180 0
04. Above Rs. 18,750 and not exceeding Rs. 75,000 360 0
05. Above Rs. 75,000 and not exceeding Rs. 150,000 1,200 0 
06. Above Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
  Column I  Column II
    Places of  Places of  Places of 
   annual value  annual value annual value
    up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750  exceeding
 No. Nature of Industry  to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 111 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1755
 1. Commission agents 
 2. Brokers
 3. Auctioneers
 4. Attorneys-at-law
 5. Pawn brokers
 6. Auditors
 7. Contractors
 8. Driving training schools
 9. Foreign employment agent
 10. Notaries
 11. Money suppliers and lenders
 12. Architectures
 13. Insurance agent 
 14. Commercial Banks and Rural Banks
 15. Maintaining a jewellery sale shop
 16. Maintaining a laundry with machines 
 17. Fuel filling station 
 18. Running a private enterprise, weekly fair
 19. Ayurvedic massage clinic
 20. Running a wine stores, selling foreign liquor
 21. Running a garments
 22. Running a gem lapidary
 23. Preparation of garments for export
 24. Running a turtle hatchery and displaying to the tourists 
 25. Running a provision associated industry
 26. Running a race by race
 27. Import, sale or exhibit of new and/or used motor 
vehicles
 28. Spice oil, picture cards, cultivation and sale of 
provisions (for tourist)
 29. Running a day care center 
 30. Running a sea plane landing place
 31. Running a security service establishment
 32. Manufacture of goods from stain steel, timber, storing 
and sales
 33. Manufacturing a saw mill or timber stoke
 34. Running an international school 
 35. Running a polythine production place
 36. Running a private bird sanctuary
 37. Monetary establishment and banks
 38. Running a private dispensary, channeled service, 
operation theatre (private hospitals)
 39. Running super markets 
 40. hiring of backhoe loaders, backhoe machine, dexer 
and motor graders, tampers, tractors, tippers, concrete 
mixtures
 41. Running a rubber factory
 42. Running lorry body building place
 43. Running lodges not registered in the tourist board 
(more than 05 rooms)
 44. Processing fish for export
 45. Supply of man power
 46. Processing cinnamon for export
 47. Running an establishment to take pilgrims to india
 48. housing draughtsman
 49. Running a private educational institution.
11–670/5
––––––––––––––––––
BALAPItIy A   PrADeShIy A   SABhA
Imposing of License fees for hotels, restaurants, 
Lodging places registered with the ceylon tourist 
Board for - 2018
it  is hereby notified to the general public that the following 
proposal was adopted at the Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha 
Secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 2017. 
This license fees for 2018 should be paid to the Pradeshiya 
Sabha office before 31st March, 2018.
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Balapitiya.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office,
Balapitiya,
24th October, 2017.
By virtue of powers vested under paragraph B of Sub-
section (1) of Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 
of 1987 read with Section 149. It is proposed that if hotel, 
restaurant or lodge being used for that purposed within 
the area of Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha and if the hotel, 
restaurant or lodge were registered for the propose of Tourist 
Development Act, No. 14 of 1968 accepted and admitted 
the annual license fee for the year 2018 should be levied 
not exceeding 1% (one percent) from the income received 
during the previous year. 
11–670/3
––––––––––––––––
BALAPItIy A   PrADeShIy A   SABhA
Assessment tax for - 2018
it  is hereby notified to the general public that the following 
proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 

<!-- page 112 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1756
Sabha secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 
2017. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha office,
24th October, 2017.
By virtue of powers vested under Sub-section (1) of 
Section 146 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
 ( a) It is proposed to accept the annual value of the 
immovable properties situated in the areas declared 
as developed areas within the area of authority of 
Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha in 2017 as the annual 
for 2018 also ; and
 ( b) By virtue of powers vested under Sub-section (i) 
of Section 134 it is decided to charge 8% (eight 
percent). Assessment tax from the annual value 
of all the immovable properties situated within 
the sub office area of authority of Wathugedara 
which is declared as a development area 6% (six 
percent). Assessment tax from the annual value of 
all immovable properties situated within the main 
office and developed area within Kosgoda ; and 
 ( c) By virtue of powers vested under Sub-section (6) of 
Section 134 the above annual assessment tax should 
be paid on 31st March, 30th June, 30th September 
and 31st December, 2018 in four quarterly equal 
installments to the Pradeshiya Sabha ; and 
 ( d) By virtue of powers vested under Sub-section (7) 
of Section 134, if the above Assessment Tax is 
paid on or before 31st January, 2018, 10% from the 
Assessment Tax will be deducted and if it is paid 
in installment 50% reduction will be made if the 
Assessment Tax is paid within the first month of the 
quarter. 
11–670/6
––––––––––––––––––
BALAPItIyA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
tax for Vehicles and Animals for - 2018
it  is hereby notified to the general public that the following 
proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 
2017. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha office,
Balapitiya,
24th October, 2017.
By virtue of powers vested under Sub-section (2) of 
Section 148 read with Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 15 of 1987. It is proposed that any person who 
is in possession of any vehicle or animal mentioned in the 
Column (i) of the Schedule given below with the area of 
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Balapitiya during the 2018, 
tax should be paid for 2018 corresponding to Column (ii) 
and the tax should paid to Pradeshiya Sabha Balapitiya 
before 31st March, 2018. 
SChEDULE 
 Column (i) Column (ii)
  Rs. cts. 
01. All vehicles other than a motor car, three- 25  0
 wheel motor car, motor lorry, motor bicycle, 
 jin rickshow, bicycle or tircycle
02. Bicycles, tricycle or bicycle car or bicycle cart -
 ( a) If it is used for commercial purpose 18  0
 ( b) If it is not used for commercial purpose 4  0
03. For all carts 20  0
04. For all manual carts 10  0
05. For all rickshows 7 50
11–670/7
––––––––––––––––
BALAPItIyA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
enforcement of entertainment tax for - 2018
it  is hereby notified to the general public that the following 
proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 

<!-- page 113 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1757
Sabha secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 
2017. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha office,
24th October, 2017.
It is proposed that every person holding function for 
entertainment within the area of authority of Pradeshiya 
Sabha relevant for purposes Entertainment Ordinance 
Chapter 267 amount similar to 10% of the sum collected 
from the spectators and by virtue of powers vested to the 
Local Government bodies under Section 2 of the above 
Entertainment Ordinance the Entertainment Tax must 
be imposed and should pay same to Pradeshiya Sabha 
Balapitiya one day prior to the day holding the function. 
11–670/8
–––––––––––––––
BALAPItIyA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
enforcement of tax for Land Sales - 2018
it  is hereby notified to the general public that the following 
proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 
2017. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha office,
Balapitiya,
24th October, 2017.
It is proposed that in terms of Sub-section (1) of Section 
154 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, any person or 
his servant or agent who sells lands by public auction or any 
way. Within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Balapitiya a tax 
equaling to 1% (one percent) of the amount collected from 
the land sales the seller. Or the auctioneer or broker or the 
servant should pay to Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha. 
11-670/10
BALAPItIyA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
Licence fees for Propaganda Advertisements for - 2018
it  is hereby notified to the general public that the following 
proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 
2017. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha office,
24th October, 2017.
By virtue of powers vested under Section (1) of 39 By-
law of approve By-laws Act, No. 06 of 1952 to Pradeshiya 
Sabha Balapitiya. It is proposed that any person displaying 
an advertisement in front of a Street, Road, Ela, Lake, Sea 
or Sky should obtain a license after paying the charges 
mentioned in the Schedule given below conforming to the 
provisions in para (a) of Section (3) of the aforesaid By-laws. 
SChEDULE 
 Rs. cts. 
 01. Any type of above propaganda  60 0
  advertisement for every square feet for 
  one year
 02. Any type of above propaganda  40 0
  advertisement for every square feet for 
  one month
11–670/9
–––––––––––––––
BALAPItIyA  PrADeShIyA  SABhA
charging the environmental tax for - 2018
it  is hereby notified to the general public that the following 
proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha Secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 
2017. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office,
Balapitiya,
24th October, 2017.

<!-- page 114 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1758
It is proposed that an environment protection license 
fee and an inspectio n fee should be leaving in respect of 
the following activities which are expressed as prescribed 
project mentioned in the Schedule given below appear in 
Section "c" in Gazette Extra Ordinary No. 1,523/16 dated 
25.01.2008. Issued in conformity with the regulations 
framed under National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 
amended by Act, No. 56 of 1988 and 53 of 2000. 
BUSINESS / INDUSTRY 
 Initial investment Inspection fees 
  Rs. cts. 
Rs. 250,000 or below 3,000 0
Rs. 250,000 - 500,000 3,750 0
Rs. 500,000 - 1,000,000 5,000 0
Over Rs. 1,000,000 10,000 0
Environmental protection license fee issued  4,000 0
  in three years
 01. License should be obtained (liquid petroleum and 
petroleum vapor)
 02. Candle manufacturing industry with 10 or more workers
 03. Coconut oil industry with 10 or more and below 25
 04. Manufacture of fruit drink which do not mix alcohol 
with 10 or more and below 25 workers 
 05. Paddy mills with dry action 
 06. Grinding mill with production capacity for one month 
below 1,000 kilograms. 
 07. Tobacco drying industry.
 08. Sulfur fumigation of cinnamon industry with production 
capacity in one action is 500 kilograms.
 09. Picketing and processing of salt for consumption.
 10. Tea factories except instant tea factories.
 11. Concrete pre-mixed industries.
 12. Manufactures of cement blocks with the help of 
machine.
 13. Lime kilns with a production capacity of 20 metric tons 
per day.
 14. Plaster of Paris manufacture industry or ceramic items 
production industry with bleow 25 workers.
 15. Oyster shell grinding industry.
 16. Tiles and bricks industry.
 17. Excavation done by using less man power and explosives 
for a production capacity of 600 cubic meters for one 
month by exploring one boring pitch for a time.
 18. Foaming timber using boron perium way or saw mills 
which have sawing capacity of below 50 cubic meters 
per day.
 19. Carpentry workshops using multipurpose machines or 
industries with more than 5 or below 25 workers.
 20. hotels, guest houses and rest houses with more than 5 or 
below 20 rooms.
 21. Vehicle repair and maintenance garages excluding 
grages repairing, maintaining and installing vehicle air 
conditioners and air conditioners.
 22. Repairing refrigerators and air conditioners.
 23. Container terminal yard not attending to vehicle service 
activities.
 24. Electrical goods repairing places employed 10 or more 
workers
 25. Maintenance of printing press lecture printing and 
installation exlcuding lead melting.
11–670/13
–––––––––––––––––––
BALAPItIyA   PrADeShIyA   SABhA
Imposed of Industries tax for  2018
it is hereby notified to the general public that the following 
proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha Secretary decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 
2017. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Office,
Balapitiya,
24th October, 2017.
"By virtue of powers vested to Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Sub-section (1) of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, it is proposed that the industries carrying on 
within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority mentioned in 
the Column (i) of the schedule below, corresponding to the 
annual value of the place where the Industry is carrying out 
an industry tax shown in the Column should be imposed and 
levied and the personal who are liable to pay such tax should 
pay to Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha before 31st March, 
2018".

<!-- page 115 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1759
s chedule  
    Places of  Places of  Places of 
   annual value  annual value annual value
    up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750  exceeding
 No. Nature of Industry  to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Running a place for sales of household furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. maintai ning a computer repair centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Strong and selling grocery items and cosmetic items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Selling of motor bicycle and three wheel, spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Selling of brand new motor bicycles or repaired motor bicycle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Selling of bicycle, electrical goods, refrigerators or sewing 
  machines spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. holding of an ornamental items selling center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. holding of a center for sale of carved items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Selling of beetle, arecanut, brooms, ekel brooms and 
  pottery items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Reception halls, cinema 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Selling plastic items and polythene 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Maintains of an astrological center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Mobile phone center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Running a place for selling or hiring of festival items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Running a textile shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Selling of readymade garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Running a Tailoring shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. hiring the bridle items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Running a place for Production and sale of spectacles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Selling of stationary, newspapers, Magazines, school items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Maintainng Picture framing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Local and international telecommunication center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Recording and selling CD, DVD 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Maintaining studio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Selling of building material (hardware) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Running a cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27. Center for sale of atapirikara and offering items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28. Repairing of weight and measures utensils 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29. hiring of musical instruments, production and sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. Maintaining a photocopy, roneo and laminating center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31. Maintaining a place for foreign currency change 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32. Maintenance of a computer sale center holding of training courses 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33. Maintenance of sale of refrigerators, Deep freezers, Air 
  conditioners and holding study courses center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34. Maintaining a place for sewing the mosquito nets and 
  selling center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. Maintenance of an agency for newspaper advertisements 
  sale of newspapers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36. Maintaining a place for boat and ferry service 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37. holding a juk e machine training center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 116 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1760
 38. holding a center for sale of spare parts for cellular phones 
  and Telephone 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39. holding a center for hiring and selling diving and swimming 
  instruments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40. holding a center for sale and storing of ceramic items 
  (including porcelain and silver items) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 41. holding a center for sale of motor car spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 42. holding a betting center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 43. holding a center for sale of sports items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 44. Marketing of lottery tickets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 45. Preparation of  advertisement boards and plastic number plates 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 46. holding motor bicycle and bicycle protecting center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 47. Maintaining flower, plant, herbal plant and other plant 
  nurseries and displaying 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 48. Maintaining nurses training center  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 49. Storing and marketing an aluminum goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 50. Maintaining a place to store Muppets for shows 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 51. Supplying internet facilities 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 52. Maintaining a place to prepare wood carvings and masks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 53. Maintaining a place to park the vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 54. Maintaining a place to hire a generator 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 55. Place to produce, store and selling the pottery items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 56. Running a Exercise book manufaturing centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 57. A place to store and sell old iron scraps plastic goods empty bottles,
   Newspapers and sacks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 58. Breeding ornamental fish sale selling of aqua fish tank 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 59. Sale of king coconuts, Young coconuts, coconuts, plantain, 
  vegetable leaves 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 60. Carrying on a Temporary Trade Promotion program 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 61. Maintaining sale stall for furniture or any other items (perday) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 62. Maintaining of lubricant oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 63. Maintaining a timber sale depot 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 64. Maintaining a firewood sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 65. Maintaining a coconut rafters and beams sale center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 66. Maintaining an ordinary carpentry workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 67. Screen printing workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 68. Maintaining of a Motor winding place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 69. Maintaining a place of sale and repairing boat Engines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 70. Maintaining a printing press working by manually operated machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 71. Manufacture of carving items and fancy items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 72. Manually shoe production place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0]
 73. Maintaining a construction and sale of momuments and plaques 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 74. Maintaining a place of selling bronze items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 75. Maintaining a place of selling copper items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 76. Maintaining place of vulcanizing Tyres and tubes storing new or old tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 77. Maintaining a candles manufacturing center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
    Places of  Places of  Places of 
   annual value  annual value annual value
    up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750  exceeding
 No. Nature of Industry  to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 117 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1761
 78. Maintaing mobile phones repairing and sale of spare parts center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 79. Maintaining a bicycle repair center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 80. Jewellery coloring center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 81. Maintaining a  battery charging and sales center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 82. Maintaining a coir associated products sale center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 83. Publication and distribution of books, Magazines and 
  stationary 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 84. Building construction materials leasing center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 85. Maintaining of a Electrical item leasing center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 86. Sale of Goods Manufactured from leather and rubber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 87. Maintenance of  a coconut shell purchasing and charcoal 
  marketing center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 88. Maintenance of a Nylon Associate products sales center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 89. Maintenance of a computer programmers processing center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 90. Running a physical fitness center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 91. Running a  place selling antique household items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 92. Running a places selling cleaning items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 93. Running a place bicycle sales outles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 94. Maintaining  a place selling threewheeler or vehicle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 95, Maintaining a printing house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 96. Maintaining a sales outlet selling footwear 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 97. Maintaining place displaying elephant and charging fees 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 98. Maintaining a cab vehicle service 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 99. Maintaining  a place for selling and production of incense 
  sticks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 100. Maintaining a place for production of LED bulbs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 101. Maintenance a place of manufacture and selling of curtains, 
  wall decarations and handcrafts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 102. Maintaining a place for selling of Batic Production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 103. Maintaining a place for selling or rent of wedding function 
  goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 104. Maintaining a business of renting loud speakers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 105. Maintenance  a place of selling tyres and tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 106. Running a place for hiring Nescafe Machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 107. Running a cake shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 108. Running glass sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 109. Running a cinnamon collecting centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 110. Running place for Art gallery and sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 111. Running a place for selling curd 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 112. Running a bag production centre or sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 113. Maintenance of a vegetables or fruits sale centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 114. Maintaining  a retail provision Boutique 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 115. Maintaining a rice sales outlets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11-670/4
    Places of  Places of  Places of 
   annual value  annual value annual value
    up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750  exceeding
 No. Nature of Industry  to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 118 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1762
BALAPItIy A   PrADeShIy A   SABhA
trade License fees - 2018
it  is hereby notified to the general public that the following proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha Secretary decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 2017. 
This license fees for 2018 should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha Office before 31st March, 2018. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha office,
Balapitiya,
24th October, 2017.
By virtue of powers vested under Section "A" of Sub-section 1 of Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 
1987 read with Section 149, it is proposed that any Industry intend to carry on during 2018 within the area of authority 
of Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha mentioned in Column (i) in the Schedule here to and on a licenses issued in terms of the 
provision of by-laws under Local Government Act, No. 06 of 1952 and if the annual value of the complex where the Industry 
is carrying out is within the limit of Column (II) prorate license fee in the corresponding Column should be imposed and 
recovered. 
schedule 
    Places of  Places of  Places of 
   annual value  annual value annual value
    up to Rs. 750 from Rs. 750  exceeding
 No. Nature of Industry  to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Carrying on a lodge 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Rice boutique 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Restaurant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Tea or coffee boutique 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Fish stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Meat stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Ice factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Aerated water factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Laundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. hair dressing saloon and a barber saloon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–670/1

<!-- page 119 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1763
BALAPItIy A   PrADeShIy A   SABhA
Processing charges, Service charges, Granting of covering approval charges and charges for Properties become 
to Pradeshiya Sabha Balapitiya and Service rendered by Pradeshiya Sabha Balapitiya for - 2018
it is hereby notified to the general public that the following proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha Secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 2017. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha office,
Balapitiya,
24th October, 2017.
It is proposed that the areas where Urban Development Ordinance generally apply the development project operated 
within the area of Authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Balapitiya and the processing charges for sub division of lands, service 
charges, granting of covering approval charges and the properties belong to Pradeshiya Sabha Balapitiya and the services 
rendered by Pradeshiya Sabha Balapitiya should be levied for the year 2018 as given in the schedule given below. 
SChEDULE 
Processing chargers, granting of coVering aPProVal chargers and serVice charges
 Nature of development work From should The chargers
   be used  
01. Issue of development permits A Processing chargers 
  (i) Sub divisions of lands   (i) No. of land blocks  chargers for one block of land  
      excluding roads ditches and common land blocks 
       Square meters 150 - 300 Rs. 500
       Square meters 301 - 600 Rs. 400
       Square meters 601 - 900 Rs. 300
       Square meters over - 901 Rs. 200
  (ii) Construction of building additions/ B  (ii) Floor aera in square Residential  Commercial 
   reconstruction    meters Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 
       Below 45 500 0 1,000 0
       45 - 90 1,500 0 2,000 0
       91 - 180 2,500 0 3,000 0
       181 - 270 3,500 0 4,000 0
       271 - 450 4,500 0 6,000 0
       451 - 675 5,500 0 8,000 0
       676 - 900 6,500 0 10,000 0
       901 - 1,225 7,500 0 12,000 0
       Over 1,225 7,500 0 12,000 0
       Rs. 1,000 for additional :  Rs. 1,250 0
       Every 90 square meters   For additional every 90 sq. m.
       above sq. m. 1,226 over 1,226 sq. m.

<!-- page 120 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1764
  (iii) Boundary walls/security erections   (iii) Residential chargers for one Commercial or other 
       long meters charge for square meters
   * Outside building limit        300      400
   * Within building limit        500      600
  (iv) filling of lands/fields   (iv) Rs. 1,500 for below sq. m. 150 and 1,000 for each additional  
        150 square meters 
  (v) Construction of telephone tools/antenna   (v) Rs. 20,000 up to 5-20 meters and 1,000 for each 
       additional  100 meters 
  (vi) Issue of development permits for    (vi) Rs. 5,000 for 5 million and Rs. 100 for each one million. 
   special projects
02. Charging a residential unit B Processing chargers 
     Floor area square  
        meters Rs. cts.  
       Below 45 500 0  
       45 - 90 1,000 0  
       91 - 180 1,250 0  
       181 - 270 1,500 0  
       271 - 450 1,750 0  
       451 - 675 2,000 0  
       676 - 900 2,250 0  
       Over 901 2,250 0
        Rs. 500 for each 90 square  
       meters exceeding 90  
03. Approval for solution of preliminary  C Processsing chargers 
 plan    Lands below 100 square meters   2,000 
  (i) For sub division of land   1,001 square meters to 5,000 sq. m.  5,000 
     5,001 square meters to 10,000  10,000 
     For every 1,000 square meters   
       exceeding 10,000  1,000
  (ii) Construction of buildings/additions/    Residential  Commercial or other  
   reconstruction     2,000  5,000
        
  (iii) Boundary walls/security erection C   1,500  3,000
     
  (iv) Filling of lands/fields C  Lands below 150 sq.  2,500
     151-300 sq. meters  5,000 
      For each 150 sq. m.  3,000
     Exceeding sq. m. 301
  (v) Telephone/telecommunication C  (i) high 5.20 meters   20,000
       For every 1 meters 
       Exceeding 20m. high   100 0
  (vi) Special development projects   (i) Small scale less than Rs. 5m. projects 10,000
      (ii) Middle scale projects Rs. 5-50m.  50,000
      (iii) Large scale projects more than Rs. 50m.  150,000
 Nature of development work From should The charges
  be used  

<!-- page 121 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1765
04. Issue of certificates of conformity (for all  D Charger for the issue of certificates of conformity 
  construction/development certificates of 
 conformity should be obtained)
  (i) Sub division of lands   (i) 1,000 for the 1st block of land exceeding one Rs. 500 for  
       each
  (ii) Residential construction Commercial    (ii) Less than 300 square meters Rs. 3,000 exceeding 1 square 
   and others     meters Rs. 10 
       Less than 100 square meters Rs. 3,000 exceeding 1 square 
       meters Rs. 20
  (iii) Boundary walls/security Erections   (iii) First 100 meters in length Rs. 1,000 and exceeding each  
      square meter at the rate of Rs. 10 
  (iv) Filling of lands/field   (iv) Below 150 square meters Rs. 3,000 and over Rs. 20 for  
      each square meter 
  (v) Telephone/telecommunication towers   (v) From 5 meters to 20 meters Rs. 2,000 and additional 01  
      meter at the rate of Rs. 100
  (vi) Special projects   (vi)  Small scale Rs. 5,000
       Middle scale Rs. 10,000
       Large scale Rs. 20,000
05. Motor car parking places   Service charges 
 (Service charges for a motor car parking fee   Light vehicles and cars   500,000
 not supplied, but charges prescribed in   Lorry    1,000,000
 terms of Urban Development Authority)  Large vehicles including 
      Containers   2,500,000
      For all vehicles   250,000
06. Grant of covering approval  Charges for grant of covering approval.
  (i) Sub dividing of lands without a proper   Rs. 750 for one block of land 
   license 
  (ii) Construction of building without a   Charges for residential  Charges 
   proper development license/  01 sq. meter commercial and 
   additions/reconstruction      other for 01 sq. m.
  * Construction stage completion of     Rs. 200 Rs. 500
     foundation (D. P. C. level)
  * Construction up to roof level     Rs. 300 Rs. 1,000
     (without roof)
  * Construction with the roof    Rs. 400 Rs. 1,500
  * Completed fully    Rs. 500 Rs. 2,000
  (iii) Boundary wall security erection    Rs. 400 Rs. 400
  (iv) Filling lands/field    Rs. 5,000 for each 150 square feet
  (v) Telephone/telecommunication towers    Rs. 10,000 for each 5 meters in high 
  (vi) Special development projects    Rs. 10,000 for each 05 million
  (vii) Residing using or taking advantages     Rs. 50 per day
   without certificate of conforming
 Nature of development work From should The charges
  be used  

<!-- page 122 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1766
07. The charges for using a residential unit for any other purpose : 
 (i) If the relevant property is situated in a special primary zone for residence Rs. 2,000 for one meter will be 
charged for converting one unit for any other purpose. 
 (ii) If the relevant property is situated in a special non-residential primary zone Rs. 800 for one meter will be 
charged for converting a unit for any other purpose. 
08. To allow the additional payment more than the prescribed floor area propotion the service charges will be accounted 
as a percentage of building construction stages. The percentage will be differed based on the following proofs from 40% to 
10%.
 (i) Place where the building is situated.
 (ii) The condition of available common facilities.
 (iii) Type of development. 
 (iv) Outside interferences.
 (v) The zonal situated if a development plan is prepared. 
The minimum cost of the buildings should not exceed the following when accounting the above : 
 (i) Residential houses Rs. 20,000 for square meter 
 (ii) Residential houses up to four stories, commercial and office building  Rs. 30,000 for square meter 
 (iii) Residential houses more than four stories, commercial and office building Rs. 60,000 for square meter 
 (iv) Building for light industries Rs. 45,000 for square meter 
 (v) Warehouses Rs. 30,000 for square meter 
11–670/11
––––––––––––––––––––
BALAPItIy A   PrADeShIy A   SABhA
Processing charges, Service charges converting approval charges and charges payable to Pradeshiya Sabha 
Balapitiya for Services renders and use of Properties belong to Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha housing and town 
Development ordinance
it  is hereby notified to the general public that the following proposal was adopted according to the Balapitiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha Secretary Decision Number 780 dated 24th October, 2017. 
 a. h. raVindra lasantha,
 Secretary,
 Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha office,
Balapitiya,
24th October, 2017.
Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha proposes to charge the rates mentioned in the schedule given below for year 2018, 
in respect of the development activities within Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha limits and processing charges for sub division 
of lands. Service charges converting approval char ges in terms of the powers generally applicable to the limits where the 
housing and town development ordinance is in implementation. 

<!-- page 123 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1767
SChEDULE
Processing charges, granting of covering approval charges and service charges.
 Nature of Development  Prescribe Charges
   form
01. Issue of development permits for  A Processing charges 
 sub division of lands   (i) No. of land blocks   charges for one block of land  
       excluding  roads ditches and  
       common land blocks 
       Square meters 150-300   Rs. 200
       Square meters 301- 600  Rs. 300
       Square meters 601- 900  Rs. 400
       Square meters over 901  Rs. 500
      (ii) Charges for covering approval for one lot at Rs. 750. 
02. Construction of Buildings/Issue of  B    Floor area in  Residential  Commercial 
 Development Permits for partition    square meters Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 
       Below 45 250  0 500  0
       45 - 90 750  0 1,000  0
       91 - 180 1,250  0 1,500  0
       181 - 270 3,500  0 4,000  0
       271 - 450 4,500  0 6,000  0
       451 - 675 5,500  0 8,000  0
       676 - 900 6,500  0 10,000  0
       901 - 1,225 7,500  0 12,000  0
       Over 1,225 7,500  0 12,000  0
       Rs. 1,000 for additional :  Rs. 1,250  0
       Every 90 square meters     For additional every 90sq. m.
       above sq. m. 1,226 over 1,226 sq. m.
  Construction/Additions/Reconstructions    (ii) Charges for covering Approval  
 without proper Development Permit    Charge for 01 meter  Charge for 01 meter for 
       Residential category  commercial and others
  (i) Foundation only (plinth level) when     Rs. 20 Rs. 40
   completed
  (ii) Up to roof level (without roof) when    Rs. 40 Rs. 80
   constructed 
  (iii) Constructed with the roof    Rs. 60 Rs. 120
  (iv) When completed in full    Rs. 100 Rs. 200
03. Construction of boundary walls division and    B  (i) Processing charges :
 construction issue of development permits    For one long meter in  Commercial or any other 
       residential properties purpose for one long  
       meter
  * Outside building limit    Rs. 30 Rs. 60
  * Within building limit    Rs. 50 Rs. 100
      
      (ii) Covering approval charges 
       rs. 60 rs. 120 

<!-- page 124 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1768
04. Change of usage in a residential unit   B Processing charges 
     Floor aera square meters Rs. cts.  
       Below 45 250  0  
       45 - 90 500  0  
       91 - 180 750  0  
       181 - 270 1,500  0  
       271 - 450 1,750  0  
       451 - 675 2,000  0  
       676 - 900 2,250  0  
       Over 901 2,250  0
       For each 90 square meters in excess of 901 square 
       meters Rs. 500 each  
05. Approval for clearance of preliminary plan C Processing charges :  Rs.  
 and issue of development permits  Below 150 sq. m. 250 
  (i) Filling of lands, fields  151-300 sq. m. 500 
     For each 150 sq. m.  250 each
     Exceeding sq. m. 301 
     Covering approval charges for each 150 sq. m. Rs. 500
  (ii) Telephone/Telecommunication towers  Processing charges 
     height of 5-20 meters Rs. 20,000
     For each 01 meter over 20 Rs. 100  each
     meters height
  (iii) Special development project   (i) Small scale project below Rs. 5 m.10,000
      (ii) Middle scale projects Rs. 5-50 m. 50,000
      (iii) Large scale projects more than Rs. 50 m. 150,000
06. Issue of certificate of conformity (certificate C
 of conformity should be obtained for each 
 erection)
  (i) Residential construction  Rs. 2 for each square meter below 300 square meter Rs. 500 and over.
  (ii) Commercial or others construction  Rs. 4 for each square meter below 100 square meter Rs. 1,000 and  
      over.
  (iii) Sub division of lands   Rs. 4 for each square meter below 150 square meter Rs. 500 and over.
  (iv) Filling of lands/field  Rs. 250 for below 150 square meter and Rs. 4 for each 01 square  
    meter   exceeds the extent
  (v) Telephone/Telecommunication towers  height of 5-20 meters 2,000 for each 01 meter over 20 meters  
     height Rs. 100 each 
  (vi) Special projects  For small scale Rs. 1,000
     For middle scale Rs. 2,000 
     For large scale Rs. 3,500
  (vii) Residing /using without certificate of   Rs. 5 per day
   conformity 
 Nature of Development  Prescribe Charges
   form

<!-- page 125 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1769
07. Vehicle parking places (Though prescribed by C Service charge Rs.   
 rural development authority orders but the  For all vehicles 50,000
 places not reserved)
08. Charge for using a residential unit for some other purpose : 
 (i) If the property concerned is situated in a residential zone one unit is to be converted for some other purpose the 
charge for one square meter is Rs. 2,000.
 (ii) If the property concerned is situated in some other zone to convert residential unit for some other purpose Rs. 800 
for one square meter. 
  Rs. cts.
09. Leasing charges for a playground belongs to Pradeshiya Sabha to hold displays/ 1,000  0
 sales per day
 Refundable security deposit 2,000  0
10. Leasing charges for playground to hold shows free of charges per day 500  0
 Refundable security deposit 2,000  0
11. Charges for the hall to hold meeting seminars, lectures and exhibitions  
 Free of charge for one day (50% for half day) 600  0
 Electricy for one day (50% for half day) 500  0
 For water (50% for half day) 100  0
 Security deposit (without the materials and other facilities) 2,000  0
12. Educational seminars, educational workshops conducted by schools charging  Free of charge
 fees hall charges    
 Electricity for one day (50% for half day) 500  0
 For water (50% for half day) 100  0
 Security deposit (without the materials and other facilities) 2,000  0
13. Educational seminars, educational workshops conducted by school 600 0
 Charging fees hall charges per day (50% for half day)  
 Electricity for one day (50% for half day) 500  0
 For water (50% for half day) 100  0
 Security deposit (without the materials and other facilities) 2,000  0
14. Seminars, workshops and meetings counted private educational 
 Institutions charging fees 
 hall charges for a day (50% for half day) 1,000  0
 Electricity for a day (50% for half day) 500  0
 For water (50% for half day) 100  0
 Security deposit (without the materials and other facilities) 2,000  0
15. Conducting sports and social functions book fairs, flower exhibitions and 
 variety goods exhibitions hall fee (50% for half day) 1,500  0
 Electricy for one day (50% for half day) 500  0
 Nature of Development  Prescribe Charges
   form

<!-- page 126 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1770
 For water (50% for half day) 100  0
 Security deposit (without the materials and other facilities) 2,000  0
16. Fees of loudspeakers systems 2,500  0
17. Fee of plastic chair 5  0
18. Charge for street line certificate 250  0
19. Charge for non vesting certificate 150  0
20. Summary of deed extract form (A. T. form) 150  0
21. Dangerous trees form 500  0
22. Building application form 200  0
23. Environment permit form 150  0
24. Tender forms 500  0
25. Certificate of ownership form 150  0
26. Extract of assessment form 40  0
27. Sub division of land form 100  0
28. Library membership application form - Adults 100  0
29. Library membership application form - School children 50  0
30. Charge for entering a new number in the assessment register entering the owner’s name 100  0
31. Leasing the concrete mixer (8.00 a. m. to 5.00 p. m.) per day  250  0 
 For each additional hour (without the fuel and operator) 2,500  0
32. Photocopy charge for one side of A4 paper for library members 2  0
 for two pages 3  0
33. Charges for any other certificate 150 0 
34. Copy of a non compensation agreement 50  0
35. Removal of refusal (hotels, factories, commercial sites) in private sector   1,200  0
 for one trip (fully loaded tractor) no charge will be levied for a distance of 4km. 
 from Pradeshiya Sabha head office or a sub office for each additional 01km. Rs. 50 
 will be charged as transport charge.
36. Gully service charge - within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits for one time travel 4,500  0
37. Gully service charge - outside the Pradeshiya Sabha limits for one time travel 5,000  0
38. Crematorium charge - within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits  6,000  0
39. Crematorium charge - outside the Pradeshiya Sabha limits  7,000  0
40. Water bowser service within the limits (exclude water) 3,000  0
41. Stone related machine service with driver and fuel for 8 hours 10,000  0
42. Dump truck vehicle service with driver and fuel for 8 hours 13,000  0
43. Backhoe Loader machine service charge - (per 1 hour) 2,200  0
11–670/12
  Rs. cts.

<!-- page 127 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1771
Pradeshiya   sabha   Nawagaththegama
imposing Charges for the y ear 2018 in respect of issuing License under the by- laws of maintaining a Certain 
industry
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, Herath 
Mudiyanselage Samansiri Herath, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama who execute powers and 
discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama do hereby notify to the public that I have decided to impose 
license fees for the year 2018 in respect of the area of auhority of Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama as follows under the 
resolution No. 2841 dated 19th October 2017 in terms of provision of Section 147 and Section 149 of the said Act.
Further it is hereby notified that the Business License should be obtained by every person who carries out any 
business referred to in the Column I of the following Schedule before 31st March 2018.
 H. M. S.  
HeratH,
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama,
19th October, 2017.
ResoLution
By virtue of powers vested in me under Section 147 and Section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 
to be read with Sub section (3) of Section 9 of the said Act, I resolve to impose a license fee in respect of the issue of a 
license authorizing a certain place or a premises to be utilized in the area of Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama for any 
purpose referred to in the Column ii under the standard By-laws set out in the Column i, as per the rates specified in the 
correspondimg Column III of the same Schedule, for the year 2018 under the said By-law or a By- law made under the said 
By-law or a standard By-law adopted by Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama and published in the Gazette of Democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka no. 1676 dated 15.10.2010 and 1736 dated 09.12.2011.
Further, in case the industry reffered to in the Schedule is a hotel, a restaurant or a lodge registered with or approved 
and accepted by the tourist Board in sri Lanka under tourist Board Act, no. 14 of 1968, to impose and levy a license fee of 
one percent (1%) of receiving in the year 2017 from the said hotel, restaurant or lodge for the year 2018.
Further it is hereby notified that the relevant Business License of the rates referred to in the Column iii in the 
following Schedule should be obtained by every person who carries out any businesses before 31st March 2018.
aforesaid scHedule
 Column I  Column II  Column III
     Annual value of the place
 Standard By-law Serial Authorized purpose When not When exceeds When
  No.  exceeding Rs. 750 but does exceeds
    Rs. 750 not exceed  Rs. 1,500
      Rs. 1,500 
    Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Hotels 01 Running a hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Eateries, cafeterias,  01 An eatery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
tea or coffee boutiques 02 t ea boutique 300 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03 Cafeteria 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 128 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1772
 04 Running a coffee shop 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
Bakeries 01 Running a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Dairy farms selling milk 01 Manufactory of milk products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
selling milk 01 selling fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Selling meat 01 A place for selling meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Ice factories 01 Manufacturing ice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Cooled drink factories 01 Manufacturing cold drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Laundries 01 Running a laundary 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Hair doing and barber shops 01 Running a saloon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Hazardous Business 
Hazardous, Dangerous,  01 Purifying or storing graphite 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Hazardous and Dangerous 02 Manufacture or storing manure or  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Businesses  chemical manure for sale
 03 Curing leather 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04 Storing leather for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05 Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06 Manufacture of Maldives fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07 Running a veterinary hospital 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08 Storing perishable food and food stuff  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  for whole sale
 09 storing dried fish, salted fish or jadi more 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
  than 150 kgs
 10 Making Jadi from meat or fish, drying and icing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 11 Manufacture of coconut coal or timber coal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 12 Drying tobacoo 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 13 Manufacture of animal food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 14 Manufacture of Punnac 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 15 Fermentation of animal meat or animal blood 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 16 Manufacture of  soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17 Grinding and storing of animal bones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 18 Making trunk boxes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 19 Storing new or old metal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 Column I  Column II  Column III
     Annual value of the place
 Standard By-law Serial Authorized purpose When not When exceeds When
  No.  exceeding Rs. 750 but does exceeds
    Rs. 750 not exceed  Rs. 1,500
      Rs. 1,500 
    Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 129 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1773
 20 Storing metal scrapes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 21 Manufacture of furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 22 Manufacture of cane products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 23 Running a carpenter factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 24 Manufacture of syrups or fruit juices 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 25 Manufacture of sweets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 26 soaking coconut husks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 27 Manufacture of brushes  500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
  (other than tooth brushes)
 28 Manufacture of tooth brushes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 29 Collecting toddy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 30 Manufacture of vinegar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 31 Sawing timber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 32 Manufacture of paints, varnish or distemper 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 33 Manufacture of  Soda 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 34 Dying fibre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 35 Manufacture of leather products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 36 t inning fruits, fish or other product 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 37 Grinding coffee, and grains 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 38 Manufacture of baking powder 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 39 Manufacture of gas mantel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 40 Manufacture of potty 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 41 Manufacture of candles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 42 Manufacture of camphor 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 43 Manufacture of writing ink, printing  500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
  ink and stencil ink
 44 Manufacture of washing blue 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 45 Manufacture of lacquer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 46 Manufacture of perfumes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 47 Manufacture of school chalk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 48 Manufacture of tyres or tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 49 Retreating tyres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 50 Vulcanizing tyres or tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 51 Manufacture of cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 52 Manufacture of cement products or asbestos 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 53 Manufacture of sand paper 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 54 Manufacture of plastic ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 55 Kilning bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 56 Mechanized weaving textiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 57 Manufacture of acids and refill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 58 Manufacture of roofing tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 Column I  Column II  Column III
     Annual value of the place
 Standard By-law Serial Authorized purpose When not When exceeds When
  No.  exceeding Rs. 750 but does exceeds
    Rs. 750 not exceed  Rs. 1,500
      Rs. 1,500 
    Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 130 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1774
 59 Cleaning and selling gunny bags contained 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
  manure, lime powder or other products
 60 Manufacture of mechanized cement blocks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 Dangerous Businesses 
 01 Blasting or mining Mattel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 02 Manufacture of vegetable oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 03 Manufactrure of coconut oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 04 Manufacture or storing matches 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05 Manufacture of methylated spirits 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 06 Manufacture of tea boxes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07 Manufacture of coir or other products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08 Manufacture coir or other products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09 Storing hey 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10 Storing used garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11 Manufacture and repair of jewelries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12 Mechanized timber sawing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13 Mining lime or quartz 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14 Running a smithy by using machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15 Storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16 Repair of bicycles and motor bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17 Storing used papers and newspapers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18 Spray printing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19 storing fireworks or crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20 Manufacture of metal products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
  (machineries, tools)
 Hazardous and Dangerous Business 
  01 Purifying mica 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 02 Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom or 500 0 750 0 1,000 0  
  other spice by using chemicals
 03 Dry cleaning or dying 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 04 Fabric printing, dying or bathik 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 05 Electroplate 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 06 Manufacture of oil or animal fat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 07 Kilning lime or quartz 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 08 Manufacture of fireworks or crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 09 Processing cod- liver oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 10 Making boats 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 Column I  Column II  Column III
     Annual value of the place
 Standard By-law Serial Authorized purpose When not When exceeds When
  No.  exceeding Rs. 750 but does exceeds
    Rs. 750 not exceed  Rs. 1,500
      Rs. 1,500 
    Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 131 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1775
 11 Recharging or repair of batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 12 Welding metals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 13 Repair of motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 14 Servicing motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15 Grinding metal by machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 16 Running a casting shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 17 Running a tin work shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 18 Making bodies for motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 19 Manufacture or refill of pesticides, 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
  fungicides, weedicide and insecticides 
 20 Manufacture of disinfectors 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 21 Manufactur e of mosquito coils 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11-825/1
––––––––––––––––––––– 
Pradeshiya   sabha   Nawagaththegama
imposing industrial tax for the y ear 2018
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, Herath 
Mudiyanselage Samansiri Herath the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama who execute powers and 
discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama do hereby notify to the public that I have decided to impose 
industrial tax for the year 2018 in respect of every industry carried out within the area of auhority of Pradeshiya sabha 
Nawagaththegama as follows under the resolution No. 2842 dated 19 October 2017 in terms of provision of Sub section (1) 
of Section 150 of the said Act.
 H. M. S.  
HeratH,
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama,
19th October, 2017.
Resolution
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub section (1) of  Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to 
be read with Sub section (3) of Section 9 of the said Act, I do hereby determine that, an industrial tax for the year 2018 on 
each industry carried out within the administrative limits of Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama referred to in Column I in 
the following schedule as per the rates specified in the correspondimg Column ii should be imposed and levied and the said 
industrial tax should be paid to the Pradeshiya sabha nawagaththegama before 31st of January 2018.
 Column I  Column II  Column III
     Annual value of the place
 Standard By-law Serial Authorized purpose When not When exceeds When
  No.  exceeding Rs. 750 but does exceeds
    Rs. 750 not exceed  Rs. 1,500
      Rs. 1,500 
    Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 132 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1776
 01 A place for dress making 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
 02 A place for framing pictures 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
 03 Drawing advertisements, banners, cutouts and posters 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
 04 Running a printing press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05 A place for repairing electric items 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
 06 A place for manufacturing incense sticks 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
11–825/2
–––––––––––––––––––
Pradeshiya   sabha   Nawagaththegama
imposing business tax for the y ear 2018
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub section (3) of section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, Herath 
Mudiyanselage Samansiri Herath the secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama who execute powers and discharge 
duties of the Pradeshiya sabha nawagaththegama do hereby notify to the public that i have decided to impose Business tax 
for the year 2018 in respect the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama as follows under the resolution             
No. 2843 dated 19th October 2017 in terms of provision of Sub section (1) of Section 152 of the said Act.
 H. M. S.  
HeratH,
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama,
19th October, 2017.
ResoLution
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama under Sub section (1) of  Section 152 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub section (3) of Section 9 of the said Act, I do hereby determine 
that a business tax should be imposed for the year 2018 from each person who maintains, within the area of authority of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama in 2018, any business for which a license should not be obtaimed under provisions of 
any by-law made there under or any tax which is not required to be paid under Section 150 of the said Act, in case the receipts 
in the year 2017 of the said business fall within the limits of any object number indicated in the column i, as per the rates 
specified in the corresponding column ii of the following schedule and the said Business tax should be paid to the Pradeshiya 
sabha nawagaththegama before 31st of January 2018.
 Column I    Column II
 Serial Authorized purpose  Annual value of the place
 No.
   When not When exceeds When
   exceeding Rs. 750 but does exceeds
   Rs. 750 not exceed  Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500 
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 133 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1777
AFoResAiD sCheDuLe
  Column I Column II
  Income received in 2017 Rs. cts.
1 in case not exceeding Rs. 6000 0 non
2 in case exceeding Rs. 6,000 0 but not exceeding Rs. 12,000 0 90 0
3 In case exceeding Rs. 12,000 0 but not exceeding Rs. 18,750 0 180 0
4 in case exceeding Rs. 18,750 0 but not exceeding Rs. 75,000 0 360 0
5 In case exceeding Rs. 75,000 0 but not exceeding Rs. 150,000 0 1,200 0
6 When exceeding Rs. 150,000 0 3,000 0
11-825/3
–––––––––––––––––––
Pradeshiya   sabha,  Nawagaththegama
imposing Charges on advertisements for the year 2018
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, Herath 
Mudiyanselage Samansiri Herath, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama who execute powers and 
discharge duties of the Pradeshiya sabha nawagaththegama do hereby notify to the public that i have decided to impose tax 
on Advertisements for the year 2018 within the area of auhority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Nawagaththegama as follows under 
the resolution No. 2844 dated 19th October, 2017.
 H. M. S.  HeratH,
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Nawagaththegama.
office of Pradeshiya sabha, nawagaththegama,
19th October, 2017.
ResoLution
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15 of 1987, 
I,hereby determine that charges mentioned in the following Schedule for 2018 in respect of the display of Advertisements 
in the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama should be imposed in terms of the provisions set out in the 
By law no. 39 on Advertisements / visual environment approved and published by the hon. Minister of Local Government, 
Housing and Construction, published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 570/7 on 23rd August 1988 which has been adopted 
by the Pradeshiya Sabha, Nawagaththegama by virtue of powers vested under Section 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 
of 1987.
scHedule
01. For a permanent advertisement displayed on a wall or board or per sq. ft. (per annum) Rs.60 0
02. For an advertisement displayed on a banner for a period less than 01 month per sq. ft. Rs.20 0
03. For an advertisement displayed on a banner for a period not less than 01 month and not  
 more than 03 months per sq. ft. Rs.30 0
04. For an advertisement displayed on a banner for a period not less than 03 month and not  
 more than 06 months per sq. ft. Rs.40 0
05. For an advertisement displayed on a banner for a period not less than 06 month and not  
 more than one year per sq. ft. Rs.50 0
11-825/4

<!-- page 134 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1778
Pradeshiya   sabha,   Nawagaththegama
imposing Charges under the by law on Parking Vehicles within the area of authority of 
Pradeshiya sabha for the y ear 2018
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub section (3) of Section 9 of Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, Herath 
Mudiyanselage Samansiri Herath, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Nawagaththegama who execute powers and 
discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Nawagaththegama do hereby notify to the public that I have decided to impose 
tax on Advertisements for the Year 2018 within the area of auhority of Pradeshiya sabha, nawagaththegama as follows 
under the resolution No. 2845 dated 19th October, 2017.
 H. M. S.  
HeratH,
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Nawagaththegama.
At the office of Pradeshiya sabha, nawagaththegama,
19th October, 2017.
ResoLution
By virtue of powers vested in the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government under paragraph (a) of 
sub section (1) of section 2 of Local Government (incidental Provisions) Act, no. 12 of 1989 to be read with Chapter 261, 
sub section (1) of section 2 of Local Government (standard by laws) Act no. 06 of 1952, the By law on Parking Vehicles 
within the limits of Pradeshiya sabha, nawagaththegama compiled by the hon. Minister in Charge of Local Government 
in the North Western Province and published in Part IV (A) of the Gazette paper of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka no. 1663 dated 16.07.2010 and published in Part iV (A) of Extraordinary Gazette No. 1703/18 dated 28.04.2011 to 
the effect that the said by law was passed at the Provincial Council Meeting held on 09.12.2011 and it has been accepted by 
the Pradeshiya Sabha, Nawagaththegama and published Gazette no. 1736 and i hereby resolve for the Year 2018, to levy 
an annual license fee of  Rs. 600 from vehicles parked at places decaled as suitable parking places (other than in the public 
bus stand of nawagaththegama) and Rs. 50 per day from a bus parked in the public bus stand, on adoption of resolution 
by virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya sabha under By Laws no. (04) and (05) of standard by law accepted by the 
Pradeshiya sabha “parking vehicles within the area of authority of Pradeshiya sabha” and by virtue of powers vested in the 
Pradeshiya sabha, nawagaththegama under By Law no. 15 of the said standard By laws to levy a fee of Rs. 50 from each 
vehicle parked at any road or a street within the limits of Pradeshiya sabha with the purpose of earning an income, and by 
virtue of powers vested under By Law no. (05), such fees to be paid before 31st January, 2018 and parking fees under By 
law (15) to be paid at the time of parking of such vehicles.
aforesaid scHedule
 01. Parking place for hiring vehicles in front of Garment Junction Welewewa
 02. Parking place for hiring vehicles at Mullegama Junction
 03. Parking place for hiring vehicles near clock tower nawagaththegama
 04. Parking place for hiring vehicles in front of bus stand nawagaththegama
11-825/5

<!-- page 135 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1779
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
imposition of assessment taxes for the year 2018
By  Virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 134(1) read with Section 9.3 of pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, 
K. A. Chandana Padmasiri, secretary of he seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, who exercise, perform and discharge of powers, 
duties and functions of seethawaka pradeshiya sabha, decided under the no. 9261 on 12.10.2017 and announce hereby 
that terms of Assessment taxes for the year 2018 for the local authority area of seethawaka pradeshiya sabha should be as 
follows.
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and officer in exercise,
 Perform and discharge of powers, duties and functions.
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At the head office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
On 12th October, 2017.
DECISION
By virtue of the powers vested in seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha under sub section (1) of section 146 of Pradeshiya sabha 
Act No.15 of 1987, under the Gazette notification no. 1486 dated 23rd February, 2007 and Gazette notification no. 1374 
dated December 31, 2004 of the Democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, i decide, Assessment/Certification for the year 
2015 For houses, buildings, lands, in developed areas as published and located in the local authority area of seethawaka 
pradeshiya sabha should be set as the Assessment/Certification for the year 2018 and on that assessment by virtue of the 
powers vested in me under Sub section 134 (1) read with Section 9.3 of pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, annual 
assessment tax of a percentage of the annual assessment of the property as per the 2nd column of the first and second 
schedules below for the above assesment on the mentioned property should be charged.
Further, the prescribed annual taxes for 2018 should be paid to the Pradeshiya sabha Fund,
Before the date specified in the preceeding quarter in the third schedule and if an annual assessment tax pay on or 
before 31st January of that year, a discount of ten  percent (10%) of the annual assessment tax and if the relevent assessment 
tax pay to the  Pradeshiya sabha quarterly before the specified day of the said schedule, a discount of five percent (5%) of 
the annual assessment tax, should be provided by the pradeshiya Sabha.
tHe above mentioned first scHedule
 1st Column IInd Column
      Developed village area Percentage of the 
 assessment tax
hanwella Developed village area 6%
Padukka, Kahahena, Kosgama and Kaluaggala Developed village area 6%
Pitumpe Developed village area 4%

<!-- page 136 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1780
tHe above mentioned second scHedule
 1st Column IInd Column
 Developed village area percentage of the 
  assessment tax
Both sides of the road from Artigala bridge at hanwella lowlevel road to the junction at 
Kaluagala where the low level road and highlevel road meet, and the area of 301m. both 
sides of the main road from the Galagedara bridge at highlevel road to Puwakpitiya. 6%
the area of 201m both sides of the road form Galagedara junction to udumulla  4%
the area of 120 m both sides of the Kahawala road from udumulla junction 4%
the area of 120 m both sides of the Colombo road from Meepe junction to the end of Pahala Bope 4%
the area of 120m both sides of the road from the ihala Bope junction to Gurulana 4%
the area of 201m both sides of the road from the Kaluaggala junction to Labugama road thummodara 4%
the area of 201m both sides of the road from the Pitumpe Pinthaliya to Wewelpanawa road 4%
the area of 201m both sides of the road from Kosgama to the first culvert closed to the Kanampella  4%
 road police and the area of 120m both sides of the road from  there to the end of the road 
the area of 120m both sided of the Aswathta Road 4%
the area of 120m both sides of the Akarawita road from salawa junction 4%
the area of 120 m both sides of the road from Pahala Bope to Padukka 4%
the area of 120m both sides of the road from Gurulana to udugama Pradeshiya sabha limits 4%
the area of 120m both sides of the road from Ihala Bope to Ingiriya Road Pradeshiya Sabha limits 4%
the area of 120m both sides of the road from Pahathgama to Wewelpanawa 4%
the area of 120m both sides of the road from Wewelpanawa to Sunday fair 4%
the ABoVe MentioneD thiRD sCheDuLe
 Ist Column IInd Column IIIrd Column
 Quarter due date The last day entitle for 
   5% discount
First Quarter March, 31 2018 January, 31 2018
second Quarter June, 30 2018 April 30, 2018
third Quarter september , 30 2018 July, 31 2018
Fourth Quarter December,31 2018 October, 31 2018
   this notification in published in sinhala, tamil and english languages and in the event of any inconsistency among 
the text, Sinhala text shall Enforced.
11-734/1
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
imposition of acre tax for the year 2018
By virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 134 read with Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,No.15 of 1987, I K. 
A. Chandana Padmasiri, secretary of the  seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, who exercise, perform and discharge of powers, 
duties and functions of seethawaka pradeshiya sabha, decided under the no. 9262 on 12.10.2017 and announce hereby that 

<!-- page 137 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1781
annual acre tax of Rs. 10.00 on each and every permanent land or lands under regular cultivation consist of 5 heectare and 
each and every hectare above, should be chaged for the Year 2018 for the local authority area of seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha should be as follows.
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and officer in exercise,
 Perform and discharge of Powers, Duties and Functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha.
At the head office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
On 12th October, 2017,
Hanwella.
DECISION
Further, the prescribed annual taxes for 2018 should be paid to the Pradeshiya sabha Fund, Before the date specified in 
the preceding quarter in the following schedule, and if an annual Acre tax pay on or before 31st January of that year, a 
discount  of ten percent (10%) of the annual acre tax, and if the relevant acre tax pay to the pradeshiya sabha quarterly 
before the specified day of the said schedule, a discount of five percent (5%) of the annual acre tax, should be provided by 
the pradeshiya Sabha.
tHe above mentioned scHedule
 Ist Column IInd Column IIIrd Column
 Quarter due date The last day entitle for 
   5% discount
First Quarter March, 31 2018 January, 31 2018
second Quarter June, 30 2018 April 30, 2018
third Quarter september , 30 2018 July, 31 2018
Fourth Quarter December,31 2018 October, 31 2018
this notification is published in sinhala, tamil and english languages and in the event of any inconsistency among the text, 
Sinhala tex shall Enforced.
11-734/2
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha
imposition of Licence Fee for the year 2018
By virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 149 and Section 147 read with Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
no. 15 of 1987, i, K. A. Chandana Padmasiri, secretary of the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, who exercise, perform and 
discharge of powers, duties and functions of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, decided under the no. 9256 on 12.10.2017 and 
announce hereby that terms of revenue licence for the Year 2018 for the local authority area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha 
should be as follows.
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and officer in exercise perform
 and discharge of powers, duties and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha.
At the head office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
Hanwella,
On 12th October, 2017.

<!-- page 138 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1782
DECISION
By virtue of the powers vested in seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, under section 149 and section 147 read with section 9.3 
of Pradeshiya sabha Act, no. 15 of 1987, i decide that, it should be prescribed a License fee depicted in Column ii of that 
Schedule for the year 2018 in respect of any license issued in 2018 granting authority to use a place or premises within 
the local authority area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha for any work that is depicted in the 1st Column in the following 
schedule explained by a by -law specified under that act or by such act.
   Further, I decide that 1% of the annual turnover by the year 2017 of the said place or premises should be paid as 
the Licence fee for the Year 2018 which issuing the relevant License, when the said place or premises is a relevant, hotel, 
Restaurant  or a Lodge, Approved for the purpose of tourism under the tourist Board Act, no.14 of 1968.
tHe above mentioned scHedule
 I st Column                     IInd Column
 Tasks allowed  Annual value of the premises
  When not When exceeding When
  exceeding Rs. 750 and exceeding
  Rs. 750 not exceeding  Rs. 1,500
   Rs. 1,500 
   Rs.  cts.   Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
 1. Conducting a lodging house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 2. Hotels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 3. Rice and curry shops, restaurants and tea, coffee shops 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 4. Bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 5. Dairy farming and business 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 6. selling of foods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 7. selling of fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 8. Selling of meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 9. soft drink factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Ice factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Laundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Maintaing a cattle shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Killer sheds 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Hairdressing salons and Barber shops 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Production or storing fertilizer or chemical fertilizer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. t anning leather 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Sale of leather 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Conducting a photo studio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Conducting Veterinary clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Keeping Worsening foods or Food items Stored for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Keeping more than 150 kg of Dried fish, salted fish or jaadi 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Keeping charcoal stored or manufacture of wood charcoal or  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Coconut shell charcoal
 24. Preparation of tobacco or conducting a tobacco warehouse 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Manufacture of animal food or Carrying on animal food store 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Manufacture of poonac or store an amount more than  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  200 kilogram 
 27. production of soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 139 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1783
 28. grinding or keeping Animal bones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29. Keeping new or old metal Stored 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. Keeping a Metallic debris material storage place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31. Manufacturing or keeping a furniture store 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32. Manufacturing  cane items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33. Conducting a Carpentry factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34. Manufacturing syrups or fruit juice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. Manufacturing sweets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36. soaking Coconut husks (or stangnating Coconut husks) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37. Manfucaturing brushes (excluding tooth brushes) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 38. Manufacturing tooth brushes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39. Collecting toddy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40. Manufacturing or storage of vinegar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 41. Conducting a timber sawing mill machanically or hand 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 42. Paint, varnish or distemper paint or store them more than 
  100 liters 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 43. Manufacturing Soda 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 44. Manufacturing leather goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 45. Packaging fruit, fish or other food in to the tin 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 46. Conducting a grinding mill to grind Chilli coffee, cereals, 
  legumes, spices or milk powder 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 47. Manufacturing Candle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 48. Manufacturing Camphor 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 49. Manufacturing writing ink, printing ink or stencil ink 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 50. Manufacturing washing blue 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 51. Manufacturing lacquers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 52. Manufacturing perfumes or Conducting a place to store 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 53. Manufacturing school chalk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 54. Keeping tires or tubes more than 50 stored 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 55. t ire refilling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 56. Conducting a location of the tire tubes volcanize 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 57. Keeping cement stored more than 1000 kg 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 58. Manufacturing Cement production items or asbestos cement items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 59. Manufacturing plastic goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 60. Weaving mechanically 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 61. Resale of cleaned sacks which contianed fertilizer, limestone 
  powder or other subtance 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 62. Manufacturing Cement blocks mechanically 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 63. Keep grain or legums stored More than 250 kg 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 64. Keeping flour, salt or sugar stored more than 750kg for selling 
  in bulk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 65. Manufacturing of garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 66. Conducting a printing press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 I st Column  IInd Column
 Tasks allowed  Annual value of the premises
  When not When exceeding When
  exceeding Rs. 750 and exceeding
  Rs. 750 not exceeding  Rs. 1,500
   Rs. 1,500 
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 140 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1784
 67. Conducting poultry shed or Chicken hut for more than  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  100 chickens 
 68. Conducting poultry shed or hut for more than 10 goats or pigs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 69. Keeping bricks or roof tile stored 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 70. Conducting firewood store 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 71. Excavating or crushing metal mechanically or by hand 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 72. Manfuacturing soft drinks or keeping soft drink bottels stored  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  more than 100 
 73. Manufacturing of Ice cream 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 74. Manufacturing Coconut oil or Keeping more than 300 liter stored 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 75. Manufacturing of box of matches or Keeping more than 100  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  dozen stored 
 76. Manufacturing of goods by coir or other types of fiber or keeping  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  stored them 
 77. Keeping used garments stored 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 78. Manufacturing or repairing of jewelry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 79. Sawing of timber mechanically 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 80. conducting machinery used factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 81. Keeping empty  sacks or empty bottles stored 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 82. Conducting a workshop for repair bicycles and motorcyles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 83. Keeping used papers or newspapers stored 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 84. Conducting a place for spary painting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 85. Manufacturing or storing of firework products or firecrackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 86. storing more than 50 liters of vegetable oil excluding Coconut oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 87. storing Frozen meat or fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 88. Storing of timber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 89. Powdering Cinnamon, Cardamom and cloves using chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 90. Dry cleaning or dyeing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 91. Fabric printing or dyeing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 92. Conducting an electrolytic metal plating place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 93. Limestone burning, Preparation or storing powdered limestone 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 94. Conducting of Electric battery charging place or repairing place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 95. Conducting a motor vehicle repairing center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 96. Conducting an automotive service station 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 97. Conducting a Molding shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 98. Conducting a tin workplace 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 99. Keeping gas cylinders stored 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 100. Manfacturing or composition of local and indigenous medicine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 101. Storing glassware or glass sheets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 102. Conducting a plastic or fiber allied equipment factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 103. Keeping tea stored more than 150kg 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 104. Conducting a place for welding 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 105. Conducting a workplace using Lathe Machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 I st Column  IInd Column
 Tasks allowed  Annual value of the premises
  When not When exceeding When
  exceeding Rs. 750 and exceeding
  Rs. 750 not exceeding  Rs. 1,500
   Rs. 1,500 
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 141 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1785
 106. Conducting a place storing of patrol, diesel, oil or any other  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Petroleum 
 107. Manufacturing or storing of agricultural chemical substances 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 108. Air conditioners, refrigerators or freezers servicing or reparing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 109. Conducting an electric workshop or manufacturing or repairing   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  of electrical equipment 
 110. Conducting a milk chilling center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 111. Conducting a plastic and polythene recycling center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
this notification is published in sinhala, tamil and english languages and in the event of any inconsistency,among the text, 
Sinhala text shall Enforced.
11-734/4
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
imposition of industrial tax for the year 2018
By  virtue of the powers vested in me under section 150 (1) read with section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, 
K. A. Chandana Padmasiri, secretary, of the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, who exercise, perform and discharge of powers, 
duties and functions of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, decided under the no. 9257 on 12.10.2017 and amounce hereby that 
terms of industrial, tax for the year 2018 for the local authority area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha should be as follows.
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and officer in exercise perform
 and discharge of powers, duties and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha.
At the head office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
Hanwella,
On 12th October, 2017.
DECISION
By virtue of the powers vested in seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, under section 1of section 150 read with section 
9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I decide that, it should be prescribed an industrial tax depicted in Column 
ii of that schedule for the Year 2018 in respect of any industry conducting within the local authority area of seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha depicted in the 1st Column in the following schedule.
 I st Column  IInd Column
 Tasks allowed  Annual value of the premises
  When not When exceeding When
  exceeding Rs. 750 and exceeding
  Rs. 750 not exceeding  Rs. 1,500
   Rs. 1,500 
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 142 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1786
t He  a bove  m entioned  s cHedule
 I st Column  IInd Column
 Industry  Annual value of the premises
  When not When exceeding When
  exceeding Rs. 750 and exceeding
  Rs. 750 not exceeding  Rs. 1,500
   Rs. 1,500 
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 
Production of exercise books 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
production of incence sticks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Production of brooms and ekle brooms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
repairing of watches 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
production of ornements and toys 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
replacing break liners and clutch plates 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
production and repairing of radiators and cylancers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
making synthetic flowers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
electrical works 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
production or rubber stamps 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
repairing of juki machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
production of paper bags and envelopes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
repairing of electronic weighing machines and cash registers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
   this notification is published in sinhala, tamil and english languages and in the event of any inconsistency among 
the text, Sinhala text shall Enforced.
11-734/5
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
impositions of business tax for the year 2018
By virtue of the powers vested in me under Sub section (1) of section 152 read with section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
no. 15 of 1987, i, K. A. Chandana Padmasiri, secretary of the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, who exercise, perform and 
discharge of powers, duties and functions of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, decided under the no. 9258 on 12.10.2017 and 
announce hereby that terms of Business tax for the year 2018 for the local authority area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha 
should be as follows.
 K. A. 
c Handana  P admasiri ,
 secretary and officer in exercise perform
 and discharge of powers, duties and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At the head office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
On 12th October, 2017.

<!-- page 143 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1787
DECISION
By virtue of the powers vested in seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, under sub section (1) of section 152 read with 
section 9.3 of Pradeshiya sabha Act, no. 15 of 1987, i decide that a Business tax depicted in the column ii should be 
charged for the year 2018, when the annual revenue of 2017 of that business in the limits depicted in column I of following 
schedule, From any person conducting a business in local authority area in seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha during 2018, 
unless any business which not required to pay any tax under section 150 of that Act, or obtaining a license under the said 
Act or under the regulations of by-laws of same Act.
the ABoVe MentioneD sCheDuLe
 Subject 1st Column 2nd Column
 Number Revenue of the business in 2017  Rs. Cents
 1. when not exceed Rs. 6,000 none
 2. When exceeds Rs. 6,000 and not exceeds Rs. 12,000 Rs. 90 0
 3. When exceeds Rs. 12,000 and not exceeds Rs. 18,750 Rs.180 0
 4. When exceeds Rs. 18,750 and not exceeds Rs. 75,000 Rs.360 0
 5. When exceeds Rs. 75,000 and not exceeds Rs. 150,000 Rs.1,200 0
 6. When exceeds Rs. 150,000 Rs.3,000 0
this notification is published in sinhala, tamil and english Languages and in the event of any inconsistency among 
the text, Sinhala text shall Enforced.
11-734/6
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Nuisance businesses, hazardous businesses and 
Nuisance hazardous businesses
I, K. A. Chandana Padmasiri the secretary of the 
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha enforcing powers of 
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha and perfoming tasks in 
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha by virtue of powers  vested 
in me by Section No. 9.3, Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 
1987 hereby announced that I have decided the directions  
in respect of businesses causing nuisance, hazardous 
businesses and nuisance hazardous businesses should be as 
follows with effect from the date 12.10.2017 under the No. 
9265 for the local area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha for 
the year- 2018.
DECISION 
I decide that all businesses mentioned in following First 
second and third schedule should be declared as nuisance 
businesses, hazardous businesses and nuisance hazardous 
businesses in the seethawaka Local Authority Area under 
the by-laws on nuisance businesses, hazardous businesses 
and nuisance hazardous businesses in terms of the approved 
by-laws which have been approved and accepted by the 
Western Provincial Council as amended by the no. 1976/21 
Extraodinary  Gazette notification dated 20 July 2016 by 
virtue of powers vested in the Minister of Local Government 
under section 2 of Act, no. 6 of 1952, in by -laws- prepared 
by him and approved in the Section iv (b) of the Extrordinary 
Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th December 2015 and appreciated 
by the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha on 01.01.2017.
FiRst sCheDuLe
Nuisance business :
 1. Storage or manufacture of fertilizer or chemical 
fertilizer
 2. Fanning of leather
 3. Selling leather
 4. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)
 5. Conducting a photo studio
 6. Conducting Veterinary clinic
 7. Keeping Worsening foods or Food item Stored for 
sale
 8. Keeping more than 150kg of Dried fish, salted fish 
or jaadi
 9. Keeping charcoal stored or manufacture of wood 
charcoal or Coconut shell charcoal
 10. Preparation of tobacco or conducting a tobacco 
warehouse

<!-- page 144 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1788
 11. Manufactu re of Animal food or Carrying on 
animal food store
 12. Manfacutre of poonac or store an amount more 
than 200 killogram
 13. Production of soap
 14. Grinding or keeping Animal bones
 15. Keeping new or old metal Stored
 16. Keeping  a Metallic debris material storege place
 17. Manufacturing or Keeping a furniture store
 18. Manufacturing cane items
 19. Conducting a Carpentry factory
 20. Manufacturing syrups or Fruit juice
 21. Manufacturing Sweets
 22. soaking Coconut husks (or stagnating Coconut 
husks)
 23. Manufacturing brushes (excluding tooth brushes)
 24. Manufacturing tooth brushes
 25. Collecting toddy
 26. Manufacturing or storage of vinegar
 27. Conducting a timber sawing mill mechanically or 
hand
 28. Paint, varnish or distemper paint or store them 
more than 100 liters
 29. Manufacturing Soda
 30. Manufacturing leather goods
 31. Packaging fruit, fish or other food in to the tin
 32. Conducting a grinding mill to grind chilli, coffee, 
cereals ma -sabho -ga spices or milk powder
 33. Manufaturing Candle
 34. Manufacturing Camphor
 35. Manufacturing writing ink, printing ink or stencil 
ink
 36. Manufacturing washing blue
 37. Manufacturing lacquers
 38. Manufacturing perfumes or Conducting a place to 
store
 39. Manufacturing school chalk
 40. Keeping tires or tubes more than 50 stored
 41. t ire retreading
 42. Conducting a location of the tire tubes volcanize
 43. Keeping cement stored more than 1,000kg
 44. Manufacturing Cement production items or 
asbestos cement items
 45. Manufacturing plastic goods
 46. Weaving mechanically
 47. Resale of cleaned sacks which contained Fertilizer, 
limestone powder or other substance
 48. Manufacturing Cement blocks mechanically
 49. Keep grain or legumes stored More than 250 kg.
seConD sCheDuLe
Stressful business :
 1. Keeping flour, salt or sugar stored more than 750 
kgs for selling in bulk
 2. Manfuacturing of garments
 3. Conducting a printing press
 4. Conducting poultry shed or chicken hut for more 
than 100 chickens
 5. Conducting poultry shed or hut for more than 10 
goats or pigs
 6. Keeping bricks or roof tile stored
 7. Conducting firewood store
 8. excavating or crushing metal mechanically or by 
hand
 9. Manufacturing soft drinks or keeping soft drink 
bottels stored more than 100
 10. Manufacturing of lce cream
 11. Manufacturing Coconut oil or keeping more than 
300 liter stored
 12. Manufacturing of box of matches or keeping more 
than 100 dozen stored
 13. Manufacturing of goods by coir or other types of 
fiber or keeping stored them
 14. Keeping used garments stored
 15. manufacturing or repairing of jewelry
 16. sawing of timber mechanically
 17. conducting machinery used factories
 18. Keeping empty sacks or empty bottles stored
 19. Conducting a workshop for repair bicycles and 
motorcycles
 20. Keeping used papers or newspapers stored
 21. Conducting a place for spray painting
 22. Manufacturing or storing of firework products or 
firecrackers
 23. Storing more than 50 liters of vegetable oil 
excluding Coconut oil
 24. storing frozen meat or fish
 25. Storing of timber
thiRD sCheDuLe
Stressful business :
 
 1. Powdering Cinnamon, cardamom and cloves using 
chemicals
 2. Dry cleaning or dyeing
 3. Fabric printing or dyeing
 4. Conducting an electrolytic metal plating place
 5. Limestone burning, Preparation or storing 
powdered limestone
 6. Conducting of electric battery charging place or 
repairing place
 7. Conducting a motor vehicle repairing center
 8. Conducting an automotive service station
 9. Conducting a Molding shed
 10. Conducting a tin work place
 11. Keeping gas cylinderes stored
 12. Manufacturing or composition of local and 
indigenous medicine
 13. Storing glassware or glass sheets
 14. Conducting a plastic or fiber allied equipment 
factory
 15. Keeping  tea  stored more than 150 kg

<!-- page 145 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1789
 16. Conducting a place for welding
 17. Conducting a work place using Lathe Machines
 18. Conducting a place storing of Petrol, diesel, oil or 
any other Petroleum
 19. manufacturing or storing of agricultural chemical 
substances.
 20. Air conditioners, refrigerators or freezers 
servicing or repairing
 21. Conducting an electric workshop or 
manufacturing or repairing of electrical 
equipments
 22. Conducting a milk chilling center
 23. Conducting a plastic and polythene recycling 
center
 if there is any discrepancy between sinhala and tamil 
versions of this announcement Sinhala version will be 
authoritative.
 K. A. 
cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and implimentary officer. 
At seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha office 
 of Powers and functions,
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
Hanwella.
On 12th October, 2017.
11-734/3
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
imposition tax on Vehicles and animals for the year 
2018
By virtue of the Powers vested in me under Section 148 and 
Section 147 read with Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987, I, K. A. Chandana Padmasiri, Secretary 
of the seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha who exercise, 
perform and discharge of powers, duties and functions of 
seethawaka Pradesshiya sabha, decided under the no. 
9295 on 12.10.2017 and announce hereby that terms of 
tax on vehicles and animals for the year 2018 for the Local 
Authority Area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha should be 
as follows.
 K. A. 
cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and officer in exercise perform
 and discharge of powers, duties and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At the head office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
On 12th October, 2017.
DECISION
By virtue of the powers vested in seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha, under Section 148 and Section 147 read with Section 
9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I decide to 
charge an Annual tax on Vehicles and Animals for year 
2018 for the Local Authority Area of seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabhas indicated in the below Schedule.
tHe above mentioned scHedule
 1st column IInd Column
  Tax
  Rs. Cents
For each and every vehicle excluding a motor 
vehicle, a motor car, a lorry, a motor cycle, 
a cart, a jin rickshaw, a bicycle or a tricycle 25 0
For each and every bicycle, tricycle, bicycle 
car or a cart :
 (a) if used of  commecial purposes 18 0
 (b) if used for non - commercial purposes 4 0
for each and every cart 20 0
for each an every push - cart 10 0
for each and every rickshaw 7 50
each and every horse /pony or a mule 15 0
for each and every elephant 50 0
Children's vehicles consisit of wheels which Diameter 
not exceeding 26 inches, wheelbarrows, push carts which 
used for  commercial purpose whereonly at private premises 
and push carts which area not used for commercial pupose 
are not subject to this payment.
transport or taking away of some written or printed 
materials some goods or items to sell or otherwise for a trade 
business or for an industry, is entitle to the 'Commercial 
Purpose' in this Schedule.
this notification is Published in sinhala, tamil and 
english Languages and in the event of any inconsistency 
among the text, Sinhala text shall Enforced.
11-734/7

<!-- page 146 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1790
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Fixing Charges for burning a dead body in a 
Crematorium
i, K. A. Chandana Padmasiri the secretary of the seethawaka 
Pradeshiya sabha enforcing powers of seetawaka Pradeshiya 
sabha and performing tasks in seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha by virtue of powers vested in me by Section No. 9.3 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 hereby announced 
that I have decided the directors in respect of Fixing charges 
for burning a death body in a crematorium should be as 
follows with effect from the date 12.10.2017 under the No. 
9266 for the Local Area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha 
for the year 2018.
DECISION
I decide that Fixing charges for burning a death body in 
a crematorium should be declared as following schedule to 
obtain a permit to burining a death body in a crematorium of 
the seethawaka Local Authority Area under the by laws on 
Fixing charges for burning a death body in a crematorium in 
terms of the approved by-laws which have been approved 
and accepted by the western provincial council as amended 
by the no. 1976/21 Extraordinary Gazette notification dated 
20 july 2016 by virtue of powers vested in the Minister of 
Local Government under section 2 of Act, no. 6 of 1952, in 
by -laws, prepared by him and approved in the Section iv (b) 
of the Extraordinary Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th December 
2015 and appreciated by the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha 
on 01.01.2017.
ABoVe  MentioneD  sCheDuLe
 First Column Second Column
 service fee
Providing a permit to  Within the local limits 
 burning a death body   Rs. 6,000
 in a crematorium Outside of the local limits 
in local area of seethawaka  Rs. 7,000
 Pradeshiya Sabha.
 if there is any discrepancy between sinhala and tamil 
versions of this announcement Sinhala version will be 
authoritative.
 K. A. 
cHandana Padmasiri,
 Secretary and implimenting 
 officer of powers and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha office, 
12th October, 2017.
11-734/11
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Fixing Charges for Conducting a Funeral Parlor 
providing Funeral services in the Local area for the 
y ear 2018
I, K. A.  Chandana Padmasiri the Secretary of the 
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha enforcing powers of 
seetawaka Pradeshiya sabha and performing tasks in 
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha by virtue of powers vested 
in me by Section No. 9.3 Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 
1987 hereby announced that I have decided the directors in 
respect of couducting a funeral parlor providing funeral 
services in the Local Area should be a follows with effect 
from the date 12.10.2017 under the No. 9272 for the local 
area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha for the year 2018.
DECISION
I decide that Fixing charges for conducting a funeral 
parlor providing funeral  services in the local area should be 
declared as the following schedule in respect of obtaining 
a permit to conducting a funeral parlor providing funeral 
services in the local area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha 
under the by-laws on Fixing charges for access playgrounds 
in the local area in terms of the approved by-laws which 
have been approved and accepted by the Western Provincial 
Council as amended by the no. 1976/21 Extraodinary 
Gazette notification dated 20 July 2016 by virtue of powers 
vested in the Minister of Local Government under section 
2 of Act, no. 6 of 1952, in by - laws, prepared by him and 
approved in the Section iv(b) of the Extraordinary Gazette 
no. 1947/6 of 28th December 2015 and appreciated by the 
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha on 01.01.2017.

<!-- page 147 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1791
ABoVe  MentioneD  sCheDuLe
 First column Second column
 service fee
providing a permit to conducting a funeral  Rs. 5000 + tax
parlor providing funeral services in 
the local area of seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha. 
 if there is any discrepancy between sinhala and tamil 
versions of this announcement Sinhala version will be 
authoritative.
 K. A. 
cHandana Padmasiri,
 Secretary and implimentary 
 officer of powers and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
12th October, 2017.
11-734/12
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
imposition taxes on Non - developed Lands for 
the year 2018
By  virtue of the powers vested in me under section 153 read 
with section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha act, No. 15 of 1987, 
i, K.A. Chandana Padmasiri, secretary of the seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha, who exercise, perform and discharge of 
powers, dusties and functions of seethawaka Pradeshiya 
sabha, decided under the no. 9263 on 12.10.2017 and 
announce hereby that terms of taxes on non - developed lands 
for the year 2018 for the local authority area of seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha should be as follows.
 K. A. 
cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and officer in exercise perform
 and discharge of powers, duties and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At the head office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
12th October, 2017.
DECISION
under the rules and regulations of section 153 read with 
Section 9.3 of  pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, For the 
non -developed lands in local  authority area of seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha , I decide, a tax of one percent of the capital 
land value of that land should be charged for year 2018 and, 
the ratio of entire land and the covered area by the buildings 
of same land should be 1:2 as "proportion" explained under 
the chapter (b) of Section 153(1) of pradeshiya Sabha Act, 
no. 15 of 1987, for the purpose of specified tax.
 this notification is published in sinhala, tamil and 
English languages and in the event of any inconsistency, 
among the text, Sinahala text shall Enforced.
11-734/14
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Notification under Section 02 of the Standared By-laws 
of Local authorities act, No. 06 of 1952
By  virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 9.3 of 
pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I decided under the 
no.9276 on 12.10.2017 and announce hereby that i have 
taken the following  decision in terms of the provisions 
under Section 02 of the standard by-laws of local authorities, 
Act, no.06 of 1952.
DECISION
I decide that the terms of the  provisions of Section 9.3 
of Pradeshiya sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 should be applied 
for the local authority area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha 
from 01.01.2018 by -law for public libraries of Pradeshiya 
sabhas published in Section iv (a) of Gazette No. 1381 dated 
February, 18 2005 of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka, having drafted by the Local  Government subject 
minister of western province under the Section 02 (standard 
by-laws) Local  Government Act, no. 06 of 1952 in terms of 
the powers to be accepted under the regulations in  Section 
02 of (standard by-laws) Local Authorities Act, no. 06 
of 1952 and throgh section 122 read with section 126 of 
pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
 this notification is published in sinhala, tamil and 
english Languages and in the event of any inconsistency 
among the text, Sinhala text shall Enforced.

<!-- page 148 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1792
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and officer in exercise perform
 and discharge of powers, duties and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At the head office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
12th October, 2017.
11-734/18
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Notification under Sub Section 1 of Section 20 of 
western Province waste management statute, No. 01     
of 2007
By  virtue of the powers vested in me under section 9.3 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I decided under 
the No. 9277 on 12.10.2017 and announce hereby that 
Fulfillment of "Municipal solid Waste Management Rules" 
According to the Sub section 01 of Section 20 of Western 
Province waste management statute, No. 01 should be as 
follows.
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Fixing Charges for mobile marketing in the Local area for year 2018
i, K. A. Chandana Padmasiri the secretary of the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha enforcing powers of seethawaka Pradeshiya 
sabha and performing tasks in seetawaka Pradeshiya sabha by virtue of powers vested in me by section no. 9.3 Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 hereby announced that I have decided the directions in respect of Fixing charges for mobile 
marketing in the local area should be as follows with effect from the date 2017.10.12 under the no. 9267 for the local area 
of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha for the year 2018.
DECISION
   i decide that fixing charges for mobile marketing in the local area should be declared as second column of following 
schedule to obtain a permit for mobile marketing in the seethawaka Local Authority Area under the by-laws on Fixing 
charges for mobile marketing in the local area in terms of the approved by-laws which have been approved and accepted 
by the Western Provicial Council as amended by the no. 1976/21 extraordinary Gazette notification dated 20 July 2016 by 
virtue of powers vested in the Minister of Local Government under section 2 of Act, no. 6 of 1952 in by - laws, prepared by 
him and approved in the Section iv (b) of the extraordinary Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th December 2015 and appreciated by 
the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha on 01.01.2017.
DECISION
i decide that under the regulations of section 9.3 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, "Municipal solid 
waste Management rules" should applicable for the Local 
Authority Area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha effect 
from 01.01.2018 which published in the Section iv (a) of 
extraordinary Gazette no.1560/6 dated July 30, 2008 of the 
Democratic socislist Republic of sri Lanka having drafted 
by the Western Province subject  Minister by virtue of the 
powers vested under Sub section 1 of Section 20 of Western 
Province waste management statue, No. 01 of 2007.
 this notification is published in sinhala, tamil and 
English  languages and in the event of any inconsistency 
among the text, Sinhala text shall Enforced.
 K. A. 
cHandana Padmasiri,
 Secretary  and officer in exercise perform
 and discharge of powers, duties and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At the head office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
12th October, 2017.
11-734/19

<!-- page 149 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1793
sCheDuLe  ABoVe  MentioneD 
 First Column Second Column Third Column
 Service fee Application fee
Providing a permit for mobile Rs. 2000/- + tax per year Rs. 100/- + tax
marketing in the seethawaka Rs. 500/- + tax per quarter
local authority area.
   if there is any discrepancy between sinhala and tamil versious of this announcement sinhala version will be 
authoritative.
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 Secretary and implementing 
 officer of powers and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
12th October, 2017.
11-734/8
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Fixing Charges for Parking Fee for three wheelers in the Local area for the year 2018
i, K. A. Chandana Padmasiri the secretary of the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha enforcing powers of seethawaka Pradeshiya 
sabha and performing tasks in seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha by virtue of powers vested in me by section no. 9.3, Pradeshiya 
sabha Act, no. 15 of 1987 hereby announced that i have decided the directors in respect of Fixing charges for parking fee 
for the three wheelers in the Local Area should be as follows with effect from the date 2017.10.12 under the no. 9269 for the 
local area of  seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha for the year 2018.
DECISION
   i decide that fixing charges for parking fee for three wheelers in the Local Area should be declared as three wheelers 
at identified places in the local area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha every day from 06.00 hrs to 20.00 hrs second of 
following schedules to obtain a permit for parking fee for three wheelers in the seethawaka Local area under the by -laws 
on Fixing charges for parking fee for three wheelers in the local area in terms of the approved by laws which have been 
approved and accepted by the western provincial council as amended by the no. 1976/21 extraodinary Gazette notification 
dated 20th July 2016 by virtue of powers vested in the Minister of Local Government under section 2 of Act, no. 6 of 1952, 
in by laws, prepared by him and approved in the Section iv (b) of the extraordinary Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th December 
2015 and appreciated by the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha on 01.01.2017.

<!-- page 150 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1794
tHe first scHedule mentioned in above
	 first	column	 second	column
 service fee
providing a permit to park a threeweeeler Annually
at identified place in the local area of  Rs. 1000/- +  taxes
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha every day from 06.00 hers to 20.00 hrs.
tHe second scHedule mentioned in above
	 Item		 Sub	office	area	 Identified	threewheeler	parking	 Number
 Number  place
 01 Padukka near the starting point at Meepe Dekaduvala Road 05
 02 Padukka near the starting point at Meepe Kammalpitiya estate 10
 03 Padukka the road in front of the Padukka rail track 12
 04 Padukka the road in front of the Padukka Post office 10
 05 Padukka near the starting point at Weragala Meditation Center Road 02
 06 Padukka near the starting point at Yatawathura road infront of the 
   Malagala School 05
 07 Padukka the starting point of the korla ima road nearby the Malagala 
   garment factory 03
 08 Padukka near the starting point at Amgampitiya uggalla road 02
 09 Padukka nearby the starting point at Angampitiya Fowzi mawatha 02
 10. Padukka nearby the Angampitiya halpe road boe tree 05
 11. Padukka nearby the cemetery in front of Pinnawela school 10
 12 hanwella new weekly market, road, hanwella (cemetery boundary) 10
 13 Hanwella Near the starting point at Mawathagama Piyasena Mawatha 03
 14. Kosgama Near the starting point at Suduwella Aluth hena road 02
 15. Kosgama Nearby the Anandagama playground  04
 16. Kahahena near the starting point at Kahahena Mawalgama road 02
 17 Kahahena Near th starting point at Kahahena Kadugoda road 02
 18 Kahahena Near the starting point at Pelpola Elamalawala road 02
 
   If there is any dicrepancy between Sinhala and English versions of this announcement Sinhala version will be 
authoritative.
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 Secretary and implementing 
 officer of powers and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
12th October, 2017.
11-734/9

<!-- page 151 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1795
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Fixing charges for exhibiting propaganda advertisement in the local area for the y ear 2018
i, K.A. Chandana Padmasiri, the secretary of the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha enforcing powers of seetawaka Pradeshiya 
sabha and  performing tasks in seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha by virtue of powers  vested in me by section no. 9.3 Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 hereby announced that I have decided the directions in respect of Fixing charges for exhibiting 
propaganda advertisements in the local areas should be as follows with effect from the date 2017.10.12, under the no. 9268 
for the local area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha for the Year 2018.
DECISION
   i decide that Fixing charges for exhibiting propaganda advertisements in the local area should be declared as first 
and second of following schedules  to obtain a permit for exhibiting propaganda advertisements in the seethawaka local 
authority area under the by laws on Fixing charges for exhibiting propaganda advertisements in the local area in terms of the 
approved by laws which have been approved and accepted by the Western Provincial Council as amended by the no.1976/21 
Extraordinary Gazette notification dated 20th July, 2016 by virtue of powers vsted in the Minister of Local Government 
under section 2 of Act no. 6 of 1952, in by - laws, prepared by him and approved in the section iV (b) of the Extraordinary 
Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th December 2015, and appreciated by the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha on 01.01.2017.
tHe first scHedule mentioned in above
  First column Second column
  Service Application fee
Providing a permit for exhibiting propaganda advertisements in the  Rs. 500/- +  tax
local area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha
tHe second scHedule mentioned in above
 Item No. Nature of the Board Number of  Fee rupees
   Squaremeter
    less than 3 03 months to a year
    months 06 months
01 Propaganda less than 1 Rs. 250 Rs. 350 Rs. 500 
 advertisements more than 1 Rs. 200 for every square meter or part thereof
 displayed
02 for digital banners  less than 3 Rs. 250 Rs. 350 Rs. 500
 and clothes more than 3 Rs. 200 for every square meter or part thereof
    exceeding 3
03 propaganda less than 1 Rs. 500 Rs. 750 Rs. 1,000
 advertisements more than 1 Rs. 300 for every square meter or part thereof   
 displayed   exceeding 1
 by metal plates or
 wooden boards
04 propaganda less than 1 Rs. 500 Rs. 750 Rs. 1,000 
 advertisements which more than 1 Rs. 300 for every square meter or part thereof
 using electricity   exceeding1

<!-- page 152 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1796
05 propaganda less than 1 Rs. 250 Rs. 350 Rs. 500
  advertisements more than 1 Rs. 200 for every square meter or part thereof
  displayed or polythene    exceeding 1
  of  cardboard
06 propaganda lesst than 1 Rs. 250 Rs. 350 Rs. 500
  advertisements  more than 1 Rs. 200 for every square meter or part thereof   
  displayed   exceeding 1
  on plastic boards or
  fibre boards
07 propaganda less than 1 Rs. 750 Rs. 850 Rs. 1,000 
  advertisements which more than 1 Rs. 500 for every square meter or part thereof
  using electric appliances   exceeding 1
   if there is any discrepancy between sinhala and tamil versions of this announcement sinhala version will be 
authoritative.
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 Secretary and implementary 
 officer of powers and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At the office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
Hanwella.
12th October, 2017.
11-734/10
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Fixing Fees for formalizing decorations for the year 2018
i, K. A. Chandana Padmasiri, the secretary of the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha enforcing powers of seethawaka 
Pradeshiya sabha and performing tasks in seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha by virtue of powers vested in me by section no. 
9.3, Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 hereby announced that I have  decided the directions in respect of Fixing fees for 
formalizing decorations should be  as follows with effect from the date 2017.10.12 under the no.9264 for the local area of 
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha for the Year 2018.
DECISION
I decide that Fixing fees for formalizing decorations should be declared as following schedule to obtain a permit 
to decorate streets and Public area of seethawaka local authority area under the by laws on Fixing fees for formalizing 
decorations in terms of the approved by laws which have been approved and  accepted by the Western Provincial Council 
as amended by the no. 1976/21 Extraordinary Gazette notification dated 20 july 2016 by virtue of powers vested in the 
Minister of Local Government under section 2 of Act no. 6 of 1952 in by-laws, prepared by him and approved in the section 
IV  (b) of the Extraordinary Gazette  no. 1947/6 of 28th December, 2015 and appreciated by the seethawaka Pradeshiya 
Sabha on 01.01.2017
 Item No. Nature of the board Number of     
   Squaremeter  Fee rupees
    less than 3 03 months to a year
    months 06 months

<!-- page 153 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1797
scHedule above mentioned
 First Column Second Column Third Column
 service fee deposit amount
providing a permit to decorate Rs. 10/- + tax per square Rs. 30/- +  tax per square
streets and public area of meter meter
seethawaka local Authority area
if there is any discrepancy between sinhala and tamil versions of this announcement sinhala version will be authoritative.
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 Secretary and implementary 
 officer of powers and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At the office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha.
12th October, 2017.
11-734/13
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Fixing charges for access playgrounds in the local area for the year 2018
i, K. A. Chandana Padmasiri the secretary of the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha enforcing powers of seetawaka Pradeshiya 
sabha and performing tasks in seetawaka Pradeshiya sabha by virtue of powers vested in me by section no. 9.3 Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 hereby announced that I have decided the directions in respect of access playgrounds in the 
local area should be as follows with effect from the date 12.10.2017 under the no. 9271 for the local area of seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha for the year 2018.
DECISION
   I decide that Fixing charges for access playgrounds in the local area should be declared as the following schedule 
in respect of obtaining a permit to access playgrounds in the local area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha under the by laws 
on Fixing charges for access playgrounds in the local area in terms of the approved by laws which have been approved and 
accepted by the Western Provincial Council as amended by the no. 1976/21 extraodinary Gazette notification dated 20th 
July 2016 by virtue of powers vested in the Minister of Local Government under section 2 of Act, no. 6 of 1952, in by laws, 
prepared by him and approved in the Section IV  (b) of the Extraordinary Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th December 2015 and 
appreciated by the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha on 01.01.2017.
above mentioned scHedule
 first	column	 Second	Column	 Third	Column	 Fourth	Column
 Service Application  fee fee Deposit
    amount
providing a permit to access a Rs. 500/- + tax Rs. 5,000/- + tax per day Rs. 20,000
playground in the local area of
seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha

<!-- page 154 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1798
   if there is any discrepancy between sinhala and tamil versions of this announcement sinhala version will be 
authoritative.
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and implementing officer
 of powers and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
12th October, 2017.
11-734/15
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Charges for services for the year 2018
By virtue of the powers vested in me under section 9.3 of Pradeshiya sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, K. A. Chandana 
Padmasiri, secretary, of the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, who exercise, perform and discharge of powers, duties and 
fuctions of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, decided under the no. 9270 on 12.10.2017 and announce hereby that terms of 
charges for services of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha for the year 2018 should be as follows.
 K. A. cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and officer in exercise perform
 and discharge of powers, duties and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At the head offfice of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
12th October, 2017.
DECISION
I decide that Fixing charges for services in the local area should be declared as the second and third schedules in 
respect of first column in the following schedule and in the local area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha under the by-laws 
on Fixing charges for services in the local area in terms of the approved by laws which have been approved and accepted 
by the Western Provincial Council as amended by the no. 1976/21 Extraordinary Gazette notification dated 20th July 2016 
by virtue of powers vested in the Minister of Local Government under section 2 of Act, no. 6 of 1952, in by -laws prepared 
by him and approved in the Section IV(b) of the Extraordinary Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th December 2015 and appreciated 
by the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha.
tHe above mentioned scHedule
 First Column Second Column Third Column
 Service Application fee Fee Rs.
 1. admission for the pre schools conducted by the Council Rs. 500    -
 2.  obtaining the membership of a library conducted by the concil Rs. 10 elder- Rs. 50 
  children -Rs. 30
 3.  Obtaining extracts from the assessment register Rs. 100 + tax Rs. 500 + tax
 4.  Registering a s supplier Rs. 1000 + tax Rs. 500 + tax
 5.  obtaining a street line certificate Rs. 100 + tax Rs. 500 + tax
 6.  obtaining a non - acquisition certificate Rs. 100 + tax Rs. 500 + tax
 7.  obtain a title certificate referring assessment register   - Rs.500 + tax
 8.  obtaining a certificate that certifirming assessments announcement 
  the issued   - Rs. 500 + tax

<!-- page 155 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1799
this notification is published in sinhala, tamil and english languages and in the event of any inconsistency among 
the text, Sinhala text shall Enforced.
11-734/16
seethawaka  Pradeshiya  sabha
Charging license fee under the Public theatre ordinance for the year 2018
By  virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 9.3 of pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, K. A. Chandana 
Padmasiri, secretary of the seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, who exercise, perform and  discharge of powers, duties and 
functions of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha, decided under the no. 9260 on 12.10.2017 and announce hereby that terms of 
License fee under the public theatre ordinance for the year 2018 for the local authority area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha 
should be as follows.
 K. A. 
cHandana Padmasiri,
 secretary and officer in exercise perform
 and discharge of powers, duties and functions,
 seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
 Hanwella.
At the head office of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha,
12th October, 2017.
DECISION
I decide, a licence fee should be charged for each and all aiding movies, movies, magic shows, circus shows, 
drama shows and musical shows which perform within the local authority area of seethawaka Pradeshiya sabha according 
to the 3rd clause of the Public theatre ordinance of 176th Chapter, for year 2018 for the Local authority area of seethawaka 
Pradeshiya Sabha as indicated in the below schedule.
tHe above mentioned scHedule
 Number of seats Per day  per week per month  per year
   Or less than  or part ending on
   7 days of a month  31st December
  Rs. Cents. Rs. Cents Rs. Cents Rs. Cents
Less than 199 seats 25 0 45 0 75 0 400 0
Less than 399 seats 35 0 65 0 100 0 500  0
Less than 499 seats 50 0 100 0 250 0 750 0
More than 499 seats 75 0 150 0 300 0 1,000 0
Non- Business performing show 10 0 25 0 100 0
for aid described in the Ordinance
   this notification is published in sinhala, tamil and english languages and in  the event of any inconsistency among 
the text, Sinhala text shall Enforced.
11-734/17

<!-- page 156 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1800
pradeshiya  sabha  rideegama   
imposing Tax on animals and Vehicles - 2018
By virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Section 
9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe, the Secretary 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama who execute powers 
and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, 
do hereby determine that imposing of Tax on Vehicles and 
Animals for the year 2018 in respect of the area of authority 
of Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama should be as follows under 
the Resolution No. 1910 (01) dated 04.10.2017.
 J. A. AJith KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017. 
 By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Section 148 to be read with Section 147 of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I hereby determine that an 
Annual Tax for the year 2018 should be imposed and levied 
from every person who keeps in his possession any vehicle 
or animal referred to in column I in the following Schedule 
within the limits of Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama in the 
Year 2018, as specified in the corresponding Column II. 
SChedule 
 Column I Column II
  Rs. cts. 
01. (i) For every vehicle other than motor cycle  25  0
  motor tricycle, motor lorry, cart, rickshaw,
  bicycles, tricycle
 (ii) For every bicycles or a tricycle, bicycle a 
  car -
  (a) If used for business purpose 18  0
  (b) If used for non business purpose 4  0
 (iii) For every Cart 20  0
 (iv) For every  hand Cart 10  0
 (v) For every Rickshaw 7 50
 (vi) For every horse, Pony or Mule 15  0
 (vii) For every Tusker 50  0
02. Children’s vehicles with wheels not exceeding the 
diameter of 26 inches and hand tractors utilized for 
business purposes only at private places and hand 
tractors those not utilized for non business purposes are 
exempted from the above taxes. 
11–674/1
pradeshiya   sabha  rideegama  
imposing acreage Tax for the y ear - 2018
By virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions 
of Section 134 of  Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 
to be read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith 
Kumarasinghe the secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama who execute powers and discharge duties of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, do hereby determine that 
imposing of Acreage Tax for the year 2018 in respect of the 
area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama should 
be as follows under the resolution No. 1910 (02) dated 
04.10.2017. 
It is further notified that the acreage tax imposed for the 
year 2018 should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama 
in four equal instalments within every quarter ended on 31st 
december, 30th September, 30th June and 31st March. If 
the Acreage Tax for the year 2018 is paid in full before 
31st January in 2018 to the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama 
a discount of ten (10%) will be paid and if the Acreage tax 
for each quarter is paid before the end of the first month of 
respective quarter, a discount of five (5%) will be paid. 
 J. A. AJith KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017. 
ReSolutIon
 By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha 
under Sub-section (1) of Section 146 of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 15 of 1987, I, in the capacity of the secretary to the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama hereby determine to adopt the 
verification enforced in the year 2017 for the year 2018 ; and 
 (a) In respect of lands under permanent or regular 
cultivation situated within the area of Authority 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, by virtue of 
powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub 
section (3) of Section 134 of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, no. 15 of 1987 ; and
 (b) To impose and levy an Acreage tax of Rs. 50.00 
for the year 2018 in respect of a land less than 
05 hectares but not less than 01 hectare situated 
within the area declared as a special area 
appropriate for imposing and levying Acreage 
tax as published in Part IV(a) of Gazette paper of 

<!-- page 157 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1801
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka dated 
03.02.1989 in terms of provisions morefully 
described in Sub-section (3) of 134 of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, no. 15 of 1987 ; and
 (c) To impose and levy an annual Acreage tax of          
Rs. 10.00 for the year per every land of 05 or 
more than 05 hectares under permanent or regular 
cultivation situated within the area of authority 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, by virtue of 
powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub 
Section  (3) of Section 134 of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, no. 15 of 1987 ; and
 (d) To order the tax payers to pay the said Acreage 
tax in four equal instalments before 31st March, 
30th June, 30th September and 31st december 
of the respective year in terms of the provisions 
of Sub-section (6) of Section 134 of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
11–674/2
––––––––––––––––––––
pradeshiya   sabha   rideegama   
imposing assessment Tax for the year - 2018
By virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions 
of Section 134 (1) of  Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 
1987 to be read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. 
Ajith Kumarasinghe the secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama who execute powers and discharge duties of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, do hereby determine that 
imposing of Assessment Tax for the year 2018 in respect of 
the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama should 
be as follows under the resolution No. 1910 (03) dated 
04.10.2017.
 J. A. AJith KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama under Sub section (1) of Section 146 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Section 
9.3 of the said Act, I, in the capacity of the secretary to the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama do hereby determine that the 
assessment of annual value for the year 2015 in respect of all 
houses, buildings, lands and tenements situated within the 
developed areas in the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama to be adopted for the year 2018 ; and 
By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama under Sub section (1) of Section 134 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, based on the 
aforesaid assessment, to impose and levy for the year 2018, 
an assessment tax of
1. Four percent (4%) in respect of every immovable 
property situated within the area of authority of sub 
office of dodamgaslanda ; and 
2. Five percent (5%) in respect of every immovable 
property situated within the area of authority of head 
office of Rideegama ; and
In terms of the provisions of sub section (6) of section 134 
of the said Pradeshiya Sabha Act, to order the payers to pay 
the said assessment tax to the Pradeshiya saba Rideegama 
on four equal instalments within the four quarters ended on 
31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st december 
in the respective year. 
Further the assessment tax for the year 2018 specified 
in the following schedule should be paid before the date 
indicated against each quarter in the said schedule to the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama and if the annual tax is paid 
in full before 31st of January of 2018 a Ten percent (10%) 
discount and in case the assessment tax for a quarter is paid 
before the date indicated in the column III a five percent 
(5%) discount will be paid. 
AforesAid schedule
 Quarter Due date of  Final date 
  payment entitled for a 
   discount of 5%
First Quarter 31st March 2018 31st January  
    2018
Second Quarter 30th June 2018 30th April 2018
Third Quarter 30th September 2018 31st July 2018
Fourth Quarter 31st december 2018 31st october  
    2018
11–674/3

<!-- page 158 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1802
   pradeshiya   sabha  rideegama
imposing Charges for the y ear 2018 in respect of issuing license under the by-Laws of maintaining a Certain industry
By virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of section 147 and 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to 
be read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama who 
execute powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama do hereby determine that imposing license fees for 
the year 2018 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama should be as follows under the resolution  
No. 1910(04) dated 04.10.2017.
 J. A. AJith KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
By virtue of powers vested in me under Section 149 to be read with Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 
of 1987, I hereby determine to impose and levy a license fee for the year 2018 in respect of each industry referred to in the 
column I as per the rates specified in the corresponding column II of the schedules no. I, II, III and IV described in under 
the said Act or a by-law made under the said action respect of the issue of license by Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama for the 
year 2018 authorizing any place or a premises to be utilized within area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama ; and 
In case  the industry referred to in the schedule is a hotel, a restaurant or a lodge registered with or approved and 
accepted by the tourist Board in Sri lanka under tourist Board Act, no. 14 of 1968, to impose and levy for the year 2018, 
a license fee one percent (1%) of receiving in the year 2017 from the said hotel, restaurant or lodge. 
schedule  i - hAzArdous  Businesses
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value of the place 
     
 Serial  Nature of the Industry   In the case of In the case of  In the case of 
  No.  not exceeding  exceeding Rs. 750   exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding   Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Purifying or storing mica 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 02. Manufacturing or storing for selling of chemical manure or manure 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 03. Running a place for manufacturing Maldive fish 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 04. Manufacturing or storing rubber 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 05. Running a veterinary hospital  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 06. Storing of perishable food for whole sale  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 07. Storing dried fish, salted fish or jadi more than 105kg 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 08. Freezing, drying or making jadi by fish or meat  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 09. Making wood coal  or coconut shell coal   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 10. drying tobacco   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 11. Manufacturing animal food   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 12. Manufacturing Punnak  500  0 750  0 1,000  0

<!-- page 159 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1803
 13. Fermentation animal blood or meat  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 14. Manufacturing of soap  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 15. Grinding or storing of animals bones   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 16. Making trunk boxes  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 17. Storing new or old metal   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 18. Storing debris of metal   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 19. Manufacturing of cane products  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 20. Manufacturing of syrups or fruit juice  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 21. Manufacturing sweets  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 22. Soaking of coconut husk   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 23. Manufacturing brushes (other than tooth brushes) 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 24. Manufacturing of tooth brushes   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 25. Collecting toddy  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 26. Manufacturing vinegar  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 27. Sawing timber  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 28. Manufacturing of paints or distemper  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 29. Manufacturing soda  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 30. Fiber painting   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 31. t inning fruits, fish or other food 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 32. Grinding coffee and grain   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 33. Manufacturing of baking powder  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 34. Manufacturing of gas mantle   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 35. Manufacturing potty  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 36. Manufacturing of candles   500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 37. Manufacturing of camphor 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 38. Manufacturing  of writing ink, pressing ink, stencil ink 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 39. Manufacturing of washing blue  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 40. Manufacturing sealing - wax 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 41. Manufacturing of perfumes  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 42. Manufacturing of chalk  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 43. Curing leather or storing leather for selling  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 44. Manufacturing furniture  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 45. Running a carpentry factory 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 46. Manufacturing of tires or tubs 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 47. Retreading tires 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 48. Vulcanizing of tire tubes 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 49. Manufacturing of cement 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 50. Manufacturing of cement products or asbestos 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 51. Manufacturing of sand papers  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 52. Manufacturing of plastic products  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 53. Kilning bricks 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 54. Mechanized weaving of textiles  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 55. Manufacturing or refilling acids 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value of the place 
     
 Serial  Nature of the Industry   In the case of In the case of  In the case of 
  No.  not exceeding  exceeding Rs. 750   exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding   Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 160 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1804
 56. Manufacturing of roofing tiles 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 57. Cleaning and selling gunny bags used for packing manure,
  lime powder or othr stuff 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 58. Mechanized manufacture of cement blocks 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 59. Animal husbandry (Meat, Milk, eggs) 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
schedule  ii - d Angerous  Businesses 
 
 01. Manufacturing vegetable oil 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 02. Manufacturing coconut oil 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 03. Manufacturing and storing matches boxes  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 04. Manufacturing methilated spirits 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 05. Manufacturing  tea boxes 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 06. Manufacturing  coir or other fiber  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 07. Manufacturing  coir or other fiber products 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 08. Storing straw 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 09. Storing used garments 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 10. Mechanized sawing of timber  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 11. Mining quartz or lime stones 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 12. Running a smithy using machineries  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 13. Storing empty gunny bags or empty bottles  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 14. Repairing bicycles or motor cycles  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 15. Storing used news papers or papers  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 16. Spray painting  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 17. Storing fireworks or crackers  500  0 750  0   1,000  0
 18. Manufacturing Metallic tools (machineries and tools) 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 19. Manufacturing or repair of jewelry 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 20. Blasting and selling Mattel 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 
S chedule iii - h AzArdous  And  dAngerous  Businesses 
 01. Purifying mica 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 02. Processing cardamom, clove or fiber by using chemicals 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 03. dry cleaning or dying  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 04. Fabric printing or dying Bathik 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 05. electroplating  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 06. Manufacturing oil or animal oil 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 07. Kilning lime or coral  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 08. Manufacturing fireworks or crackers  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 09. Processing cod liver oil 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 10. Building boats  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value of the place 
     
 Serial  Nature of the Industry   In the case of In the case of  In the case of 
  No.  not exceeding  exceeding Rs. 750   exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding   Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 161 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1805
 11. Re charging  or repair of batteries  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 12. Welding metals 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 13. Repairing motor vehicles  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 14. Servicing motor vehicles  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 15. Mechanized crushing of metal  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 16. Running a casting shed  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 17. Running a tin work shop 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 18. Building bodies for lorries  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 19. Manufacturing or refilling of insecticide, fungicide, weedicide or  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
  pesticide
 20. Manufacturing disinfectors  500  0 750  0 1,000  0
 21. Manufacturing mosquito coils 500  0 750  0 1,000  0
11-674/4
rideegama   pradeshiya   sabha  
imposing industrial Tax for the y ear – 2018
By virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of Section 150(1) of  Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read 
with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe the secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama who execute 
powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, do hereby determine that imposing of Industrial Tax for 
the year 2018 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama should be as follows under the resolution           
No. 1910 (05) dated 04.10.2017.
 J. A. AJith KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
In terms of powers vested in me under Sub section (1) of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be 
read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I do hereby determine to impose and levy for the year 2018, an industrial tax on each 
industry carried out within the administrative limits of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama referred to in column I in the following 
schedule as per the rates specified in the corresponding column II. every person subject to the said tax should pay to the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama before 31st March of 2018. 
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value of the place 
     
 Serial  Nature of the Industry   In the case of In the case of  In the case of 
  No.  not exceeding  exceeding Rs. 750   exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding   Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. or

<!-- page 162 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1806
schedule 
  Column I  Column II
    Annual value of the place
  Serial Nature of the Industry   In case not In case exceeding In case 
  Number  exceeding  Rs. 750 but not  exceeding 
   Rs. 750 exceeding   Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Running a place for dress making (garments) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Running a place for manufacturing and repairing shoes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Running a place for manufacturing incense sticks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Running a place for sewing bags 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Running a place for manufacturing electric equipment 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Running a place for collecting Beedi 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Running a place for manufacturing exercise books 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Running a place for manufacturing roofing tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Running a place for manufacturing clay pots 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Running a place for manufacturing candles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Running a place for carving wood 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–674/5
rideegama   pradeshiya   sabha 
imposing business Tax for the year - 2018
By virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of Section 152(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 to be read 
with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe the secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama who execute 
powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, do hereby determine that imposing of Business Tax for 
the year 2018 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama should be as follows under the Resolution 
No. 1910 (06) dated 04.10.2017.
 J. A. A Jith  KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
At the office of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017.
 
ReSolutIon
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama under Sub section (1) of Section 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I do hereby determine that a Business Tax be imposed for 
the year 2018 from each person who maintains, within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama in 2018, any 
business for which a license should not be obtained under provisions of any by law made thereunder or any tax which is not 
required to be paid under Section 150 of the said Act, in case the receipts in the year 2017 from the said business fall within 
the limits of any object number indicated in the Column I, as per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II of the 
following Schedule. every person subject to the said tax should pay it to the Pradeshiya sabha before 31st March, 2018. 

<!-- page 163 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1807
schedule
   Column I Column II
  Annual Income of the Business Tax to be paid
     Rs. cts. 
1. From Rs. 100 to Rs. 6,000 No
2. From Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 12,000 90 0
3. From Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 18,750 180 0
4. From Rs. 18,750 to Rs. 75,000 360 0
5. From Rs. 75,000 to Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
6. When exceeding Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
11–674/6
rideegama   pradeshiya   sabha 
imposing Charges for the year 2018 in respect of           
by-law on advertisements and Visual environment 
By  virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with 
Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe, 
the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama who 
execute powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha, Rideegama, do hereby determine that Imposing of 
charges in respect of advertisements and visual environment 
for the year 2018 within the area of authority of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Rideegama should be as follows under the Resolution                                         
No. 1910 (07) dated 04.10.2017.
 J. A. A Jith  KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
At the office of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017. 
ReSolutIon
By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Sections 122 and 126 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 24 of 
1987 to be read with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I in the 
capacity of Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama 
do hereby notify that the charges mentioned in the following 
schedule should be levied with effect from 01.01.2018 in 
terms of the standard by law published in the Extraordinary 
Gazette of loal Government no. 520/7 on 23.08.1988 and 
adopted and enforced by the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama 
and it has been published in Part IV(a) of Gazette of local 
Government No. 995 dated 26.09.19 97.
schedule 
 Rs. cts. 
 01. For a permanent advertisement displayed on a 
  wall or board or per sq. ft.
   Six month  50  0
   Annually 60  0
 02. For any advertisement displayed on a banner 
  per sq. ft.
   Six month 30  0
   Annually 35  0
 03. For advertisement boards (grand scale) per sq. ft.
   Six month 50  0
   Annually 100  0
 04. For advertisements illuminated with electricity  
  per sq. ft.
   Annually 150  0
 
11–674/7
rideegama   pradeshiya   sabha 
Levying annual License Fee in respect of parking 
Vehicles for the year 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Section 
9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe the Secretary 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama who execute powers 
and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, 
do hereby determine that imposing of charges in respect of 
parking vehicles for the year 2018 within the area of authority 
of Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama should be as follows under 
the resolution No. 1910 (08) dated 04.10.2017. 
 J. A. A Jith  KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
By law on parking vehicles made by the hon. Minister-
in- Charge of the subject of local Government by virtue of 
powers vested in the Minister, has been published in Part 
IV(A) of the Gazette paper No. 1663 dated 16.07.2010 of 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka by Pradeshiya 
Sabha Ridgeegama and it has been published in Part IV(A) 
of Extraordinary Gazette No. 1703/18 dated 28.04.2011 to 
the effect that the said by law has been passed at the North 

<!-- page 164 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1808
Western Provincial Council meeting on 18.01.2011 and 
subsequently the said by law has been passed at the general 
meeting held on 28.07.2011 that the said by law should be 
implemented within the area of authority of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Rideegama and it has been published in Part IV(A) 
of Gazette No. 1733 dated 18.11.2011 to the effect that the 
said By-law has been adopted by the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama, I as the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, 
Rideegama do hereby determine that the charges set out in 
the following schedule should be imposed and levied for the 
year 2018 in terms of the said by law. 
the  schedule 
PArKing vehicles within the AreA of Authority of 
PrAdeshiyA sABhA
01. Annual License Fee: Rs. cts. 
  For a three wheeler 600 0
  For a van 750 0
  For a lorry/bus 1,000 0
02. For vehicles outside the area of authority of   
  Pradeshiya Sabha :  
  For a three wheeler 30 0
  For a car/van 50 0
  For a lorry/bus 50 0
  Motor bicycles 20 0
  Other vehicle 100 0
11–674/8
 
pradeshiya   sabha  rideegama
imposing entertainment Tax in terms of entertainment 
Tax Ordinance for the year - 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with 
Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe the 
secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama who execute 
powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama, do hereby determine that imposing of charges in 
respect of entertainment tax for the year 2018 within the area 
of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama should be as 
follows under the resolution No. 1910 (09) dated 04.10.2017.
 J. A. AJith KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017. 
ReSolutIon
notification made under Section 2(2) of entertainment 
Tax Ordinance No. 12 of 1946. By virtue of powers vested 
in the Pradeshiya Sabha under sub section 1 of section 2, 
I, in the capacity of the secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama hereby notify that a tax of 20% other than 
entertainment tax should be imposed and levied for the 2018 
upon the charges paid for entering into any entertainment 
activity which has been described in the said ordinance 
within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, 
as per the adoption of resolution made under No. 4(2) on 
30.08.2011. 
1. Charges for a license on Public Performance  - Rs. 500.
11–674/9
–––––––––––––––––
pradeshiya   sabha  rideegama 
imposing charges in respect of decorating thoroughfares 
for the year - 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Section 
9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe the secretary 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama who execute powers 
and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, 
do hereby determine that imposing of charges in respect of 
decorating through fares for the year 2018  within the area 
of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama should be as 
follows under the resolution No. 1910 (10) dated 04.10.2017.
 J. A. AJith KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017. 
ReSolutIon
In terms of by law on decorating thoroughfares made 
by the hon. Minister of local Government in the north 
Western Province and published in part IV(b) of Gazette 
paper of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka no. 
1663 and dated 16.07.2010 and published in part IV(b) 
of extraordinary Gazette paper of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka no. 1703/18 dated 08.04.2011 to the 
effect that the said by law was passed by the North Western 
Provincial Council and published in part iv(b) of the Gazette 

<!-- page 165 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1809
Paper No. 1773 dated 18.11.2011 to the effect that the said by 
law has been adopted by the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, 
I in the capacity of the secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama do hereby notify that the charges set out in the 
following schedule in respect of decorating thoroughfares 
within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama 
should be levied for the year 2018. 
schedule
For decorating thoroughfares : 
Polythene  Rs. cts. 
  For 1 k.m. per day 1,300 0
  For 1 k.m. per 2 days 2,050 0
  For 1 k.m. per 3 days 2,550 0
Rs. 500 will be levied for every exceeding day. Rs. 500 
will be levied for 1 k.m. per day in respect of decorating 
with other materials. Charges of 75% out of the full payment 
should be deposited before decorating thoroughfares and the 
said fee will be refunded after removing the said decorations. 
11–674/10
rideegama   pradeshiya   sabha 
Levying services Charges for the year 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Section 
9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe, the Secretary 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama who execute powers 
and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama, 
do hereby determine that imposing of service charges for 
the year 2018 within the area of authority of Pradeshiya 
Sabha, Rideegama should be as follows under the resolution                    
No. 1910 (11) dated 04.10.2017.
 J. A. A Jith  KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
At the office of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I, in the capacity of the secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama hereby propose to levy following charges in 
terms of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987:-
schedule
   Rs. cts.
 1. For building application 350  0
 2. Inspection charges of building applications 300  0
 3. Charges for approving building applications
 Sq.  Resided Commercial Resided Commercial
 meters in  or in or
  village other Urban other 
  area purpose area purpose
   in  in
   village  Urban
   area  area
  Rs. Cents Rs. Cents Rs. Cents Rs. Cents
 less 
 than 45 360 0 500 0 600 0 800 0
 46-90 610 0 750 0 850 0 1,050 0
 91-180 860 0 1,000 0 1,100 0 1,300 0
 181-270 1,110 0 1,250 0 1,350 0 1,550 0
 271-450 1,360 0 1,500 0 1,600 0 1,800 0
 451-675 1,610 0 1,750 0 1,850 0 2,050 0
 676-900 1,860 0 2,000 0 2,100 0 2,300 0
 901-1225 2,110 0 2,250 0 2,350 0 2,550 0
exceeding
1225  2,500 0 2,600 0 2,800 0 3,000 0
 4. Inspection fee for filling paddy field and lands 500  0
 5. Charges for approval of plans 600  0
 6. Charges for construction made without   
  obtaining the approval  :
  In case finished up to the level of foundation
   - per sq. ft. 
   Village area 8 0
   urban area 10 0
  In case finished up to the roof level - per sq. ft.
   Village area 10 0
   urban area 12 0
 
  Tunneling to lay water pipe
   For tar roads - per 01 sq. ft. 150 0
   For concreted roads - per 01 sq. ft. 95 0
   digging road shoulders of a gravel road -
   per 01 sq. ft. 35 0
 7. charges for inspection of place of unsafe trees 150 0
 8. on a certificate issued by the divisional 
  Secretary :
   (i) Business -
    Fees levied for one load of 10 
    wheeled lorry 1,500  0

<!-- page 166 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1810
    Fees levied for one load of 06 wheel
     350 big lorry   1,200  0
    Fees levied for one load of 06 wheel
     250 big lorry 700 0
    Charges for loading (dipo) 300 0
   (ii) Individual 350  0
 9.  (i) library membership application fee 5  0
   (ii) library membership fee 50  0
   (iii) Charges for renewal of library membership 25  0
   (iv) Charges for delay in returning books –
      For 01 book for a period from 01-30 days -  1  0
        per day
      For 01 book for a period from 31-90 days -  40  0
        per day
      For 01 book for a period from 91-180 days -   80  0
        per day
   For 01 book for more than 180 days - per day 100  0
 10. Charges for registration of tube wells 250  0
 11. Bicycles (charges for bicycle stickers) 21  0
 12. levying charges for certificates of street lines
   (i) Charges for the issue of certificate 600  0
   (ii) deposit 100  0
 13. levying charges from weekly fair of Rideegama
  (on the days the weekly fair is held)
  I. Internal sales units in the weekly fair
   * A sales unit in the building 200  0
   * A sales unit outside the building 180  0
   * A unit at the meat and fish area 120  0
  II. A sales unit at the either side of the 
    weekly fair 150 0
  III. A mobile sale unit within the weekly fair 50 0
 14. levying charges from weekly fair 
  dodamgaslanda  Unit Fees
      (on the days 
      weekly 
      air held)
 Selling bites and selling food by three wheelers Rs. 120 0
Itinerant sellers Rs. 100 0
Selling ice cream by three wheelers Rs. 130 0
Temporary sales outlets Rs. 150 0
Permanent sales outlets (small) Rs. 190 0
Permanent sales outlets (vegetable, textiles) Rs. 200 0
Fish stalls and selling chiken/fish Rs. 300 0
Retail shops (small)  Rs. 250 0
Retail shops (large) Rs. 480 0
Selling pork Rs. 340 0
Selling fruits Rs. 380 0
Selling dried fish (small)  Rs. 280 0
Selling dried fish (large) Rs. 400 0
Selling textiles and plastic (small) Rs. 490 0
Selling textiles and pl astic (large) Rs. 570 0
 15. Obtaining environment licenses
 I. Application fee for obtaining 
  environment protection license 150 0
 II. Charges for renewal of environment
  protection license 25 0
 III. environment license fee 1,250 0
 16. levying charges for crematorium 
   (To cremate one body)
 I. Within the area of authority 7,500 0
 II. Outside the area of authority 8,500 0
 11–674/11
pradeshiya   sabha  rideegama
Letting assets for the year 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions 
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with 
Section 9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe, the 
Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama who execute 
powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha, 
Rideegama, do hereby determine that imposing of charges 
in respect of letting assets owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha 
for the year 2018 should be as follows under the resolution 
No. 1910 (12) dated 04.10.2017.
 J. A. AJith KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017. 
I, in the capacity of secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Rideegama hereby notify that charges set out in the following 
schedule should be levied in respect of letting assets of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha for the year 2018 in terms of section 
159(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read 
with Section 9.3 of the said Act. 
schedule
 Rs. cts. 
 01. letting grounds for musical shows (per day) 
  dodamgaslanda sports ground 15,000 0
  hewawissa Sports Ground 10,000 0
  Other sports grounds owned by the 
   Pradeshiya Sabha 5,000 0
 02. letting sports grounds for circus shows
  (per day) 1,500 0
Rs. cts.

<!-- page 167 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1811
 3. letting grounds for sports activities (per day)  1,000 0
 4. letting grounds for other purpose (per day) 1,000 0
 5. In case grounds are rented for the purposes 
  specified in Columns 2 - 4 the extra fee 
  levied in addition to the fee for 
  exceeding 7 days 100 0
 6. letting the water bowser with tractor 
   (per day)
  Within the area of authority 2,500 0
  Outside the area of authority 3,000 0
 7. letting old conference hall of the 
  Pradeshiya Sabha (per day) 1,000 0
 8. letting V . I. P. huts
  Within the area of authority 1,500 0
  Outside the area of authority 2,000 0
 9. letting chairs 
  Within the area of authority 4 0
  Outside the area of authority 5 0
 10. letting multimedia (with technical assistance)
  - per day 3,000 0
 11. letting Backhoe machine with fuel (90 hp) - 
  per day 3,047 0
 12. letting motor grader 4,700 0
 13. letting tractor with bowser without transport
  - per one trip 2,800 0
  The fee levied for hiring bowser according
  to the distance to the particular place from
  the Pradeshiya Sabha.
 Distance Km Rent
 1 460 0
 2 506 0
 3 552 0
 4 598 0
 5 644 0
 6 690 0
 7 736 0
 8 782 0
 9 828 0
 10 874 0
 11 920 0
 12 966 0
 13 1,012 0
 14 1,058 0
 15 1,104 0
 16 1,150 0
11–674/12
pradeshiya   sabha,  rideegama   
imposing Tax on Undeveloped Lands for the 
year 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in me under the provisions of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Section 
9.3 of the said Act, I, J. A. Ajith Kumarasinghe, the Secretary 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama who execute powers 
and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama, 
do hereby determine that imposing of Tax on undeveloped 
lands  for the year 2018 in within the area of authority of 
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama should be as follows under 
the resolution No. 1910 (13) dated 04.10.2017.
 J. A. AJith KumArAsinghe, 
 Secretary,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama,
04th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
sub section (1) of section 153 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,                                                                                                
No. 15 of 1987, in any land situated within the area of 
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Rideegama which is suitable 
for constructing buildings or suitable for permanent or 
regular cultivation, 
(a)  If any building has not been constructed ; or
(b)  If the said land is not used for permanent or regular 
cultivation ; or 
(c)  If the land area actually used for constructing the 
buildings is less than the ratio of 1:4 out of full area 
of the land of the said land.
I, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rideegama 
do hereby propose that such land should be considered as 
an undeveloped land and to impose an Annual T ax of 0.5 
(0.5%) out of the capital value of each land which have been 
deemed as an undeveloped land and to order the tax payers 
to pay the tax on undeveloped lands to the Pradeshiya Sabha, 
Rideegama before 30th April, 2018.
11–674/13
 Rs. cts. 

<!-- page 168 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1812
pradeshiya   sabha   –  NarammaLa
imposing acreage Tax for the y ear 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Provisions of Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 
of 1987 to be read with Section 134(3) of the said Act, I, 
B. A. Meththananda, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Narammala, who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala do hereby determine under 
resolution No. 3902 that imposing of Acreage tax for the 
year 2018 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Narammala should be as follows. 
 B. A. 
meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of  
 executing powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Narammala,
08th September, 2017.
SChedule
 Rs. cts. 
 01. In case the land area is less than 05
  hectares but not less than 01 hectare  50 0
 02. In case the land area is 5 hectares 
  or more than 05 hectares 10 0
11-695/1
pradeshiya   sabha   - NarammaLa
imposing assessment Tax for the y ear - 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be 
read with Section 134(1) of said Act, I, B. A. Meththananda, 
the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala, who 
execute powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Narammala do hereby determine under resolution 
Number 3902, that imposing of assessment tax for the year 
2018 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Narammala should be as follows.   
By virtue of the powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Narammala under Sub-section (1) of Section 146 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, I do hereby determine 
that the assessment of the year 2015 in respect of all houses, 
buildings, lands and tenements situated within the areas 
declared as developed areas published in Gazette paper No. 
1659 dated 18.06.2010 of democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri lanka should be adopted as the assessment for the year 
2017, and by virtue of powers vested in me under Section 
134(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read 
with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I do hereby determine that 
an assessment tax of four percent (04%) in respect of the 
said property based on the aforesaid annual value should be 
imposed for the year 2018 ; and 
the assessment tax for the year 2018 specified in the 
follwoing Schedule should be paid before the date indicated 
against each quarter in the said Schedule to the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Narammala and if the annual tax is paid in full before 
31st of January of 2018 a discount of ten percent (10%) 
discount and in case the assessment tax for a quarter is paid 
before the date indicated in the third column a discount of 
five percent (5%) will be paid. 
 B. A. 
meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of  
 executing powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Narammala,
08th September, 2017.
SChedule
 Quarter Due date of  Final date entitled 
  payment for a discount of 5%
First Quarter Before 31.03.2018 31.01.2018
Second Quarter Before 30.06.2018 30.04.2018
Third Quarter Before 30.09.2018 31.07.2018
Fourth Quarter Before 31.12.2018 31.10.2018
11-695/2
pradeshiya   sabha  – NarammaLa
imposing Tax on Vehicles and animals for the y ear - 
2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Narammala under provisions of Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Section 148 and 
fourth Schedule, I, B. A. Meththananda, the Secretary to 
the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala, who execute powers and 

<!-- page 169 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1813
discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala do 
hereby determine under resolution No. 3902 that imposing 
of tax on Vehicles and Animals for the year 2018 within the 
area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala should 
be as follows.  
By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Section 148 to be read with Section 147 of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act,  No. 15 of 1987 and fourth Schedule, I hereby 
determine that every person who keeps in his possession any 
vehicle or animal referred to in Column I in the following 
Schedule in the year 2018, should pay a tax for the year 2018 
as specified in the corresponding Column II.
 B. A. 
meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of  
 executing powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Narammala,
08th September, 2017.
SChedule
 Column I Column  
  II
  Rs. cts.
01.  For every vehicle other than a Motor Vehicle     25 0
  Motor Car, Motor lorry, Motor Bicycle, 
  Cart, Jin Rickshaw, Bicycles or tricycle
 
02.  For every bicycles or a tricycle, a car or a cart :
 (a) If used for business purpose  18 0
 (b) For bicycles not used for business purpose  4 0
  (i) Vehicle tax Rs. 4.00  
  (ii) Service charge Rs. 6.00  
 
03.  For every cart  20 0
04.  For every hand cart  10 0
05.  For every Rickshaw  7 0
06.  For every horse, Pony or Mule  15 0
07.  For every tusker   50 0
In addition to these charges, taxes imposed by the 
Government from time to tim e will be levied. 
11-695/3
pradeshiya  sabha  - NarammaLa 
proposal of imposing Tax in respect of Weekly Fair for the year - 2018
1 do hereby determine to let weekly fair premises on the days other than Saturday, Sunday and Monday.
 Serial     Charges Electricity and  Surety
  No.  per day water  deposits
   Rs.   cents  Rs.   cents  Rs.  cents 
 01 For a musical show 25,000 0 15,000 0 25,000 0
 02 outdoor drama shows and films  15,000 0 4,500 0 15,000 0
 03 For meetings, get together parties and  5,000 0 3,500 0 10,000 0
  awareness programs
 04 Commercial exhibition fair 10,000 0 5,000 0 10,000 0
 05 Preschool functions 2,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 06 educational seminars 10,000 0 3,000 0 10,000 0
 07 Wedding ceremonies 10,000 0 3,000 0 10,000 0
 08 For weddings (with a musical group) 10,000 0 7,500 0 10,000 0
 09 For prize giving functions 5,000 0 3,000 0 10,000 0
 B. A. 
meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of    
 executing powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Narammala,
08th September, 2017.
11-695/4

<!-- page 170 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1814
pradeshiya  sabha  - NarammaLa 
imposing charges under by law on advertisements/
Visual environment Tax for the y ear 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to 
be read with Sections 122 and 126 of said Act, I, B. A. 
Meththananda, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Narammala, who execute powers and discharge duties of 
the Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala do hereby determine 
under the resolution No. 3902 that imposing of charges for 
display of advertisements for the year 2018 within the area 
of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala should be as 
follows.  
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha, 
Narammala under Section 122(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 15 of 1987, I hereby determine to impose and 
levy charges set out in the following Schedule for the year 
2018 in respect of the display of Advertisements in the area 
of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala so as to be 
viewed by any street, road, canal or the sky in terms of by 
law on Advertisements/Visual environment which has been 
published in 39
th  Section of the Standard By-law No. 6 of 
1952, approved and published in the Extraordinary Gazette 
Paper no. 520/7 dated 23.08.1988 by the hon. Minister in 
Charge of the Subject of local Government and housing 
and construction and it has been accepted by the Pradeshiya 
Sabha, Narammala on 28.08.1998 and published in the Part 
IV(B) of Gazette No. 1043 and the said fee should be paid 
to the Pradeshiya Sabha at least before seven days from the 
date on which advertisement is intended to be displayed.
 B. A. 
meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of executing  
 powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
 
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala,
08th September, 2017. 
 
SChedule
 1. For the display of a temporary banner on conducting 
shows by levying charges or of business nature - Per 
month for sq. feet 01 - Rs. 20.
 2. Business notification displayed with the support of 
permanent hoarding - only for a period of one year - per 
sq. feet 01- is Rs. 100. 
 3. For notifications displayed with support of a permanent 
hoarding in respect of temporary films, drama shows 
-for a period of one month - per sq. ft. 01. - Rs. 30.
 4. For a display board made with electric bulbs and 
electrical items - for a period of one year - per sq. ft. 
-Rs. 100 and an annual fee of Rs.30 per every exceeding 
sq.ft. in each year. 
 5. For display of a notification on a rampart or a wall - 
annual fee of Rs. 100 per sq.ft. 
 6. For a banner or a name board displayed in respect of 
auctioning of lands - for a period of one month - per 
sq.ft 01 - Rs. 30.
11-695/5
––––––––––––––––––––
pradeshiya  sabha  - NarammaLa 
imposing License Fees for the y ear  2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be 
read with Section 147 and Section 149 of said Act, I, B. 
A. Meththananda, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Narammala, who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala do hereby determine under 
Resolution no. 3902 that imposing of license Fees for the 
year 2018 in respect of the area of authority of Pradeshiya 
Sabha, Narammala should be as follows.  
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sections 
147 and 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to 
be read with Sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the said Act, I 
hereby resolve to impose a license fee in respect of the issue 
of a license for the year 2018 authorizing a certain place or 
a premises to be utilized in the area of Pradeshiya Sabha 
narammala for any purpose referred to in the Column I as 
per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II of the 
same Schedule, for the year 2018 under the said by-law or 
a by-law made under the said by-law or a standard by-law 
adopted by Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala ; and
In an instance where such place referred to in the 
Schedule is a hotel, a restaurant or a lodge registered with 
or approved and accepted by the tourist Board in Sri lanka 
under Tourist Board Act, No. 14 of 1968, I hereby determine 
to impose and levy a license fee of one percent (1%) of 
receiving in the year 2017 from the said hotel, restaurant or 
lodge for the year 2018.
 
 B. A. 
meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of executing  
 powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
 
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala,
08th September, 2017.

<!-- page 171 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1815
SChedule
  Column I   Column II 
 
 Serial  Nature of the License Where annual   When  annual  When annual 
 No.   value does not value is exceeding  value is
   exceed  Rs.751 and not exceeding 
   Rs.750   exceeding Rs.1,500  Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 
 01  Running a restaurant or an eating house  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 02  For bakeries  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 03  Manufacture of sweets  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 04  For a tea or coffee shop  200 0  400 0  600 0 
 05  Storing packeted poultry chicken in refrigerators with  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
  a frank by a recognized institute for selling    
 06  Selling of fresh fish  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 07  For itinerant seller  300 0  500 0  1,000 0 
 08  Running a barber shop  300 0  500 0  750 0 
 09  Running a place for cleaning garments (a laundry)  300 0  500 0  750 0 
 10  Selling of meat    
  01. beef  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
  02. mutton  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
  03. pork  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
  04. poultry  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 11  Running a guest house  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 12  Storing chilled food  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 13  Selling of food  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 14  Making/storing/selling coffins  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 15 Running a place for storing/selling gas 500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 16 Selling of agro chemicals and manure 500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 17 Funerals and weddings (running a flower stall) 500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 18 Blasting granite manually by using bores 500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 19 Running a coir mill 500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 20 Industry of chopping coconut husk 500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 21 Transporting meat outside the area of authority 500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 22 Running a slaughter house  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 23 Fruit products 500 0  750 0  1,000 0
11-695/6
––––––––––––––––––––
pradeshiya   sabha   NarammaLa 
imposing business  Tax for the year  2018
 
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be 
read with Section 152(1) of said Act, I, B. A. Meththananda, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala, who 
execute powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala do hereby determine under resolution number 
that imposing of Business Tax for the year 2018 within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala should be as 
follows. 

<!-- page 172 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1816
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha 
Narammala under Sub-section (1) of Section 152 of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Sub-
section (3) of Section 9 of the said Act, I do hereby determine 
that a business tax should be imposed for the year 2018 from 
each person who maintains, within the area of authority of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala in 2018, any business for 
which a license should not be obtained under provisions 
of any By-law made thereunder or any tax which is not 
required to be paid under Section 150 of the said Act, in case 
the receipts in the year 2017 of the said business fall within 
the limits of any object number indicated in the Column I, 
as per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II of 
the following Schedule and the said tax should be paid to the 
Pradeshiya Sabha before 30th April, 2018.
 h. B. A. 
meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of executing  
 powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
 
08th September, 2017. 
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala. 
 
SChedule
PArt i
 1. A retail or whole sale shop
 2. Sale of rice
 3. Selling fruits 
 4. Running vegetable stalls 
 5. Selling portable water and bottles of water
 6. Storing cooled drinks, biscuits, milk powder, or other 
consumer products
 7. Running place for selling cooled drinks
 8. Running a herbal drinks stalls
 9. Storing and selling liquor and beer 
 10. Storing and selling of food stuff (retail)
 11. Running a super market
 12. Running a place for selling banana and king coconut
 13. Running a grocery for selling biscuits, tinned food, and 
other food
 14. Selling bakery products and sweets
 15. Buying and selling of local products
 16. A place of packeting tea leaves and spices
 17. Running a place for selling imperishable spices
 18. Packeting and selling of mushrooms
 19. Buying/ selling of Coppra
 20. Packeting and selling of dried food stuff
 21. Selling dried fish, salt, Jadi
 22. Packeting and selling of salt
 23. Running a place for packeting any kind of food item for 
selling
 24. Running a place for buying coconut
 25. Running a place for selling betel and tobacco
 26. Selling rice
 27.  Selling spices
 28. Running a coconut milk/ coconut oil mill and milling 
coconut oil for ire
 29. Running a place for selling coconut oil
 30. Running a place for selling betel and tobacco
 31. Rearing poultry and other animals for meat 
 32. Storing/ selling of animal food more than 10 hundreds 
(more than 500 kilograms)
 33. Running a hardware stores/building materials stores
 34. Running a place for selling foreign roofing tiles, bricks, 
granite and blocks
 35. Running a place for selling lime powder
 36. Running a cement store more than 10 hundreds weights 
(more than 500 kilograms)
 37. Storing/ selling paints
 38. Preparing building plans and estimates
 39. Running a place for selling building equipment 
 40. Running a Mattel Crusher 
 41. Blasting Mattel by compressors
 42. Storing/ selling diesel, Petrol, and kerosene oil
 43. Running place for mining sand
 44. Supplying Tarred products
 45. Storing and selling of Mattel and sand
 46. Running a timber sales outlet
 47. Running a furniture shop
 48. Major scale furniture houses
 49. Running a place of selling ceramic items
 50. Selling of fancy items (including ornamental items)
 51. Running a marketing show room
 52. Running a place for selling plastic items
 53. Running a place for selling Aliminiamware
 54. Selling books and school items 
 55. Selling newspapers
 56. Running a shoe palace
 57. Selling a place for selling spectacles

<!-- page 173 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1817
 58. Running a pla ce of selling ornamental fish and birds
 59. Selling lotteries
 60. Running a place for selling garments and textiles
 61. Selling cut pieces of textiles (cut piece)
 62. Selling cane products
 63. Selling fire extinguishers
 64. Running a place for selling electric items, and spare 
parts of electric item
 65. Manufacture and  selling of weighing scales
 66.  Selling agro chemicals
 67. Selling computers and spare parts of computers
 68. Running a place for selling glass
 69. Selling clay products
 70. Selling machinery and technical equipment
 71. Selling sacred items 
 72.  Running a place of three wheelers and motor bicycles
 73. Running a place of selling tires and tubes 
 74. Storing/ selling spare parts of bicycles 
 75. Selling spare parts of motor bicycles
 76. Selling spare parts of motor vehicles
 77. Running vehicle show rooms for (sale), exchange
 78.  Manufacturing cables for motor vehicles
 79. Running a place for checking emission of vehicles 
smoke
 80. Running a photo studio/ photo editing center
 81. Running a place for renting out public speaking 
systems  
 82. Selling Sinhala Medicine   
 83. Running a place for making dentures 
 84. Running a western dispensary
 85. Running a pharmacy (western medicine) 
 86. Running a center of medical specialists and a laboratory
 87. Running an Ayurvedic dispensary
 88. Storing Ayurvedic medicine for selling 
 89. Running an Ayurvedic manufactory 
 90. Running a place for conducting computer courses
 91. Running a body fitness center 
 92. Running a business of supplying man power
 93. Running a private preschool charging fees   
 94. Running one or more photocopy machines
 95. Running a cinema
 96.  Running record bar
 97. Running a place for recording and selling videos
 98. Running a place fo r training driving 
 99. driving schools 
 100. Repairing and selling of mobile phones and selling of 
spare parts
 101. Running Cigarette agency 
 102. Running a plant nursery and selling of plants (flower, 
vegetable and other plants) 
 103. Running a place for making advertisements
 104. Private property companies 
 105. Running a marketing center
 106. Private transport owners
 107. Private tuition holders
 108. Private bus owners
 109. hired vehicle owners
 110. Supplying of hired vehicle services 
 111. Running a beauty culture center
 112. Running a telephone booth 
 113. Running a tele communication office or tele
   communication tower
 114. Tele communication towers
 115. Running a bank, finance institutes and insurance 
companies 
 116. Running an astrolog er' office
 117. Running a place for assembling and manufacturing 
polythene 
 118. Collecting and selling old damaged materials (bottles, 
old metal and plastic) 
 119. Manufacturing and selling of compost manure
 120. Carbon products 
 121. Juky machine training and running a garment factory
 122. Manufacture and selling of tea boxes
 123. running a factory
 124. Timber mills
 125. Running a running industries of coir products
 126. Crushing plastic and manufacture of plastic ware 
 127. Collecting and selling coconuts 
 128. Suppliers 
 129. Running a race bookies
 130. Finance investors
 131. employment agents
 132. Pawn brokers
 133. Contractors
 134. Running an office
 135. Running a business as a commission agents
 136. Agents of foreign pilgrimages
 137. Good transport agencies/ transport of goods
 138. Renting out of musical instruments for musical shows

<!-- page 174 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1818
 139. Running a business of catering food and beverages, 
accommodation for weddings or other events
 140. Renting out wedding suits (female/ male)
 141. Supplying ceremonial items
 142. Chinese restaurants
 143. Running a tourist hotel
 144. exporting goods
PArt 2
 Income received form the business  Tax 
 during the previous year   payable
 the tax is relevant Rs. cts.
1.  Where annual income does not exceed   None
 Rs. 6,000
2. Where annual income exceeds Rs 6,000  but  90 0
 does not exceed Rs. 12,000 
3. Where annual income exceeds Rs 12,000  180 0
 but does not exceed Rs. 18,750 
4. Where annual income exceeds Rs 18,750  360 0
 but does not exceed Rs. 75,000 
5. Where annual income exceeds Rs 75,000    1,200 0
 but does not exceed Rs. 150,000 
6. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 150,000  3,000 0
11-695/7
NarammaLa  pradeshiya  sabha  
imposing industrial Tax for the year 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read 
with Section 150(1) of said Act, I, B. A. Meththananda, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala, who execute 
powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala do hereby determine under resolution No. 3902 that 
imposing of Industrial Tax for the year 2018 within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala in terms of 
provisions of Section 150(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, to be read with Section 9.3 
of the said Act should be as follows. 
By virtue of powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read 
with Section 9.3 of the said Act, I do hereby determine that, an Industrial Tax for the year 2018 on each industry carried out 
within the administrative limits of Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala referred to in Column I in the following Schedule as per 
the rates specified in the corresponding Column II should be imposed and levied for the Year 2018.  
 B. A. 
meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of executing   
 powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
08th September, 2017. 
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala. 
SChedule
  Column I   Column II 
 
 Serial  The nature of the Business  Where annual   Where annual  Where annual 
 No.   value does not value is exceeding  value is exceeding
   exceed  Rs.751 and not Rs. 1,500
   Rs.750   exceeding
    Rs.1,500  
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 
 01  An electrically operated press  400 0  650 0  1,000 0  
 02  A manually operated press  300 0  500 0  750 0  
 03 Non mechanized kilning of bricks/tiles  500 0  750 0  1,000 0  
 04  Recharging batteries  300 0  500 0  800 0  
 05  A place for repairing tires and tubes  300 0  500 0  750 0  
 06  A place for sawing timber manually  500 0  750 0  1,000 0  
 07  A place for repairing bicycles  300 0  500 0  750 0  
 08  Running a firewood shed  400 0  700 0  1,000 0  
 09  Running a lime  kiln  500 0  750 0  1,000 0  
 Income received form the business  Tax 
 during the previous year   payable
 the tax is relevant Rs. cts.

<!-- page 175 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1819
 10  Running a place for repairing motor bicycles  300 0  500 0  750 0  
 11  For a place of manufacturing eakle brooms and brooms 300 0  600 0  800 0  
 12  Running a carpentry shed (manually)  300 0  600 0  800 0  
 13  Running a carpentry shed (mechanized)  500 0  750 0  1,000 0  
 14  Running a place for servicing vehicles  500 0  750 0  1,000 0  
 15  Running a welding workshop and lathe machine  500 0  750 0  1,000 0  
 16  Repair of watches  300 0  500 0  750 0  
 17  Repair of musical equipment 500 0  750 0  1,000 0  
 18 Servicing motor bicycles/ three wheelers  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 19  For manufacturing glass products  400 0  650 0  800 0 
 20 Manufacturing break liners 300 0 500 0 750 0 
 21  A place for framing pictures  300 0  500 0  750 0 
 22  A place for manufacturing and selling clay items  300 0  600 0  1,000 0 
 23 Manufacturing and selling concrete cylinders or other  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  concrete items
 24 A place for manufacturing/storing jeweleries 300 0 600 0 800 0
 25 A place for dress making :
  (1) More than 01 and less than 5 machines  400 0  600 0  800 0 
  (2) More than 5 machines  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 26  Running a cushion workshop  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 27  Manufacture of candles and incense sticks  300 0  500 0  750 0 
 28  Cultivation of mushrooms  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 29  A place for twisting ropes  400 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 30  Manufacture and selling of fabric carpets  300 0  500 0  750 0 
 31  Manufacture and selling of Papadam  400 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 32  Chopping coconut logs for selling  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 33  Manufacturing cigars and Beedi 500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 34  Running a place for bottling Aurvedic medicines  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 35  Running a motor garage  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 36  For manufacturing Coppra  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 37  Running an iron smithy  300 0  600 0  800 0 
 38  For a smithy using oxygen  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 39 For a mill for grinding chilies, and grains  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 40  Running a paddy mill (without compound)  350 0  600 0  800 0 
 41  A paddy mill from horse Power 01 to horse Power 20  400 0  700 0  1,000 0 
  (with compound)     
 42  A paddy mill more than horse Power 20 (with compound)  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 43  Running a place for cutting keys  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 44  Manufacture of shoes  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 45  Running a coir mill  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 46  Industry of chopping coconut husk  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 47  Repair of injector pumps  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 48  Industry of converting iron into Nickel  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 49  A place for mechanized/electrically weaving textiles  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 50  A place for manufacturing furniture  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 51  A place for repairing radios and televisions  400 0  700 0  1,000 0 
  Column I   Column II 
 
 Serial  The nature of the Business  Where annual   Where annual  Where annual 
 No.   value does not value is exceeding  value is exceeding
   exceed  Rs.751 and not Rs. 1,500
   Rs.750   exceeding
    Rs.1,500  
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 

<!-- page 176 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1820
 52  Repair of electrical items  500 0  800 0  1,000 0 
 53  Running an industry of manufacturing soap  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 54  Bathik industry  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 55  Manufacture and selling of sports equipment  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 56  Repair of injector pumps  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 57  Manufacture and selling of flower pots 400 0  600 0  800 0 
 58  Running an animal farm (poultry, pigs, goats and cattle)  500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 59 Manufacturing and selling of coconut coal 500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
 60 Making bodies for lorries 500 0  750 0  1,000 0 
  
11-695/8
––––––––––––––––––––
  Column I   Column II 
 
 Serial  The nature of the Business  Where annual   Where annual  Where annual 
 No.   value does not value from  value exceeds
   exceed  Rs.750 to Rs. 1,500
   Rs.750   Rs.1,500  
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 
pradeshiya   sabha   – NarammaLa
imposing Charges in respect of disposal of solid Waste 
for the year - 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be 
read with Section 122 and paragraphs (b) and (d) of Sub-
section IX of Section 93 and 126 of the said Act, I, B. A. 
Meththananda, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Narammala, who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala do hereby determine under 
resolution No. 3902 that imposing of charges for disposal of 
Solid Waste should be as follows. 
the By-law on Solid Waste Management which has 
been made by the hon. Chief Minister in the north Western 
Province and the Minister of Finance and Planning, law 
and order, local Government and Regional Administration, 
human Resources, education and Cultural Affairs, land, 
environment, tourism, Investment Co-ordination, Co-
operative development and Food Supply and distribution 
and published in Part (IV)(A) of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka no. 1933/40 dated 25.09.2015 by 
virtue of powers vested in him under Section 03 of local 
Government (Standard By-law) Act, No. 06 of 1952, has been 
adopted by the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala and published 
in Part IV(A) of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka 
1964 dated 22.04.2016 and I the secretary to the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Narammala do hereby decide that an annual fee of 
Rs. 100 should be imposed and levied for the year 2018 in 
respect of disposal of solid waste from non-domestic units 
and business premises, by virtue of powers vested in the 
Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 1987 to be read with paragraphs (b) and (d) of Sub-
section IX of Section 93 and 126 of the said Act and in terms 
of the provisions of said By-law. 
 B. A. 
meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of executing  
 powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
08th September, 2017. 
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala. 
11-695/9
pradeshiya   sabha   – NarammaLa
Levying charges for cremation of dead bodies at 
Oliyadeniya Crematorium for the year - 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
Section 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to 
be read with Section 69 and Section 126 of the said Act, 
and by virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha 
under Section 03 of local Government Institutes (Standard 
by laws) Act no. 06 of 1952, I, B. A. Meththananda, 
the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala, who 
execute powers and discharge duties of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Narammala do hereby determine under resolution                                                      
No. 3902 that imposing of charges for cremation of dead 
bodies in the Crematorium at oliyadeniya should be as 
follows. 

<!-- page 177 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1821
SChedule
 Rs. cts. 
For cremation of a dead body of a resident within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha 6,000 0
 
For cremation of a dead body of a resident outside the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha 7,000 0
 B. A. meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of executing powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
08th September, 2017,
head office of the narammala Pradeshiya Sabha.
  
11-695/10
––––––––––––––––––––
pradeshiya  sabha  - NarammaLa
Levying other Charges for the year - 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I,                                 
B. A. Meththananda, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha narammala, who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala do hereby determine under resolution No. 3902 that levying other charges for the year 2018 
in respect of the services provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala should be as follows.  
 B. A. 
meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of executing powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
 
08th September, 2017. 
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala.  
 Rs. cts. 
 01. t itle certificates such as certificates of street lines and non-vesting   700 0
  certificate, certificate on building limits
  Application fee for certificate of street lines and non vesting certificates, certificates of building limits 100 0
 02. Application fee for transferring ownership, changing the name in the Assessment Register and  
  other certificate 200 0
 03. Certificates of building conformity 300 0
 04. extension of valid period of building application for a one year  300 0
 05. For building applications 300 0
 06. Fees on construction on buildings are levied in terms of urban development Authority Gazette 
  No. 1597/8 dated 17.04.2009
 07. Application fee for felling dangerous trees 300 0
 08. Application fee for environment applications and renewal applications  200 0
 09. Application fee for blocking out lands 2,000 0
 10. Fines on dishonored cheques 100 0
 11. Application fee for approving a plan 100 0
 12. environment application fee :  1,250 0

<!-- page 178 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1822
  If the investment is less than Rs. 10,000  250 0
  If the investment in between Rs. 10,001 to Rs. 100,000 500 0
  If the investment in between Rs. 100,001 to Rs. 500,000 1,250 0
  If the investment in between Rs. 500,001 to Rs. 1,000,000 2,500 0
  If the investment exceeds Rs. 1,000,000 5,000 0
 13. Misplaced books - current price of the book + an amount of 40%  
 14. obtaining a certificate to the effect that assessment tax is paid 200 0
 15. Obtaining extracts of Assessment register for a valuation register in respect of a property 300 0
 16. Issuing a certificate to the effect that a business license has been obtained 200 0
 17. For a copy of lost certificates 300 0
 18. Registration of suppliers 500 0
 19. levying charges (tickets) from vehicles parks at the bus stand 25 0
 20. Registration fee for vehicle parks (three wheelers, vans, buses, lorries, tractors and hand tractors)
  Registration fee: 200 0
  license fee for three wheelers - annually 750 0
  license fee for vans - annually 2,000 0
  license fee for lorries - annually 2,000 0
  license fee for buses - annually 2,500 0
  license fee for four wheeled big tractor - annually 2,000 0
  license fee for hand tractor - annually 1,500 0
 21. Propaganda programs :
   * On food by using only one vehicle (for 8 hours) 3,000 0
     ( Rs. 100 will be levied for every exceeding hour)
  * Propaganda programs conducted by vehicle fairs, telephone companies and other propaganda    
programs and meetings (for a period of 8 hours) 5,000.00
(Rs. 100.00 will be levied for every exceeding hour)
11-695/11
––––––––––––––––––––
pradeshiya  sabha  - NarammaLa 
Levying Charges in respect of letting Community halls and sports grounds - 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 I, B. 
A. Meththananda, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala, who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala do hereby determine that levying charges in respect of letting sports grounds and community 
halls for the year 2018 of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala should be as follows. 
I hereby determine that the charges set out in the following Schedule No. 01 should be levied in respect of letting 
narammala and dambadeni Community halls owned by Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala and charges set out in the Schedule 
02 in respect of letting u. B. Wijekoon Sports ground, dambadeni Public Sports grounds, Shantha Bandara Sports Ground, 
dambadeniya and outdoor places other than sports grounds should be levied. 
 B. A. Meththananda.,
 Secretary and the officer of executing powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
 
08th September, 2017. 
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala. 
 Rs. cts. 

<!-- page 179 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1823
SChedule no. 01
letting community  hAlls
   Description  Rent fee  Electricity and  Security
     water  deposits
   Rs.   Cents  Rs.   Cents  Rs.  Cents 
 01.  For a book exhibition :
  (1) First day  4,000 0  1,000 0 5,000 0
  (2) Second day  2,500 0 1,000 0  
  Rs. 1,000 per day in an instance exceeding 2 days 1,000 0 1,000 0
 02. For a function of differently abled people - per day 1,000 0 1,000 0 2,000 0
 03. For a commercial or business exhibition 5,000 0 2,500 0 5,000 0
 04. For a commercial fair 5,000 0 2,500 0 5,000 0
 05. For a prize giving function 3,000 0 2,000 0 2,000 0
 06. For beauty culture exhibition 4,000 0 1,500 0 2,000 0
 07. For wedding (within the limits of Pradeshiya Sabha) 8,000 0 2,000 0 5,000 0
  - per day 
 08. For wedding (outside the limits of Pradeshiya Sabha) 10,000 0 2,000 0 5,000 0
  (fee for cleaning per day - Rs. 1,500)
 09. Meeting and get together - per day 3,000 0 1,500 0 3,000 0
 10. For educational seminar - per day 4,000 0 2,000 0 5,000 0
 11. For a preschool function (if the place is badly unclean 2,000 0 1,500 0 3,000 0
  after a pre-school function, the deposit will not be 
  refunded)
 12. Karate classes (half day) 2,000 0 1,000 0 3,000 0
 13. For an alms giving function - per day 2,000 0 1,500 0 3,000 0
  (if the place become badly unclean the deposit
  will not be refunded)
 14. For drama performance (fee for cleaning - Rs. 1,500) 8,000 0 4,000 0 10,000 0
 15. Awareness Programms of self-employment 2,000 0 1,000 0 2,000 0
 16. For musical shows (fee for cleaning - Rs. 2,000) 8,000 0 4,000 0 10,000 0
SChedule no. 02
Letting pubilc sports grounds : 
   Description  Rent fee  Electricity and  Surety
     Water bills  deposits
   Rs.   cents  Rs.   cents  Rs.  cents 
 01. For all public meetings 3,000 0 1,500 0 5,000 0
  (per day) (fee for cleaning per day - Rs. 1,500)
 02. For musical shows or any other function - per day 10,000 0 5,000 0 25,000 0
  (fee for cleaning per day - Rs. 3,000)
 03. Sports competitions or sports festivals - per day 3,000 0 1,000 0 5,000 0
 04. For a commercial fair - per day 7,000 0 5,000 0 10,000 0
  (fee for cleaning per day - Rs. 3000)
 05. Marketing promotion program 4,000 0 2,000 0 3,000 0
 06. For a preschool function 2,000 0 1,000 0 2,000 0
(If the place is badly unclean after a pre-school function, the deposit will not be refunded)
11-695/12

<!-- page 180 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1824
pradeshiya  sabha  - NarammaLa 
imposing tax in respect of letting machinery owned by the pradeshiya sabha for the year - 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under provisions of Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 
I, B. A. Meththananda, the Secretary to the Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala, who execute powers and discharge duties of the 
Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala do hereby determine under the resolution number 3902 dated 08.09.2017 that imposing of tax 
in respect o f letting machinery owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha for the year 2018 should be as follows.
 B. A. meththAnAndA,
 Secretary and the officer of executing powers and duties,
 Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala.
 
08th September, 2017. 
head office of Pradeshiya Sabha, narammala. 
Letting machinery owned by the pradeshiya sabha.
motor grader - NWZa  0061
 Within the area of authority (per 01 hour) Within the area of authority (per hour)
 
 Without fuel with fuel
 Rs. cents Rs. cents
Fees 2,500.00   Per hour 2,500.00
Including Vat and    Including Vat and   
Nation Building tax    Nation Building tax
      
    For fuel 950.00
Outside the area of authority (per  hour)  Outside the area of authority (per  hour)  
 Without fuel with fuel
 Rs. cents Rs. cents
Fee 2,600.00   Fee 2,600.00
Including Vat and    Including Vat and
Nation Building tax    Nation Building tax    
    For fuel 950.00
J.C.b (bacco loader) NWrs 1753 
 Within the area of authority (per hour) Within the area of authority (per hour)
 
 Without fuel with fuel
 Rs. cents Rs. cents
Fee 1,550.00   Fee 1,550.00
Including Vat and    Including Vat and   
Nation Building tax)    Nation Building tax)
      
    For fuel 760.00
Outside the area of authority (per  hour)  Outside the area of authority (per  hour)  

<!-- page 181 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1825
 Without fuel with fuel
 Rs. cents Rs. cents
 
Fee 1,750.00   Fee 2,650.00
(Including Vat and Nation    (Including Vat and Nation
Building Tax)    building Tax)    
    For fuel 760.00
road roller of 02 Tons
Without fuel
 Rs. cts.
Per hour 500 0
(Including Vat and Nation
Building Tax)
For fuel (greese) 30 0
(Transport and fuel charges should be borne by the customer)
road roller of 7 – 10 Tons – NW hd70
 Without fuel (per hour) with fuel (per hour)
 Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Fee 1,300.00   Fee 1,300.00
(Including Vat and Nation    (Including Vat and Nation
Building Tax)    Building Tax)
    
    For fuel 665.00
(Trasnport and fuel charges should be borne by the customer) 
11-695/13
kaNdy   mUNiCipaL  COUNCiL
imposing of Trade License Charges – year 2018
B y virtue of powers vested in the Kandy Municipal 
Council under Section 247(A) of the Municipal Councils 
ordinance, (Chapter 252) of the legislative enactments of 
the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka and the 
Schedule framed under following By-laws, for the activities 
given in the Column I, having granted permission to use such 
places on the basis of the trade license charges decided by 
the Council, for such activity shown in Column I and in 
accordance with the annual value as shown in the Column 
II. It is approved to impose and levy trade license charges 
for the year 2018 by the decision No. 1781 of 25.09.2017.
The remittances of these charges shall be completed on 
or before 31st March, 2018. In addition to this, a charge at 
ten percent (10%) for fire prevention will be recovered and, 
together with these charges V AT and stamp fees will also be 
recovered. 
 Municipal Commissioner, 
 Kandy Municipal Council. 
 
Municipal office, Kandy,
On  25th October, 2017.

<!-- page 182 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1826
SChedule 
year 2018
trAde licence chArges in terms of section “A”  
 Column I    Column II
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
 
 01. To carry out a bakery 1,200  1,500 2,000 3,000 3,500 4,500 5,000
 02. To maintain a cattle/goat dairy - 
  less than 5 goats/cattle 500 750  1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000
  goats/cattle 5-10 750 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
  goats/cattle 10-20 1,000  1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
  more than 20 goats/cattle 1,500  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 5,000
 03. To maintain a milk bar  1,200  1,700 2,200 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
 04. To maintain a place of sale of ice cream or  1,200  1,700 2,200 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
  cool drink 
 05. To carry out a tea boutique 1,000 1,200 1,500 1,800 2,000 2,500 3,500
 06. To maintain an eating house or restaurant or   1,200 1,700 2,500 3,000 4,200 5,000 5,000
  a hotel - 
  (a) with liquor but without lodging facilities  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 5,000 5,000
  (b) without liquor but with lodging facilities  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 5,000 5,000
  (c) with liquor and lodging facilities  3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000
    (permitted by the excise department) 
 07. To maintain a restaurant and/ or a hotel  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  registered or approved or recognized in the 
  Tourist Board under the Tourism 
  development Act (If the commencing year)
 08. To maintain a guest house registered or   5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  approved or recognized in the Tourist Board 
  under the tourism development Act 
  (if the commencing year) 
 09. to maintain a Guest-house not registered  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  or not approved in the Tourist Board under 
  the tourist development Act
  (a) To maintain for the year 2018 also a guest A sum equivalent to 0.5% of total amount received or to be
   house run in the year 2017 registered or  received for supplies and services carried out when keeping a   
 approved in the Tourist Board under the guest house in the year 2017
   t ourism development Act
  (b) To maintain for the year 2018 also a  A sum equivalent to 0.5% of total amount received or to be   
   restaurant run in the year 2017 registered or received for supplies and services carried out when
   approved or recognized in the Tourist Board keeping a restaurant in the year 2017     
   under the tourism development Act 
  (c) To maintain for the year 2018 also a hotel A sum equivalent to 0.25% of total amount received or to be   
   run in the year 2017 registered or approved  received for supplies and services carried out when
   or recognized in the Tourist Board under keeping a hotel in the year 2017 
   the tourism development Act 
 10. To maintain a hotel and/or restaurant not  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  registered or not approved or reco gnized in
  the Tourist Board under the Tourism 
  developm ent Act (if the commencing year)  

<!-- page 183 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1827
 11. To manufacture and/or store and/or sell the  1,600 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,200 3,700 5,000
  manure 
 12. To maintain a place for leather tanning or 3,200 3,700 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  place for storage of leather 
 13. Storage of rubber sheets and scrap-rubber  1,000 1,200 1,700 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 
  and/or to dry and process same or sale 
 14. To maintain a concrete block or concrete  1,700 2,200 2,700 3,700 4,000 4,700 5,000
  workshop 
 15. To maintain a brick and/or tile and/or 1,200 1,400 1,700 2,200 2,400 2,700 3,500
  lime kiln
 16. To maintain a store of dried groceries such  3,300 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  as rice, sugar, flour or place for whole sale 
 17. To maintain a place for retail sale of  1,400 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,500 4,500
  dried goods such as rice, sugar, flour  
 18. To maintain a Grocery 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,200 3,500 4,000 5,000
 19. Sale of vegetable (except central market)  2,200 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
  wholesale
 20. To maintain a rubber tyre rebuilding factory 3,300 4,400 4,600 4,800 5,000 5,000 5,000
 21. To maintain a rubber -tube vulcanizing place 700 1,000 1,000 1,300 1,500 2,000 2,500
 22.  To maintain a funeral parlor service 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 23. To maintain a beauty culture and/or bridal  2,200 2,700 3,300 3,700 4,000 4,500 5,000
  dressing centre 
 24. Storage of animal food and/or sale 1,700 2,000 2,200 3,200 3,500 4,400 5,000
 25. Sale of vegetable whole sale (Central market) 2,500 2,800 3,000 3,250 3,500 4,000 5,000
 26. Sale of vegetable retail (Central market) 1,500 1,800 2,300 3.000 3,250 3,500 4,000
 27. Sale of vegetable retail (except central market)  1,200 1,500 1,600 2,000 2,300 2,500 3,000
 28. Sale of fruit (Central market) 1,500 1,750 2,500 2,750 3,000 3,500 4,000
 29. Sale of fruit (except central market) 1,000 1,250 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
 30. Fish whole sale (Central market) 3,200 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 31. Fish retail sale (Central market) 1,500 1,700 2,000 2.500 2,800 3,000 3,500
 32. tobacco (Central market) 850 900 1,000 1,100 1,200 1,300 1,700
 33. Fish retail sale (except central market) 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 4,000 5,000
 34. Storage/sale of agricultural chemicals  1,700 2,200 2,700 3,600 3,800 4,400 5,000
 35. Sale of processed, chilled or fish packets 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 4,300 5,000
 36. Sale of processed chilled meat packets  1,100 1,600 2,200 3,200 3,500 4,400 5,000
  (such as Keels feeds)
 37. To maintain a poultry fence  1,100 1,600 2,200 3,200 3,500 4,400 5,000
 38. To maintain a place for sale of bakery 2,200 3,300 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  products
 39. To maintain an Quarry 1,700 2,000 2,500 3,000 4,000 4,500 5,000
 40. To maintain a metal works 2,700 3,200 3,700 4,000 4,200 4,700 5,000
 41. to maintain a timber or firewood sawing mill 2,750 3,300 3,850 4,400 4,800 5,000 5,000
  (with machinery) 
 42. to maintain timber or firewood sawing mill 850 1,100 1,500 1,700 2,000 2,300 2,600
  (Manually) 
 43. To maintain a carpentry shop (manually) 850 1,100 1,500 1,700 2,000 2,300 2,600
 44. To maintain a carpentry shop 1,700 2,200 2,750 3,300 3,500 4,400 5,000
  (with machinery)
 Column I    Column II
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 184 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1828
 45. To maintain a coconut oil or gingerly oil mill
  (with machinery) 500 600 700 900 1,000 1,200 2,000
 46. To maintain  a place for cigarette or other
  tobacco production and/or preparing 3,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 47. Bulk storage or sale of Cigarette and/or other 
  Tobacco products   5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 48. Bulk sale of beedi and/or manufacture of same 1,000 1,200 1,500 1,700 2,000 2,500 3,500
 49. Manufacturing or sale of confectionary   1,200 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,500 5,000
 50. To maintain a welding workshop 1,700 2,200 2,700 4,400 4,800 5,000 5,000
 51. to maintain a Motor Vehicle Factory
  and/or a garage and/or a vehicle repairing  3,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  workshop
  52. To maintain a Vehicle service station  3,500 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 53. To maintain a Press 1,650 2,200 2,750 3,500 4,000 4,400 5,000
 54. To maintain a place for repairing of 1,650 2,200 2,750 3,300 3,500 4,000 4,500
  motor bicycles
 55. Storage and sale of coconut oil  850 1,700 2,000 2,300 2,500 2,800 3,500
 56. To maintain a garment Factory and/or 
  tailoring shop
    (a) 10 machines or more   4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
    (b) less than 10 machines or more than 3  1,200 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,500
    (c) 03 machines or less  1,100 1,400 1,800 2,200 2,500 3,000 3,500
 57. To maintain a tin workshop or Aluminum 
  ware factory 500 550 700 800 1,000 1,300 1,500
 58. To maintain a spray painting workshop 1,700 2,200 3,300 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 59. To maintain a place for repairing of 2,200 3,400 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  diesel pumps and/or sticking of clutch 
  plates and brake liners and/or front 
  wheel balancing of vehicles
 60. to maintain a Gas filling station (oxygen) 2,700 3,800 4,700 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 61. To maintain a Three-wheeler service station 1,200 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,500 4,500
 62. To maintain a spring blade workshop  1,000 1,200 1,700 2,200 2,500 2,800 3,500
 63. To maintain a Tinker workshop 1,000 1,200 1,700 2,200 2,500 3,000 3,500
 64. to maintain an electricians workshop 1,400 1,700 2,300 2,800 3,000 3,500 4,500
 65. To maintain Barber shop  
  (i) 3 seats or less 600 700 1,500 1,600 2,000 2,200 2,500
  (ii) More than 03 seats  900 1,200 1,500 1,800 2,000 2,500 3,000
 66. to maintain a laundry and/or laundray  1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
  dry-cleaning place and/or fabric 
  painting place  
 67. to maintain a electric plating place or 
  chromium plating place and/or gold 
  plating place 
  (a) with machinery 1,700 2,200 3,300 4,400 4,700 5,000 5,000
  (b) Without Machinery 350 500 550 650 800 1,000 1,200
 68. To maintain a Gold or Silver jewellery place 1,700 2,500 3,000 3,300 3,800 4,000 4,500
 69. Storage of oxygen and/or bio-gas and/or sale 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,300  3,500 4,000 5,000
 70. Mainly, sale of gun powder or crackers  1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
 71. Carry out of a Fabric printing and/or 600 900 1,100 1,700 2,000 2,200 2,500
  painting place  
 Column I    Column II
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 185 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1829
 Column I    Column II
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
 72. Carry out of a Refrigerator repairing place 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 4,400 5,000
 73. Maintaining of a factory (with machinery) 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,600 4,000 4,500
 74. Maintaining of a battery charging place and/or 600 900 1,100 1,700 2,000 2,200 2,500
  repairing place  
 75. Maintaining of a lathe 1,600 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 4,400 5,000
 76. Maintaining of electric appliance  2,200 2,750 3,300 3,700 4,000 4,400 5,000
  repairing place
 77. Maintaining of a textile factory 350 450 600 850 1,000 1,150 1,700
 78. Maintaining of an ice storage place 1,700 2,200 2,750 3,200 3,500 3,700 4,400
 79. Festival catering service  1,700 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 4,400 5,000
 80. to keep a place for sale of Fondle fish or 1,000 1,200 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 5,000
  pet animals  
 81. To keep a place for collection of toddy  3,300 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  and/or storage or sale  
 82. Sale of toddy bottles  2,700 2,900 3,300 3,700 4,000 4,400 5,000
 83. To run a bar 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 84. To run a foreign liquor bar 2,500 3,000 3,500 3,700 4,000 4,500 5,000
 85. Storage of drugs or sale (Ayurvedic) 1,700 2,200 2,750 3,200 3,500 3,700 4,400
 86. Storage of Medicines or sale (western) 2,750 3,300 3,850 4,200 4,500 4,800 5,000
 87. Storage/sale of eggs  850 1,100 1,600 2,200 2,400 2,700 3,300
 88. To maintain a medical laboratory  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 89. Sale, production or storage of batik  1,600 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 3,900 4,400
 90. To maintain a private veterinary hospital 2,200 3,200 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 91. To run a body building centre  2,500 3,500 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  (by charging fees) 
 92. To run a massage centre 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 93. To maintain a private dental surgery 2,250 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 4,800 5,000
 94. Sale of purified salt packets 350 400 450 500 600 700 800
 95. Manufacturing of milky foods and/or sale 1,200 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,500 4,000
 96. To run a place for storage and sale of 1,200 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,500 4,000
  fruit products
 97. Repairing of silencers 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 98. To maintain a place for repairing of  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
  three wheelers 
 99. To maintain a place for sale of fried gram 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
 100. Sale of chilled chicken 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 101. Sale of tobacco (except central market) 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
 102. Production and sale of mushrooms   500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
 103. A place for sale of gruel and herbal drinks 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
 104. Maintaining of a poultry fence for meat 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500
 105. Maintaining of yoghurt 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
 106. to maintain a fiber workshop 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
 107. To maintain a chilly and/or paddy and/or
  other grains and/or cumin seed and/or 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
  coffee grinding mill
 108. Storage of sale of acids 5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000
 109. Sale of Audio instruments 2,000 2,500 3,000  4,000  4,500 5,000 5,000
 110. To maintain a private hospitals 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000

<!-- page 186 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1830
 111. Production, storage and/or sale of 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
  leather goods
112.  Storage of tea (mainly) or sale 1,000 1,200  1,500 1,700 2,000 2,500 3,500 
 113. Storage or sale of agriculture seeds   700 900 1,200 1,500 1,700 1,900 2,000
 114. Collection and storage of gunny bags and/or  1,850 2,200 2,750 3,300 3,700 4,400 5,000
  disposed bottles and/or paper
 115. Purchasing or sale of copra and/or (pillow) 1,650 2,750 3,300 3,800 4,000 4,400 5,000
  Kapok and/or cinnamon and/or areconut 
  and/or coffee and/or cocoa and/or spices 
  such as mace or pepper
 116. To maintain a place for storage and sale of  1,650 2,200 2,750 3,300 3,500 4,400 5,000
  firewood
 117. Sale of building materials (tiles, bricks,  2,200 2,700 3,300 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  asbestos, ceiling sheets, cement, lime etc.) 
 118. Storage or sale of paints and/or varnish 2,700 3,300 3,800 4,400 4,800 5,000 5,000
 119. To maintain a place for sale and/or storage  1,200 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,300 4,400
  of vehicle batteries
 120. To maintain a joss sticks manufactory and/or 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
  sale 
 121. To run a place for sale of betel with  1,100 1,150 1,500 1,800 2,000 2,200 2,500
  areconut (except central market) 
 122. To run a place for sale of betel with  500 750 1,000 1,500 1,800 2,000 2,500
  areconut (Central market)
 123. To maintain a place for conducting of 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
  Tuition classes
 124. Storage of petroleum  3,300 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 125. Sale of kerosene oil (retail) 500 600 650 700 800 900 1,000
 126. Maintaining of an international school 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 127. Manufacture of a seedling plot 600 900 1,100 1,400 1,500 1,650 2,200
 128. to conduct a Montessori  2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000
 129. To maintain a day care-centre  1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 4,000 5,000 5,000
 130. To run a place for packetting of fried grams,  1,100 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,300 4,400
  Murukku
 131. Providing of Reception hall facilities 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000
 132. To run a place for sale of perfume and 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4.500 5,000
  body lotion
133. A place for packetting of chilly, curry powder, 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
  turmeric or other grains
 134. To maintain a vegetables/fruits importing  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  company
 135. to maintain a dry fish and sprat stores 1,600 2,200 2,600 3,300 3,500 4,400 5,000
 136. Packetting and sale of dry food  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 137. To maintain a place for packetting and 500 600 800 1,000 1,250 1,750 2,500
  sale of tea
138. To maintain a place for sale of laboratory  2,500 2,750 3,000 3,500 3,750 4,000 4,500
  instruments and medical instruments
 139. To maintain a palce for sharpening of pairs of  400 600 900 950 1,050 1,100 1,200
  scissors
 Column I    Column II
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 187 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1831
 140. Storage and sale of coconuts 1,000 1,500 2,000  2,500  3,000  3,500 4,000
 141. To maintain a place for rep airing of computers 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000
 142. To maintain a place for repairing of cameras 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000
 143. To maintain a place for manufacture and 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000
  sale of soya foods
 144. To maintain a shoe factory 1,700 2,000 2,200 3,200 3,500 4,500 5,000
11-899/1
 Column I    Column II
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
kaNdy   mUNiCipaL  COUNCiL     
imposing of Trade business and professional Tax  - year 
2018
BY virtue of powers vested in the Kandy Municipal Council 
under Section 247(C) of the Municipal Councils ordinance, 
(Chpater 252) of the legislative enactments of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka and the schedule 
framed under following By-laws, for the trade business and 
professional tax activities given in the Column I, having 
granted permission to use such places on the basis of the 
trade Business and Profession tax decided by the Council, 
for the trade business and profession shown in Column I and 
in accordance with the annual value as shown in the column 
II. It is approved to impose and levy Trade Business and 
Professional Tax for the year 2018 by the decision No. 1781 
of 25.10.2017.
The remittances of these taxes shall be completed on or 
before 31st March 2018. In addition, a charge at ten percent 
(10%) for fire prevention will be recovered and together with 
these charges V AT and stamp fees will also be recovered. 
 Municipal Commissioner, 
 Kandy Municipal Council. 
 
Municipal office, Kandy,
On  25th October, 2017.
The following taxes should be levied from the 
miscellaneous materials coming under Section 247 ‘A’ and 
‘B’.
 Annual value Amount
  Rs. cts.
upto Rs. 5,000 1,200  0
Rs. 5,001 to Rs. 7,500 1,650  0
Rs. 7,501 to Rs. 10,000 2,200  0
Rs. 10,001 to Rs. 12,000 2,750  0
Rs. 12,001 to Rs. 15,000 3,300  0
Rs. 15,001 to Rs. 25,000 3,850  0 
Rs. 25,001 to Rs. 35,000 4,400  0 
Rs. 35,001 to Rs. 50,000 4,900  0
More than Rs. 50,000  5,000  0
In addition to the above taxes and licence charges it is 
decided to impose and levy 10% of respective taxes and 
licence charges as a fire protection charge and to levy taxes 
or charges imposed by the government from time same. 
Annual license charges for hawking :
   Rs.cts. 
 01. Selling by hand 1,000  0
 02. By a hand pushing carts  1,000  0
 03. By a bicycle  1,000  0
 04. By a tricycle  1,500  0
 05. By a three wheelers 5,000  0
06. By a lorry or a van  5,000  0
In addition to the above taxes and licence charges, it is 
decided to impose and levy 10% of respective taxes and 
licence charges as a fire protection charge and to levy taxes 
or charges imposed by the Government from time to time 
for same. 
Imposing of Trade Business and Professional Tax in terms 
of Section 247(C)

<!-- page 188 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1832
Levy of taxes during the year 2017 on receipts 
(turnover) under section 247 "C" from the following 
businesses should be as per the tables given below :–
 01. Commission Agents. 
 02. Money lenders.
 03. Brokers.
 04. Financial investors. 
 05. To maintain a consulting service Bureau. 
 06. Auctioneers. 
 07. Cashing local cheques, foreign currency, travelers 
cheques and promissory notes.
 08. Maintaining of an Audit office of Accounts. 
receipts from the business for the y ear 2018 : 
 Rs. cts.
 01. Not exceeding Rs. 6,000 Non payable 
 02. exceeding Rs. 6,000 and  90 0
  below Rs. 12,000
 03. exceeding Rs. 12,000 and  180 0
  below Rs. 18,750
 04. exceeding Rs. 18,750 and  360 0
  below Rs. 75,000
 05. exceeding Rs. 75,000 and below  1,200 0
  Rs. 150,000
 06. When exceeding Rs. 150,000  3,000 0
In addition to the above taxes and license charges, it is 
decided to impose and levy 10% of respective taxes and 
license charges as a fire protection charge and to levy taxes 
or charges imposed by the Government from time to time for 
above mentioned taxes and licence charges. 
11-899/2
–––––––––––––––––
kaNdy   mUNiCipaL   COUNCiL
imposing of industries Tax  – y ear 2018
B y virtue of powers vested in the Kandy Municipal 
Council under Section 247(B) of the Municipal Councils 
ordinance, (Chapter 252) of the legislative enactments of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka and the schedule 
framed under following By-laws, for the activities given in 
the Column I, having granted permission to use such places 
on the basis of the Industries tax decided by this Council, 
for the Industries shown in Column I and in accordance with 
the annual value as shown in the Column II. It is approved to 
impose and levy an Industries Tax for the year 2018 by the 
decision no. 1781 of 25.09.2017. 
The remittances of these taxes shall be completed on or 
before 31
st  March 2018. In addition, a charge at their percent 
(10%) for fire prevention will be recovered, together with 
these charges V AT and stamps fees will also be recovered. 
 Municipal Commissioner, 
 Kandy Municipal Council. 
 
Municipal office, Kandy,
On  25th October, 2017.
SChedule 
trAde licence chArges in terms of section “B”  
 Column I    Column II 
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
 145. Storing scrap iron running a selling point 1,200 1,700 2,200 3,200 3,500 4,500 5,000
 146. hiring of earth -cutting machines 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 147. Conducting a place of exhibiting and selling  1,500 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,500 5,000 
  natural flowers 
 148. Running a furniture shop and/or storing  2,200 3,300 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  furniture
 149. Stock and sale of rexines  1,000 1,500 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500
 150. Selling to polythene bags and polythene 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,500 5,000
 151. Conducting a foot ware shop 1,700 2,000 2,200 3,200 3,500 4,500 5.000
 152. Conducting bicycle repair shop 350 450 600 650 750 800 900
 153. Running a sweep selling stall 2,700 2,800 3,300 3,700 4,000 4,400 5,000

<!-- page 189 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1833
 154. Running a place of clearing custom goods  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 155. Maintenance of a place of hiring private cars 2,200 3,300 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 156. Stocking tyres and tubes and their sale 2,750 3,300 3,850 4,200 4,500 4,700 5,000
 157. to maintain a firewood selling point 400 450 500 550 600 700 800
 158. Storing coir products and their sale 1,000 1,100 1,350 1,600 1,800 2,200 3,000
 159. Selling mattresses 1,200 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,300 4,400
 160. For a place engraving vehicle number plates 500 700 1,000 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,500
 161. For a place of cutting duplicate keys 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 2,000 2,000
 162. Maintaining of silver ware shop 3,300 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 163. Carrying out a vehicle spare parts shop 3,300 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 164. Carrying out a vehicle used spare parts shop 2,700 3,300 3,800 4,200 4,500 4,800 5,000
 165. Place of selling motor cycles and three 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  wheelers
 166. Place of selling motor cycles spare parts 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,200 3,500 3,800 4,400
 167. Place of selling bicycle spare parts 400 600 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,500 2,000
 168. Place of selling antique and antique jewelry 2,200 2,750 3,200 3,500 3,800 4,400 5,000
 169. Place of selling brassware 2,700 3,300 3,800 4,200 4,500 4,750 5,000
 170. Place of selling  aluminium ware 1,100 1,400 1,700 2,200 2,500 2,750 3,300
 171. Place of selling plastic goods 1,100 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,300 4.400
 172. Place of selling books, stationery and 1,600 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 4,400 5,000
  school needs
 173. Place of photo copying and laminating  1,100 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,300 4,400
 174. Place of maintaining IT facilities 1,600 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 4,400 5,000
 175. Place of selling cellular phones 1,400 2,000 2,200 3,000 3,500 4,400 5,000
 176. A Place recording music or going 800 1,000 1,200 1,450 1,650 1,800 3,000
  Compact disc on hire or selling videos or 
  pioing on hire
 177. An establishment selling news papers  1,600 1,900 2,200 3,200 3,500 4,400 5,000
  and magazines
 178. A place where clothes are sold 1,700 2,200 2,750 3,500 3,700 4,400 5,000
 179. A place where finish clothes are sold 1,700 2,200 2,750 3,500 3,700 4,000 5,000
 180. A place where spects and optical 2,200 3,300 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  lenses and sold
 181. For leasing institutions 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 182. For financial institutions  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 183. A place of pawing jewelary 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 184. For a place conducting channel service 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 185. For a place doing video photography or  2,000 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 4,500 5,000
  hiring or video appliances
 186. For place where framing of photographs and  600 850 1,100 1,700 2,000 2,200 3,300
  pictures are done
 187. Stocking of glasses used for house  1,600 2,200 2,700 3,200 3,500 4,400 5,000
  construction and sales 
 188. For a place where watches are repaired 500 800 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000
 189. For a place where weight and measure   350 500 600 650 700 850 1,100
  instruments and repairs
 190. For a place of making rubber seals or  1,100 1,650 1,900 2,200 2,500 3,300 3,500
  plastic name board s or notice boards
 Column I    Column II 
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 190 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1834
 191. A place where cusion works are carried out 1,650 1,900 2,200 2,700 2,900 3,300 4,400
 192. A place where race betting is carried out 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 193. For a Race bookie 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 4,000 4,400
 194. Conducting a studio 1,650 2,200 2,750 3,200 3,500 4,400 5,000
 195. Conducting a place where negatives are 1,100 1,400 2,200 2,700 2,900 3,300 4,400
  developed or are sold
 196. Conducting a place of booking Air tickets 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 197. A place where electricity appliances and 1,500 2,000 2,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  spares are sold
 198. A place where sports goods are sold 1,600 2,200 2,700 3,200 3,500 4,400 5,000
 199. A place where jewelry are sold 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 200. A place where private security services are  1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 5,000
  provided
 201. Carrying out a Foreign employment Agency  4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 202. Carrying out bureau of directing students 2,500 3,300 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  or foreign education
 203. A place selling computers and computer     1,600 2,200 3,300 4,200 4,500 5,000 5,000
   spare parts
 204. A place where shops items are sold 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 205. A Sale point of  bicycles  1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 206. A place where internet facilities are provided 2,200 3,300 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 207. Running a printing establishment computer 1,100 1,400 1,700 2,200 2,500 2,750 3,300
 208. a place supplying needs for functions 1,650 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 3,800 4,400
 209. A place of making memorial plaques 1,650 2,200 2,700 3,300 3,500 3,800 4,400
 210. A place of selling prefabricated doors  2,500 3,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  and windows
 211. A place selling sanitary ware 2,200 3,300 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 212. A place where architectural and plan 2,250 3,300 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  drawings are carried out
 213. A place of recovering telephone fares 3,300 4,400 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 214. A place where religious offerings are sold 1,100 1,700 2,200 2,700 3,000 3,300 4,400
 215. A place where wood engravings are  1,600 2,200 2,600 3,300 3,500 4,400 5,000
  done and sell
 216. A place where handicrafts are done and sell 1,650 1,900   2,200 2,700 2,900 3,300 3,800
 217. A place of selling watches 1,150 1,700 2,200 3,200 3,500 4,400 5,000
 218. A place of selling musical instruments 1,600 2,200 3,300 4,200 4,500 5,000 5,000
 219. A place of repairing footwear 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,250 2,500
 220. Conducting an agency Post office 1,000 1,200 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
 221. A place accepting newspapers and magazines 3,600 4,800 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  advertisements
 222. Selling point of weight and measure  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
  equipment’s 
 223. A centre of training preschool children 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 224. Running an insurance establishment 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 225. Running a Commercial Bank 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 226. A place selling rain gutters and fittings 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000
 227. Selling of school bags and travelling bags 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000
 228. Selling of fancy flowers (Artificial) 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 Column I    Column II 
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 191 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1835
 229. Conducting private nursing schools 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 230. Running a place of buying and selling gems 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 231. Maintaining of a private vehicle park 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  charging fees
 232. A place of repairing cellular phones 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500
 233. A place of selling fancy items (fancy dresses) 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 234. Selling of electrical generators  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 235. Storing of iron and selling 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 236. Storing of imported timber and sale  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 237. An establishment where publicity programmes  3,000 3,500 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  are prepared for electronic media
 238. A place where building implements and spares 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
  are given on hire
 239. A place where electricity is generated by solar 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  power and sale of their instruments
 240. A place where stones, metals and sands are  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  stored and sell 
 241. Store various type of tiles and sell 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 242. A place where facilities are providing for  1,000 1,500 2,000 3,000 4,000 4,500 5,000
  billiard play 
 243. Preparation of propaganda notices by using  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
   digital techniques
 244. A place where umbrellas' are sold 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 245. An office where astrological matters are  500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
  conducted
 246. A place where implements for body building  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  exercises are sold
 247. Conducting music teaching classes  1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
 248. Conducting a private institution where  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  television channels are coordinated  
 249. Conducting a wholesale agency 3,000 3,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 250. Conducting an establishment where building  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  construction contracts are undertaken 
 251. An enterprise that undertakes the cleaning of  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  institutions
 252. A place where private attendance service is 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000
  provided
 253. Conducting training for learner drivers 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 254. An establishment of goods transport services 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 255. Sale point of water pumps spare parts and  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
  accessories
 256. Sale of water pumps 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 257. Providing spaces for telephone/television   5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  transmission posts or maintaining them 
 258. A place where rattan goods are sold 1,000 1,200 1,500 1,700 2,000 2,200 2,500
 259. A place where lubricant oil is sold 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
 260. Conducting a place where machinery 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  is imported
 Column I    Column II 
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 192 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1836
 261. Conducting a place where machinery is hiring  3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 4,750 5,000 5,000
 262. Running a place where cut pieces clothes 1,500 2,000 2,500 2,750 3,000 3,200 3,500
  are sold
 263. Conducting a Western medicine centre  3,000 3,250 3,750 4,000 4,250 4,750 5,000
 264. Conducting an Ayurveda medicine centre  2,500 2,750 3,000 3,250 3,750 4,000 4,250
 265. Carrying out an institution which is doing  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  buying and selling lands 
 266. A place manufacturing handles and  4,000 4,250 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  rolling doors 
 267. A place where goods used for vehicle  2,500 2,750 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
  decorations and stickers are sold
 268. A place where spare parts of three wheelers  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
  are sold
 269. A place where telephone accessories are sold 1,200 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
 270. A place where telephone connections are  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  provided and telephone cards are sold
 271. A place where flavors and sweets ingredients  2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000
  are provided and sold
 272. A place where rubber goods are sold 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 
273.  A place where paper cutting is done 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,250 2,500
 274. A place where book binding is done 1,250 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,250 2,500 2,750
 275. A place where training is given in repairing  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
  cellular phones
 276. A place where computer software is  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  manufactures and their creations
 277. Conducting a private educational institute 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 278. Conducting a hotel training school 3,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 279. A steel furniture's selling point 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500
 280. A place where video/photographs are editing  1,000 1,250 3,000 3,250 3,500 4,000 5,000 
 281. A place of collecting of samples for 1,000 1,250 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
  medical tests
 282. A place where “Pancha Karma” is performed 1,000 1,250 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
 283. A place where raw materials for production of  2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
  brassware are sold
 284. A place where C.C.t.V . camera systems are  5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  arranged and fixed 
 285. A place where brassware is manufactured  1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500
 286. A place where brassware is polished  500 750 1,250 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,500
 287. A place where eastern pots and other 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800 2,000 2,200
  items are sold
 288. A place where porcelain utensils are sold 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 289. Conducting a lapidang for cutting and  1,500 1,750 2,000 2,250 2,500 3,000 3,500
  polishing jewels
 290. A place where jewels are examined 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 291. A place where artificial tooth fixing is 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  carried out
 292. Conducting an eye clinic 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 293. A place where national and international tours 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  are organized 
 294. A place where embroiding dresses are sold 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 5,000
 Column I    Column II 
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 193 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1837
 295. A place where Kandyan ceremonial dress is  1,500 2,500 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000
  rented out or sell
 296. A place where curtain clothes are sold 2,000 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000
 297. A place where rush mats and door mats 
  are sold 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
 298. A place where school bags and travel bags 
  repair  500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 2,000
 299. A place where office equipment's are sold 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 5,000
 300. A place where sewing machines and their 1,000 1,200 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,500 3,000
  spare parts are sold
 301. A place where equipment's required for  2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  preparation of food at bakeries and hotels 
  are sold
 302. A place where electrical generators are hiring 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 303. A place where cameras are sold 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 5,000 5,000
 304. A place where ingredients for preparations of   1,000 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
  sandal wood incense sticks are sold
 305. A place where plastic bottle lids are sold  1,000 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,500 3,000 5,000
306.  A place where various types of threads are sold 500 700 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000
 307. A place where registered vehicles are sold 2,500 2,750 3,000 3,250 3,500 4,500 5,000
 308. A place where un-registered vehicles are sold 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 309. A place where gloves and ear covers are 
  produced 1,500 2,500 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000  5,000
 310. A place where tools and implements for  1,500 2,500 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000  5,000
  repairing of vehicles are sold
 311. A place where bottled drinking water is sold 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000
 312. A place where wind screens are sold 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 313. Taxation of vehicles 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 314. Issuing of fitness certificates 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 315. Cleaning of interior and carpets of vehicles 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 316. Conducting advisory services on construction 3,500  4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
  of houses
 317. Fixing of steam boilers and there repairs 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 318. Selling of information technology implements 3,500  4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 319. Conducting a vehicle yard 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 320. Conducting computer training classes 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 321. Selling of machinery spare parts 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,000 5,000
 322. Selling of electrical equipments 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
 323. Sale of energy implements 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 324. Running a matrimonial services centre 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,500 3,000
 325. Printing on goods 1,000 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,500 2,750 3,000
 326. Sale of spare parts of fridges 2,000 3,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 327. Conducting business through internet 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000
 328. A place producing candles 2,000 2,500 2,750 3,000 3,250 3,500 4,000
 329. A place where five ingredients (Pas Panguwa) 800 900 1,000 1,200 1,300 1,500 2,500
  are packeted
 330.  An institute providing computer games facilities 1,500  2,000 2,500  3,500  4,500  5,000  5,000
 331. A place maintaining a local employment Agency 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000
11-899/3
 Column I    Column II 
 No. Nature of Activity Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual Annual
  value value value value value value value
  up to Rs. 5,001- Rs. 10,001- Rs. 25,001- Rs. 35,001- Rs. 50,001- More than
  Rs. 5,000  Rs. 10,000 Rs. 25,000 Rs. 35,000 Rs. 50,000 Rs. 75,000 Rs. 75,000
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 194 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1838
kaNdy   mUNiCipaL   COUNCiL      
Levy of Vehicle and animal Taxes  - y ear 2018
In terms of Section 4 (Chapter 477) of dogs Registration 
ordinance and under Section 245 (Chapter 252) of the 
Municipal Councils ordinance further amended by the 
Municipal Councils and urban Councils (amendment) Act, 
no. 20 of 1985 of the Municipal Councils (amendment) Act, 
No. 42 of 1979. It has been approved by the  decision No. 
1781 of 25.09..2017, to levy during the year 2018, within 
the Municipal limits the vehicle and animal taxes and 
registration charges depicted in the following Schedule. 
Accordingly, it is hereby notified that following taxes and 
charges will be imposed from 01.01.2018 and this imposing 
of taxes will be valid till re-amendment.
SChedule
 Rs. cts. 
1. each vehicle other than Motor Car,  25  0 
three Wheeler, Motor lorry, 
 Motor bicycle, cart, handcart, 
 Rickshaw, Bicycle and Tricycle 
 For each bicycle or tricycle or bicycle car or 
 bicycle cart or tricycle car or tricycle cart –
 (a) If used for commercial purpose 10  0
 (b) If used for purpose other than business  5  0
  purpose 
 (c) For each cart 20  0
 (d) For each handcart 10  0
 (e) For each rickshaw 7  0
 (f) For each horse, pony or mule 15  0
 (g) For each elephant 50  0
 (h) For every dog or bitch 15  0
 
Children vehicles with wheels not more than 26 diameter, 
wheel barrows, hand carts merely used for commercial 
purposes within a private premises and hand carts not used 
for commercial purposes are exempted form these payments.
These license charges be paid on or before 31
s t March 
2018. 
 Municipal Commissioner, 
 Kandy Municipal Council. 
 
Municipal office, Kandy,
On  25th October, 2017.
11-899/4
kaNdy   mUNiCipaL   COUNCiL      
imposing and Levy of a Tax on Land sale - y ear 2018
In terms of Section 247 “e”(1) of the Municipal Councils 
ordinance (Chapter 252) further amended by the Municipal 
Councils and urban Councils (amendment) Act, no. 20 
of 1985 amended by means of the Municipal Councils 
and urban Councils (amendment) Act, no. 42 of 1979, if 
any land within the Kandy Municipal limits is sold by an 
Auctioneer or a Broker or his servant or sub agent by a 
public auction or in any other manner, it has been approved 
by the decision No. 1781 of 25.09.2017, to levy during the 
year 2017 a tax equivalent to one percent (1%) of amount 
from such land sale. 
Accordingly, it is hereby notified that said seller or 
Auctioneer or Broker or his servant or his agent should pay 
to the Council before 31.12.2018 a tax equivalent to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of said land sale. 
 Municipal Commissioner, 
 Kandy Municipal Council. 
 
Municipal office, Kandy,
On  25th October, 2017.
11-899/5
––––––––––––––––––––
kaNdy   mUNiCipaL   COUNCiL      
imposing of entertainment Tax and Levy of charges for 
issue of public performance Licence - y ear 2018
In terms of provisions of Section 2(1) of the entertainment 
tax ordinance no. 12 of 1946 amended by the entertainment 
tax Act, no. 37 of 1984 Section 3 (Chapter 176) of the 
Public Performance Ordinance, it has been approved by the 
Councils Resolution no. 1781 of 25.09.2017, imposing of 
entertainment taxes and levy of charges for issue of public 
performance licences referred to in the following Schedule 
for the Year 2017 within the Kandy Municipal limits. 
Accordingly it is hereby notified that following taxes and 
charges will be imposed for the year 2017 and this imposing 
of taxes and charges is valid till re-amendment. 
 Municipal Commissioner, 
 Kandy Municipal Council. 
 
Municipal office, Kandy,
On  25th October, 2017.

<!-- page 195 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1839
SChedule 
1. For every magic show, circus show, horse race or 
musical show, carnival, concert competitive games, 
dancing shows, wrestling, swimming shows or every 
activity that money is payable to levy an entertainment 
tax being 25% of face value of admission tickets. 
2. t o levy an to entertainment tax being 7.5% of 
admission ticket value for all cinema shows only. 
3. For every cinema show, magic show, circus show, 
carnival, drama show and other activities that money 
is payable for 2013, it terms of Section 3 of Chapter 
176 of the Public performance Ordinance. To levy 
following charges for a period of such performance 
and to issued a public performance licence for the 
public performance or the purpose concerned. 
4. To pay an entertainment tax of 25% of face value of the 
admission tickets issued for the sports tournaments. 
 1. One day or part thereof  Rs. 1,000
 2. two to five days (2-5) Rs. 3,000
 3. More than 5 days  Rs. 5,000
11-899/6
kaNdy   mUNiCipaL   COUNCiL      
imposing of charges on advertisement - y ear 2018
AS referred to in Part IV (Chapter III) of standard By-laws published and declared in the Gazette Notification of democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri lanka dated 09.08.2002 under para 6(d) of Section 272 (Chapter 252) of the Municipal Councils 
ordinance further amended by the Municipal Councils and urban Councils (amendment) Act, no. 20 of 1985 of the 
Municipal Councils (amendment) Act, no. 42 of 1979. It is hereby notified that the rates given in the following Schedule 
are imposed during the year 2018 as approved by the decision No. 1781 of 25.09.2017 for the notice boards and banners 
displayed within the Kandy Municipal limits. 
 Municipal Commissioner, 
 Kandy Municipal Council. 
 
Municipal office, Kandy,
On  25th October, 2017.
SChedule 
 Detail of Notice Boards Presently Proposed 
  2017 2018
 Serial Detail of Notice Boards Up to 06 months Over 06 months Up to 06 months Over 06 months 
 No.   per square foot per square foot per square foot per square foot
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts.  Rs. cts Rs. cts
 
 01. Advertisement Boards over 
  08 square feet or 
  over 09 square feet :
  With electricity
   only one side 110 0 150 0 110 0 150 0
   both sides 135 0 200 0 135 0 200 0
  Without electricity
   only one side 60 0 150 0 60 0 150 0
   both sides 75 0 200 0 75 0 200 0

<!-- page 196 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1840
 02. less than 08 square feet
  With electricity
   only one side 55 0 100 0 55 0 100 0
   both sides 85 0 150 0 85 0 150 0
  Without electricity
   only one side 45 0 100 0 45 0 100 0
   both sides 55 0 150 0 55 0 150 0
 to display advertisements fixed 
 to a board or another supportive  Prsently Proposed
 thing by a person 2017 2018
 or vehicle 
                 
  Serial  Up to 06 months Over 06 months Up to 06 months Over 06 months 
 No.   per square foot per square foot per square foot per square foot
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts.  Rs. cts Rs. cts   
  08 square feet or less than 08  75 0 100 0 75 0 100 0
 03. square feet 
  More than 08 square feet 150 0 200 0 150 0 200 0
 digital notice Boards Presently Proposed 
  2017 2018
  Serial For the business places   One side Both sides 
  No.     per square foot per square foot
     Rs. cts Rs. cts
 04. less than 6 months   750 0 1,000 0
 more than 6 months   1,000 0 1,500 0
     Presently 2017 Proposed 2018
  Serial For two For 02 For two For 02
  No. Weeks weeks Weeks weeks  to 
   one month  one month
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts.  Rs. cts Rs. cts
 05. Framed Advertisement  less than 08 square feet 80 0 100 0 80 0 100 0
  cutouts to display 08 square feet or 
  only one side more than 08 100 0 150 0 100 0 150 0
   square feet  
 06. Framed Advertisement  less than 08 square feet 100 0 130 0 100 0 130 0
  cutouts to  08 square feet or 130 0 175 0 130 0 175 0
  display both sides more than 08
   square feet      
 07. Banners to display less than 08 square feet 70 0 80 0 70 0 80 0
  one side only 08 square feet or more 100 0 150 0 100 0 150 0 
    than 08 square feet  
 08. Banners to display less than 08 square feet 80 0 100 0 80 0 100 0
  both sides 08 square feet or more 110 0 130 0 110 0 130 0
   than 08 square feet
  Serial Detail of Notice Boards Up to 06 months Over 06 months Up to 06 months Over 06 months 
  No.   per square foot per square foot per square foot per square foot
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts.  Rs. cts Rs. cts
 Detail of Notice Boards Presently 2017 Proposed 2018
 

<!-- page 197 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1841
Thus, following proposals are kindly submitted. 
 1. When granting permission for the displaying of banners, maximum period will be limited for 02 weeks.
 2. If number more than one name board is display of an area of 1/8th or 40 square feet of the frontage of a building, less 
one of two will be exempted from charges and charges will levied for the rest. 
 3. If only one name board is displayed, charges will be levied for the rest leaving above mentioned area of such boards. 
 4. Maximum period for displaying of banners will be for two weeks only and in the case of displaying a banner for one 
day only to levy a sum of Rs. 25 per square foot. A sum of Rs. 50 be levied  for a maximum of 02 days at the rate of  
Rs. 25 per square foot. 
11-899/7
NikaWera Tiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
imposition of the Fees on the base of issuing Licenses 
for the year – 2018
under the by-Laws for conducting an industry
IT is hereby notified to the pubilc that the nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha has tabled the under mentioned Scheduled 
resolution by the decision No. 737 (I) at the meeting held on 
20th September, 2017. 
Accordingly it is further notified that a fee for the year 
2018 will be charged by every license issued from the 
Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabah for conducting an Industry 
within the Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabah limits under any 
By-law.
 
s. A. sAmAn PriyAnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017. 
ReSolutIon  01
With accordance to license issued for the year 2018 
by the nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabah under the By-law 
prepared by them or from a By-law accepted, By virtue of 
powers delegated to every Pradeshiya Sabah in terms of 147 
reads with 149 of Pradeshiya Sabah Act, No. 15 of 1987 it 
is proposed, that a T rade license to be imposed and levied 
for the year 2018 from each Industry mentioned below in 
Column 1 of the Schedule on a license Fee illustrated in 
each Industry as mentioned in Column 11 of the schedule.
If the Industry mentioned in such schedule is a hotel or 
Canteen or lodge registered under the tourism Board, it is 
proposed by the Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabah to impose 
and levy a license fee parallel to the amount less than the 
amount illustrated in the Column 1 or the amount of 1% of 
the Receivables of last year from such hotel or Canteen or 
lodge.
schedule
  Column I  Column II
      Annual valuation of the place
 Serial Nature of the Industry or Business  Opportunity not Opportunity for Opportunity 
 No.  exceeding more than Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Conducting a Bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 198 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1842
 02. Conducting an eating house, Canteen, tea or coffee shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Conducting a barbour Shop 400 0 600 0 800 0
 04. Conducting a place of fish sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Conducting a hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Conducting Meat Sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Conducting a place for dairy and Sale of Milk 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
 08. Conducting an ice factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Conducting a Cool drink Factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Conducting a laundry 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
 11. Conducting a lodge and a Resting Place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
schedule i - u nPleAsAnt trAdes 
  Column I  Column II
      Annual valuation of the place
 Serial Nature of the Industry or Business  Opportunity not Opportunity for Opportunity 
 No.  exceeding more than Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Storing or Cleaning of Graphite 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Fertilizer or Chemical Fertilizer Production or Keeping them for Sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. leather hardening 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Keeping leather for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Production of Maldives Fish  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Production of Rubber or Keeping Sheet Rubber  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Conducting a Veterinary hospital 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Keeping Perishable Food Items or Food Items for Bulk Sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Keeping dry Fish, Salt Fish or Jaadi more than 150Kg.  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. drying, Icing or Making Jaadi by Meat or Fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Production of Coconut Charcoal or timber Charcoal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. drying of tobacco 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Production of Animal Foods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Production of Punnac 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Supply of Animal Flesh or Blood 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Soap Production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Keeping or Curshing Animal Bones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Manufacturing trunks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Keeping new Metal or old Metal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column I  Column II
      Annual valuation of the place
 Serial Nature of the Industry or Business  Opportunity not Opportunity for Opportunity 
 No.  exceeding more than Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 199 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1843
 21. Keeping Metal debris 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Manufacturing Furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Manufacturing Cane Goods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Conducting a Carpenters Factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Production of Syrup or Fruit Juice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Production of Sweets  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27. Soaking of Coconut husks (retting) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28. Manufacturing Brush Varieties (except tooth brushes) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29. Manufacturing tooth Brushes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. t oddy Collection  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31. Vinegar Production  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32. Timber Sawing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33. Manufacturing Paint Inks, Varnish or distemper 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34. Production of Soda 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. thread dying 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36. Production of leather Materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37. t inning of Fruits, Fish and different Foods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 38. Flouring Coffee, Cereal Items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39. Production of Baking Powder 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40. Manufacturing of Gas Mantel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 41. Production of Putty 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 42. Production of Candles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 43. Production of Camphor 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 44. Production of Writing Ink, Seal Ink or Stencil Ink 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 45. Production of Blue on Cloth Washing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 46. Production of lacquer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 47. Production of Perfumes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 48. Production of School Chalks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 49. Manufacturing tires or tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 50. Re-filling of tires 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 51. Tires and Tubes Vulcanizing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 52. Manufacturing of Cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 53. Manufacturing Cement Materials or Asbestos Cement Materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 54. Production of Sand Papers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 55. Manufacturing Plastic Materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 56. Burning Bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 57. Machinery Cloth Weaving 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 58. Production of Acid or Re-Packing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 59. Manufacturing tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 60. Cleaning Sacks which kept such as lime, Flour or any other Material 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 61. Manufacturing Machinery Cement blocks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column I  Column II
      Annual valuation of the place
 Serial Nature of the Industry or Business  opportunity not opportunity for opportunity 
 No.  exceeding more than Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 200 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1844
schedule ii - d Angerous trAdes 
      Annual valuation of the place
 Serial Nature of the Industry or Business  opportunity not opportunity for opportunity 
 No.  exceeding more than Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. excavation or Breaking Granite 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Production of Vegetable Oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 03. Production of Coconut oil  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Production or Storing of Matches Boxes   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Production of Methylated Spirit 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Production of Tea Boxes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Production of Coir or other thread Materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Production of equipment by Coir or other thread Materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Keeping hays 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Storing used Clothes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Jewelleries production or Repairs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Machinery timber Sawing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. excavation of limestone or Calc Gnessis 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Maintaining a Machinery used Factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Keeping empty Sacks or empty Bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Repairing Bicycles or Motor Bicycles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Keeping used Papers or Newspapers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Spray Paintings 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Storage of Fire Materials or Fire Crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Manufacturing Metal Aggregate Industries tools, Machinery  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  t ools equipment 
schedule iii - u nPleAsAnt And dAngerous trAdes 
      Annual valuation of the place
 Serial Nature of the Industry or Business  Opportunity not Opportunity for Opportunity 
 No.  exceeding more than Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Cleaning talc 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 02. Preparation of Cinnamon, Cardamom or thread Materials  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  using Chemical Materials
 03. dry Cleaning or dye Cleaning  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Batik, dye And Printing Clothes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. electro Painting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Production of Oil or Animal Fats 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Burning limestone or Calc-Gnessis 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Manufacturing Fire Materials or Fire Crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 09. Preparation of Cod liver oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Manufacturing Boats 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Charging or Repairing Batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Welding Metal Items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Repairing Motor Vehicles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Servicing Motor Vehicles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Breaking Metal into Pieces by Machinery  500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 201 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1845
 16. Conducting a Foundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Conducting a tin Workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Body construction of Motor Vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Production of Insecticides, Fungal Killers, Pest Killers or Re-filling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Production of Germ Killers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Production of Mosquito Coils 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–672/1
      Annual valuation of the place
 Serial Nature of the Industry or Business  opportunity not opportunity for opportunity 
 No.  exceeding more than Rs. 750 exceeding 
   Rs. 750 but not exceeding Rs. 1,500
    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
NikaWeraTiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
imposition of Trade Tax for the year 2018
IT is hereby notified to the public that the nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha has tabled the under mentioned scheduled 
resolution by the decision No. 737(II) at the meeting held on 
20th September, 2017.
Accordingly it is further notified that a fee for the year 
2018 will be charged by every license issued from the 
Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha for conducting an industry 
within the Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha limits under any 
By-law.
 
s. A. sAmAn PriyAnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
IMPoSItIon oF tRAde tAx
By virtue of powers delegated to Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha in terms of Sub-section 1 of Chapter 152 that a license 
should be taken under the same Act or provisions of the By-
laws prepared under this Act from each person who conducts 
any trade mentioned in Column I of the Schedule I or with 
accordance to income on year on 2018 for any subject 
illustrated in Column II for any Industrial Tax not needed 
to be taken on any Trade not conducting as a Profession 
under Chapter 150 of the Act, it is proposed that trade tax 
to be imposed and levied before 30th April, 2018 as per 
the rates exists beyond the limits for year 2018 within the 
nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha limits. 
 Column I Column II
 Annual Income of the Business Annual tax 
  to be paid
  Rs. cts.
 1. From Rs. 100 up to Rs. 6,000 Nil
 2. From Rs. 6,000 up to Rs. 12,000 90 0
 3. From Rs. 12,000 up to Rs. 18,750 180 0
 4. From Rs. 18,750 up to Rs. 75,000 360 0
 5. From Rs. 75,000 up to Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
 6. exceeding Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
Schedule (ii)
01. Running a timber mill
02. A retail shop
03. Running a photo studio
04. Running a place for letting public speaking system
05. Running a pharmacy
06. For a wholesale shop
07. Storing and selling paints
08. A place for selling motor bikes
09. Running a place for framing pictures
10. A place for storing photocopy machine
11. A place for selling ceramic items
12. A place for selling tyres and tubes
13. Running a cushion workshop
14. A place for storing sewing machines and
   refrigerators for sale
15. selling and storing spare parts of bicycle
16. A record bar for recording songs

<!-- page 202 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1846
17. A place for selling plasticware
18. A place for selling building materials
19. A place for selling aluminium ware
20. Running a book shop
21. Storing and selling spare parts for motor bicycle
22. Running a place for selling spectacles
23 Running a grocery
24. A place for selling electronic equipment
25. Selling mobile phones and spare parts
26. Selling spare parts of motor vehicles
27. A place for buying coconut
28. Running an ayurvedic laboratory
29. Selling ornamental plants
30. Selling textiles and readymade garments
31. Running a communication
32. A place for making advertisements
33. Running a beauty center
34. A paddy mill (with or without compound)
35. A place for repairing electric equipment
36. A place for training juki machines
37. A place for converting iron into nickel
38. Manufacturing and selling sport equipment
39. Running a place for selling batteries
40. Running a fibre workshop
41. Running a place for selling funeral items
42. Running a ceremony hall
43. Running a place for manufacturing and selling 
computer software
44. Insurance Agents
45. Private transport suppliers
46. Private tuition conductors
47. Pawn brokers
48. Contractors
49. Foreign liquor sellers
50. Commission Agents
51. Notary publics, surveyors, doctors
52. Private bus owners
53. driving school owners
54. hired vehicles owners
55. lottery Agents
56. Money investors
57. employment Agents
58. Suppliers
59. Private property sales company owners
60. Garment factory owners
61. Vehicle exhibition owners
62. Metal crusher owners
63. Supplying ceremonial items
64. t elecommunication offices and towers
65. Storing petroleum
66. supplying hired vehicles services
67. places of sand mining
68. Cinema halls
69. Centers of supplying Specialist (doctors)
70. Agencies of selling newspapers
71. Private preschools charging fees
72. international Schools Charging fees
73. Financial institutes
74. Foreign employment agencies
75. Providing legal services
76. Auditors
77. housing plan designers and estimate makers
78. Business owners of selling gravel
79. Running a welding workshop.
11-672/2
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
NikaWera Tiya  pradeshiya  sabha 
imposition of industrial Tax
By virtue of powers vested to nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub-section (1) of Chapter 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 15 of 1987, it  is hereby notified to the public that the nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha has tabled under mentioned 
Schedule resolution by the decision No. 737(III) at the meeting held on 20th September 2017. 
 
s. A. sAmAn PriyAnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.

<!-- page 203 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1847
IMPoSItIon oF InduStRIAl tAx 
By virtue of powers delegated to nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Sub-section 1 of Chapter 150 it is 
proposed, that an Industrial Tax to be imposed and levied for year 2018 from industries within the Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha limits mentioned in Column I of the Schedule on behalf of each industry as mentioned in Column II of the Schedule 
and any person under such Industrial Tax should be paid before 30th April, 2018, to the Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha. 
schedule
industriAl tAx
  Column I  Column II
    Annual valuation of the premises
     From Rs. 1 up From Rs. 751  Opportunity
 Serial  Industries to Rs. 750  up to Rs. 1,500 exceeding 
 No.    Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs.   cts. Rs.   cts.
 01. Conducting an industry on preparation of coconut husk  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  into pieces
 02. Conducting an industry on plumbing system and  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  electric technical services
 03. Conducting an industry on production of cool drinks  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Conducting an industry on production of exercise books 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 05. Conducting an industry for sale and production of water tanks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 06. Conducting an industry for sale and production of water bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 07. Conducting an industry on production of electrical equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 08. Conducting an industry on production of bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–672/3
NikaWeraTiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
imposition of assessment Tax for year 2018
IT is hereby notified to the public that the nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha has tabled the under mentioned scheduled 
resolution by the decision no. 737 (IV) at the Meeting held 
on 20th September, 2017.
Also it is further notified that the imposed Assessment 
Tax for year 2018 should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha 
office before 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 
31st december on similar instalments within these four 
quarters.
If it is paid the full Assessment Tax for year 2018 before 
31st January 2018 to the Pradeshiya Sabha a discount of 
10% from the full Assessment Tax and for the relevant Taxes 
related to each quarter is paid before the end of first month 
of each quarter a discount of 5% will be given to the payers. 
 
s. A. sAmAn Priy AnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
ReSolutIon 04
To accept the annual valuation of the year 2018 on all 
houses, buildings, lands and tenements within the area limit 
for year 2018 with accordance to powers delegated to the 
Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha by virtue of the Section 1 
of the Chapter 146 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, no. 15 of 
1987 and,
With accordance to the powers vested in terms of Chapter 
134 (1) of such Pradeshiya Sabha act it is proposed to impose 
and to collect an Assessment Tax of 5% from the Annual 

<!-- page 204 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1848
Valuation of year 2018 and,
Also be order to every person who belongs to pay Assessment 
Tax should be paid to the Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha 
according to the provisions on 134 (6) within the period 
of ending 31st March, 30th June, 30th September & 31st 
december by 04 similar quarterly installments.
11-672/4
–––––––––––––––
NikaWera Tiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
imposition of Land acre Tax for the y ear - 2018
IT is hereby notified to the pubilc that the nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha has tabled the under mentioned Scheduled 
resolution by the decision 737(V) at the meeting held on 
20th September, 2017. 
With accordance to the Chapter 134 (3) of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, reading with paragraph (a) of 
2nd version of Sub-section (1) of the Provincial Council 
(consequential provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, it is further 
notified that the approval has been granted by the hon. 
Minister of local Government to impose land Acre tax 
and such land Acre Tax for year 2017 should be paid to 
the Pradeshiya Sabha office within the period ending 31st 
March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st december on 
similar quarterly installments. 
If it is paid, the full land Acre Tax for the year 2018 before 
31st January 2018, a discount of 10% from the full land Acre 
Tax and for the relevant taxes related to each quarter is paid 
before the end of first month of each quarter a discount of 
5% will be given to the payers. 
 
s. A. sAmAn PriyAnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
ReSolutIon  05
to accept the verification compellable on year 1990 
for year 2018 with accordance to powers delegated to the 
nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 1 of the Chapter 
146 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. 
With accordance to the powers vested in terms of Chapter 
134(3) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, no. 15 of 1987, lands 
situated within the Nikaweratiya Pradeshyia Sabha under 
the Chapter 135 of the above mentioned Act for every 
permanent or constantly under farming not exempted from 
acre tax ; or 
 (a) t o collect by imposing an Annual land Acre tax on 
year 2018, for five hectares or more than that at the 
rate of  Rs. 10 on each hectares. 
 (b) t o collect by imposing an Annual land Acre tax 
at the rate of Rs. 50 on year 2018 for the lands 
more than one hectare but less than Five hectares 
under the By-law of Chapter 134 (3) of the above 
Act according to the publication of Section IV(A) 
of the Gazette notification of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka that the hon. Minister of 
local Government has approved the nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha limits as special area ; and 
 (c) It is proposed according to the provisions of Chapter 
134 (6) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act relevant tax for year 
2018 to be paid to the Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha 
before 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 
31st december by 04 similar quarterly installments. 
11–672/5
––––––––––––––––––––
NikaWera Tiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
imposition  of  Vehicle  and  animal  tax for the year 
2018 
WIth accordance to the powers delegated to Nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha it is hereby notified to the public that 
according to the version 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act which 
reads with 148 of such Act has tabled the under mentioned 
scheduled Resolution by the decision Nos. 737 (VI) at the 
meeting held on 20th September 2017.
 s. A. sAmAn PriyAnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.

<!-- page 205 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1849
IMPoSItIon  oF  VehICle  And  AnIMAl  tAx
It is proposed by virtue of the powers delegated to the 
nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Chapter 148 and 
the Fourth Schedule reading with Chapter 147 of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, a tax to be imposed and levied 
for the year 2018 from the owners within the Nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya limits keeps any Vehicle or Animal as specified 
by the schedule below as per the rates illustrated in the 
Column II of the same schedule.
schedule
 Column I Column II
  Rs. cts. 
 (i) All bicycles or tricycles
  (a) If used for commercial purpose 18  0
  (b) If used for non commercial purpose 4  0
 (ii) For every bullock cart 20  0
 (iii) For every manual cart 10  0
 (iv) For every horse, pony or camel 15  0
 (v) For every elephant 50  0
 (vi) For every rickshaw 7 50
 (vii) every vehicle other than motor car, motor  25  0
  tricycle, motor lorry, motor bicycle, cart, 
  rickshaw, bicycle or tricycle
11–672/6
––––––––––––––––––––
NikaWeraTiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
imposition of entertainment Tax for the year - 2018
IT is hereby notified that under mentioned resolutions nos. 
737(VII) were tabled on 20th September, 2017 at the meeting 
held at Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 s. A. sAmAn Priy AnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
IMPoSItIon  oF  enteRtAInMent  tAx
With accordance to the provisions mentioned in 
entertainment tax ordinance that any entertainment 
activity clarified in the ordinance conducted within the 
administration limits of the Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha 
area, to be charged 10% tax and within the first two years of 
the implementation of this resolution, to reduce the tax fee 
paid to view a film by 7.5% and it was tabled at the 22nd 
September 2009 and for such resolution the Secretary of the 
Chief Ministry of the north Western Province by his letter 
no. nWP/CMS/e08/64 dated 31.10.2011 informed that the 
approval has been granted by the hon. Chief Minister and by 
that it is proposed to publish this approval in the Gazette of 
the democratic Socialist Repubilc of Sri lanka and after the 
notification of such tax to be levied through the nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 s. A. sAmAn Priy AnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
11–672/7
––––––––––––––––––––
NikaWeraTiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
by-laws on propaganda advertisements and Visible 
environment
IT  is hereby notified that undermentioned Resolutions 
No. 737(VIII) were tabled on 20th Setpember, 2017 at the 
Meeting held at nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
 
s. A. sAmAn Priy AnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
by-laws on propaganda advertisements and Visible 
environment
With accordance to the published By-law of section 39 
through the section IV(a) of the Special Gazette Notifications 
no. 520/7 dated 23rd August, 1988 prepared by the hon. 
Minister of local Government, since tabled with one voice 
on 26th August, 2008 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha on the 
virtue of the powers delegated through the Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 15 of 1987 and the versions of 22 (4) and 122-126 as 
published in the Gazette notification dated 07th november, 
2008, it is proposed to accept and implement to charge the 
Fee mentioned in below Schedule related to Propaganda 

<!-- page 206 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1850
Advertisemen ts, Paste of Banners, Constructions and 
exhibits within the nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
SChedule
 Column I Column II
 Particulars Fee Charged
  Rs. Cts.
 1. For Permanent propaganda  60.00 Per square feet
  advertisement exhibits 
  through  Wall or Parapet, 
  Plank Board or Stand
  (Should be paid on every year)
 2. Banner exhibits for a period   30.00 Per square feet 
more than one month and 
  below three months
 3. Banner exhibits for a period  20.00 Per square feet
  of one month and below that
 4. Cutouts for the Period more  40.00 Per square feet
  than 03 months  
 5. Cutouts for the Period less  30.00 Per square feet
  than 03 months
 6. Premises at the Nikaweratiya  25.00 Per square feet  
town belongs to Sabha 
  Temporarily given per day to 
  conduct Stalls, Open Air  
  exhibitions Per day 
 7. 10% tax from every ticket sold  
  on Films, donate Films, Magic, 
  Circuses, dancing Shows and 
  Musical Shows should be paid
 8. Public Performance license Fee  500.00
  per day  
11-672/8
NikaWeraTiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
service Fees to be charged for the year - 2018
IT  is hereby notified that under mentioned Service Fees 
for year 2018 to be imposed and levied from 01.01.2018 
till the revision was tabled by Resolution No. 737(IX) on 
20th September 2017 at the Meeting held at nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
 
s. A. sAmAn PriyAnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
ChARGInG  FeeS  FoR  SeRVICeS
It is proposed to charge the Fees for services supplied 
by the Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha from 01.01.2018 to 
31.12.2018 as under mentioned.
SChedule
 Column I Column II
  Rs. cts.
 1. environmental Application Fee 100 0
 2. environmental Fee According to 
   Valuation
 3. license Renewal Fee 50 0
 4. environmental license Fee 1,250 0
 5. Processing Fee for every   According to 
  Building Constructions square feet
  
 Extent Houses Business
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
  up to square feet 2000 500 0 750 0
  exceeding 2000 sq. ft. by  100 0 200 0
  every 100 sq. ft.
 6. For newly constructed Walls per sq. ft. 2 0 4 0
 7. Fees on Street lines and non vesting       600 0
  Certificate 
 8. Street line Inspection Fee 500 0
 9. Building Application Fee 500 0
 10. Building Application Fee  500 0
  Inspection Fee
 11. Business Application and valid 
  period extended up to maximum of 
  03 years.
 Period Houses Business
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01st year 100 0 200 0
 02nd year 200 0 300 0
 03rd year 300 0 400 0
 12. Charging Fines for unauthorized buildings in Sabha   
  limits.
 (i) Processing fee for sq. ft. doubles for Walls
 (ii) Fee to be out of urban development Authority 
covering approval for unauthorized buildings.

<!-- page 207 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1851
 Particulars Residential Trading 
 (For each square meter) Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 (i) When foundation completed 25 0 25 0
 (ii) up to Roof level 40 0 50 0
 (iii) When constructed with the  60 0 100 0
  roof
 (iv) When work fully completed 100 0 150 0
 13. Fees for issuing a 
  confirmation of certificate 1,000 0 2,000 0
 14. Fees Charging for stalls of 
  Weekly Fair 
   (i) For stalls of 08ft. x 06 ft. 200 0
   (ii) For open space 08ft. x 06 ft. 150 0
Other Fees of Pradeshiya Sabha :
    Rs. cts.
 library Member Fee elders 75 0
  Children 50 0
 Tender Fines per day 10% 
 Fees for library Applications  Rs. 15 0
 Fees for change name in   Rs. 30 0
   Valuation Register
 15. Charge on fees for the Plan of land lots or sub divide  :
 Extent Development  Sub  Service 
  Plan Divide Charges
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
less than 01 hectare 250 0 250 0 750 0
   (for one  
   work) 
01 - 02 hectare 350 0 350 0 do.
02 - 04 hectares 500 0 500 0 do.
More than 04 hectares 750 0 750 0 do.
 16. Transformers constructed before the approval of 
Pradeshiya Sabha limits Fines will be charged on the 
base of Pier capacity cubic meter x 200.00.
11-672/9
NikaWeraTiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
by-law for parking Vehicles within the Nikaweratiya 
pradeshiya sabha Limits - 2018
IT  is hereby notified that undermentioned Resolution no. 
737(x) were tabled on 20th September, 2017 at the Meeting 
held at Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
 
s. A. sAmAn PriyAnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
by-law for parking Vehicles within the 
Nikaweratiya pradeshiya sabha Limits
With accordance to the published By-law in the 
Section IV (A) of the Gazette notification no. 1663 dated 
16.07.2010 for parking vehicles within the Nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha limits which was prepared by the hon. 
Minister of local Government tabled at the nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 18.01.2011 and published 
in the Section IV  (a) of the Special Gazette notification no. 
1703/18 dated 28.04.2011 to implement such By-law within 
the nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha limits and acceptance 
to charge such Fee published in the Section IV(a) Gazette 
notification no. 1785 dated 16.11.2012, it is proposed to 
charge the fees according to the By-law as mentioned in 
below Schedule.
SChedule
 Column I Column II Column III
  Payment  Parking 
  made Fee
  for once per day
  Annual Fee
  Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. For every Passenger Bus 1000 0 40 0
  For every Three Wheel 900 0 15 0
  Vehicles other than Passenger  900 0 25 0
  Buses/Three Wheels
 02. 10% discount will be given if these payments for full 
month be paid on Commencement of the month.

<!-- page 208 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1852
 03. Without acceptance of rental travels if any vehicle parked in the Pradeshiya Sabha premises for more than one hour an 
amount of Rs. 15.00 are charged by such vehicle.
 11-672/10
–––––––––––––––––––
NikaWera Tiya  pradeshiya  sabha 
by-Law related on itinerant business
IT is hereby notified that under mentioned resolutions no. 737(xI) were tabled on 20th September, 2017 at the meeting held 
at Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 s. A. sAmAn PriyAnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
BY-lAW  RelAted  on  ItIneRAnt  BuSIneSS
With accordance to the by-law related on Itinerant Business published in the Section (IV) A of Gazette notification 
no. 1,663 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka dated 16th July, 2010, it is proposed to accept the by-law 
affirmed by the north Western Provincial Council Meeting held on 18th January, 2011 which prepared by the hon. Minister 
of north Western Province subjected to local Government published in the Section (IV)A of the Special Gazette notification 
no. 1703/18 dated 28th April 2011 to implement such By-law within the nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha limits and 
acceptance to charge such fee published in the Section (IV)A Gazette notification no. 1785 dated 16.11.2012, it is proposed 
to charge the fees for the year 2018 according to the By-law. 
schedule
  Column I  Column II
  Matter of Authority should be given   Annual valuation of the premises
     From Rs. 1 up From Rs. 751 up Opportunities
 Serial   to Rs. 750  to Rs. 1,500 exceeding 
 No. Industries   Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 01. Sale of king coconut, young coconut 200 0 400 0 600 0
 02. Sale of gram, wade, macaroni and bites packets 200 0 400 0 600 0
 03. Sale of electrical equipment 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 04. Sale of mushrooms 200 0 400 0 600 0
 05. Sale of clothes 300 0 500 0 800 0
 06. Sale of shoes 300 0 500 0 750 0
 07. Sale of shopping goods 300 0 500 0 750 0
 08. Sale of flower plants, vegetable plants and fruit plants 250 0 500 0 750 0
 09. Sale of books and newspapers 300 0 500 0 750 0
 10. Supply of building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Sale of packed cereals 300 0 500 0  750 0
 12. Sale of vegetable and fruits 200 0 400 0 600 0 
 13. Sale of artificial flowers 300 0 500 0 750 0

<!-- page 209 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1853
 14. Mobile Bank services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Sale of wicks, jas-sticks with offering materials 200 0 400 0 600 0
 16. lottery sales 200 0 400 0 600 0
 17. Sale of watches 250 0 500 0 750 0
11–672/11
  Column I  Column II
  Matter of Authority should be given   Annual valuation of the premises
     From Rs. 1 up From Rs. 751 up Opportunities
 Serial   to Rs. 750  to Rs. 1,500 exceeding 
 No. Industries   Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
NikaWeraTiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
Charging Fees on the base of Land sales
IT is hereby notified that under mentioned Resolutions        
No. 737(XII) were tabled on 20th September 2017 at the 
meeting held at Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha. 
 s. A. sAmAn PriyAnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
undeR the VeRSIon oF 154 oF PRAdeShIYA 
SABhA ACt, no. 15 OF 1987 
fees to Be chArged on the BAse of lAnd sAles
IT  is proposed according to the decision taken to impose 
a tax for year 2018, for a land sale situated within the 
Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha, sold on a public auction or 
an otherwise on a different way by an auctioneer or a broker 
that a percentage of 1% from the amount received from such 
sale should be charged on the base of land sales before the 
end of the year of relevant sale. 
11–672/12
––––––––––––––––
NikaWeraTiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
imposition of Tax on Lands not developed for 
the year - 2018
IT is hereby notified to the public that the nikaweratiya 
Pradeshiya Sabha has tabled the under mentioned Scheduled 
resolution by the decision No. 737(XIII) at the meeting held 
on 20th September 2017. 
It is further notified that the tax imposed on lands on 
lands not developed for year 2018, should be paid to the 
Pradeshiya Sabha before 30th April of relevant year. 
 
s. A. sAmAn PriyAnthA,
 Secretary,
 Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At the office of nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
On this day of 20th September, 2017.
ReSolutIon 
With accordance to the powers delegated to the 
nikaweratiya Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 1 of the Chapter 
153 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to construct 
buildings within Pradeshiya Sabha limits or permanent or an 
otherwise suitable land under constant farming. 
 (a)  If any building not been constructed ; or 
 (b) If that land not been under permanent cultivation ; 
  or
 (c) If the actual land belongs to such buildings 
constructed in the land and the ratio between the 
full extent of the land is less than (20). 
Such land to be treated as land not developed and on 
the base of such lands treated as lands not developed it is 
proposed to be ordered by the Nikaweratiya Pradeshiya 
Sabha to impose and levy an annual tax on such lands not 
developed for year 2018 by a percentage of 1% from capital 
value of each land, premises.
11–672/13

<!-- page 210 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1854
kaLUTara UrbaN COUNCiL
imposing assessment Tax for the y ear - 2018
By  virtue of powers vested in the Kalutara urban Council. it is hereby notified that the following Assessment tax 
imposed for the year 2018, was adopted by me, Geethani d.lokuwella as the Secretary and the officer vested with 
power to execute duties and tasks of Kalutara urban Council, by the vested in terms of section 160(1) to be read with 
section 184(A) of urban Council Act, no. 61 of 1939. By virtue of powers vested in the Kalutara urban Council for 
t h e  y e a r  2 0 1 8   b y  S u b - s e c t i o n  2 3 8  ( 1 )  o f  M u n i c i p a l  C o u n c i l  A c t  t o  b e  r e a d  w i t h  S e c t i o n  1 6 6  o f  ur b a n  C o u n c i l  A c t ,                                                                                                                    
no. 61 of 1939 that all houses, buildings, lands and tenements situated within the limits of the Kalutara urban Council, 
accepts the assessments made for the year 2017, for the year 2018, and in terms of the powers vested by Section 161 to be 
read with section 184(A) of urban Council Act, no. 61 of 1939 to levy an Assessment tax of three percent (3%) in respect 
of residential place and fallow fields . and fifteen percent tax (15%) in respect of business and commercial places 
It is further notified that the assessment tax imposed for the year 2018, should be paid to the urban Council Fund in four 
equal installments mentioned in the schedule in below before the specified date and the Kalutara urban Council proposes 
to accept that if the assessment tax is for the year 2018  paid in full before 31st of January 2018, a discount of Ten percent 
(10%) will be paid from the relevant assessment tax and when assessment tax is paid in quarterly, if the tax is paid before 
the final date of the first month of the quarter, a discount of Five percent (5%) will be paid from the relevant assessment tax.
the SChedule 
 Quarter Date to be paid Last date to be paid for
   5% tax
First Quarter on or before 31st day of March, 2018 29th day of January, 2018
Second Quarter            On or before 30th day of June, 2018 29th day of April, 2018
Third Quarter               On or before 30th day of September, 2018 29th day of July, 2018
Fourth Quarter             on or before 31st day of december, 2018 31st day of october, 2018
                                                                   
geethAni d.loKuwellA,
                                Secretary and the officer vested with power to 
                           execute duties and tasks of the 
 urban Council 
                                                                  Kalutara urban Council.
At Kalutara urban Council,
On this 16th October, 2017.
11-769/1
UrbaN COUNCiL, kaLUT ara
imposition of business Taxes for year - 2018
imposition of business Taxes
By  virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 165 (b) to be read with Section 184(a) of urban Council ordinance             
no. 61 of 1939, I. Geethani lokuwella, Secretary and the officere exercising and executing powers of the council, do hereby 
determine that the imposition of Business taxes for the area of urban Council for year 2018 should be in the following 
manner.

<!-- page 211 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1855
UrbaN  COUNCiL   kaLUTara
imposition of industrial Taxes for year 2018
Imposition of Industrial Taxes
By  virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 165 (a) to be read with Section 184(a) of urban Council ordinance              
no. 61 of 1939, I. Geethani lokuwella, Secretary and the officere exercising and executing powers of the council, do hereby 
determine that the imposition of industrial taxes for the area of urban Council for year 2018 should be in the following 
manner.
Accordingly by virtue of the powersvested in me under section 165(a)1 to be read with section 184(a) of the 
urban Councils ordinance no. 61 of 1939, I do hereby determine that an Industrial tax depicted in the corresponding note 
in column II  of following schedule shall be prescribed for year 2018 in respect of every industry maintained at a certain 
premises within the area of Kalutara urban Council and depicted in the Column I of the following Schedule.
 geethAni d. loKuwellA,
 Secretary and the officer exercising and 
 executing powers of the Council,
 urban Council, Kalutara.
urban Council Kalutara,
07th October, 2016.
By virtue of the powersvested in me under sub section 164 to be read with section 184(a) of the urban Councils 
Ordinance No. 61 of 1939, I do hereby determine that a Business Tax in accordance with the amount shown in the 
corresponding note in the column II of the schedule below shall be imposed  as per provisions in section 165 (b) of the said 
ordinancefor year 2018 from any person ,who maintains a business within the area of Kalutara urban Council in year 2018, 
for which it is not required to obtain a license under the said Ordinance or a certain by law made under the same or it is not 
required to pay  a certain tax under section 165 (b)  of the said Ordinance, at the instances where the receiving of the year 
2017 of said business is within the limits of a certain subject number shown in column I of the same schedule.
                                                                   
geethAni d.loKuwellA,
                                Secretary and the officer exercising and executing  
 powers of the Council 
                                                                  Kalutara urban Council.
urban Council Kalutara,
07th October, 2017.
Business Tax 2018
Column 1 
Receiving of previous year 
Column 11 
Annual tax for the 
premises
Rs. Cts.
01 When exceeding Rs. 6,000 but not exceeding Rs. 12,000 90 0
02 When exceeding Rs. 12,000 but not exceeding Rs. 18,750 180 0
03 When exceeding Rs. 18,750 but not exceeding Rs. 75,000 360 0
04 When exceeding Rs. 75,000 but not exceeding Rs. 1,00,000 800 0
05 When exceeding Rs. 1,00,000 but not exceeding Rs. 1,50,000 1,200 0
06 When exceeding Rs. 1,50,000 but not exceeding Rs. 2,00,000 2,000 0
07 When exceeding Rs. 2,00,000 3,000 0
11-769/2

<!-- page 212 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1856
11-769/3
SChedule II
Industrial Tax - 2018
Column1 
Nature of the industry
Column 11 
Annual value of the premises
When not 
exceeding 
Rs. 750
Rs.     Cts
When 
exceeding Rs. 
750 but not not 
exceeding 
Rs. 1500
Rs.     Cts
When 
exceeding 
Rs. 1500
Rs.     Cts
01 Maintaining a toys manufactory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02 Maintaininga talcum powder manufactory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03 Maintaininga moulding workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04 Maintaining a Papadama Manufactory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05 Maintaining a handloom factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06 Maintaining a domestic garment industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07 Maintaininga manufactory for ornaments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08 Maintaining an industry for making envelopes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09 Maintaining a tailor’s shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10 Maintaining a smithy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11 Maintaining agrinding mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12 Maintaining a factory for making clay powder 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13 Fabric painting or printing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14 Maintaining  different types of factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15 Maintaining a factory for paper serviets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16 Maintaining a footware factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17 All other industries for  which permits are not needed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
UrbaN COUNCiL, kaLUTara
imposition of taxes and fees for year - 2018
Imposition of fees on license
By  virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 164 to be read with Section 184(a) of urban Council ordinance no. 
61 of 1939, I. Geethani lokuwella, Secretary and the officere exercising and executing powers of the council, do hereby 
determine that the imposition of fees for licenses for the area of urban Council for year 2018 should be in the following 
manner.
Accordingly by virtue of the powers vested in me under section 164 to be read with section 184(a) of the urban 
Councils ordinance no. 61 of 1939, I do hereby determine that a fee of license depicted in the corresponding note in column 
II  of following schedule shall be prescribed for year 2018 in respect of a certain license issued in year 2018 granting 
authority to use a place or premises within the area of Kalutara urban Council for a certain task depicted in the column I of 
the following Schedule and described either in the aforesaid Act or any By-law made under the said Act.

<!-- page 213 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1857
 1. Manufacturing and storing of fertilizers and chemical fertilizers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 2. Maintaining a tannery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 3. Sale of leather 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 4. Animal husbandry (For producing milk, meat,  eggs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 5. Maintaining a studio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 6. Maintaining a veterinary  hospital/clinic  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 7. Storing food items for sale which spoil within a short period  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 8. Storing more than 150kg of dried fish, Salted fish or Jaady,  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 9. Manufacturing or storing  of charcoal from timber and 
  coconut shells  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Maintaining a place for preparation or storing tobacco  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Manufacturing or storing of animal foods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Manufacturing or storing of more than 200 kg. of Punnakku 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Manufacturing of soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Grinding or storing of bones of animals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Storing of new or used metal  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Maintaining a site for storing of metal trash 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Manufacturing or storing of furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Manufacturing of cane furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Maintaining a carpentry  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20.  Manufacturing syrups or fruit drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Manufacturing of confectioneries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Soaking of coconut husks (or soaking them in pits for a longer time) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Manufacturing of different types of brushes ( except tooth brushes) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Manufacturing of tooth Brushes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Collecting of toddy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Manufacturing or storing of vinegar  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27. Maintaining a manual or electric saw mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28. Storing of more than 100 liters of paints, varnish or distemper  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Further in case where the place is an approved hotel  or canteen or a lodge either approved by or registered in 
Ceylon tourist Board, I do hereby determine that the fees of the license shall not exceed 1% from the receipts of the place 
in the year prior to the year, in which the licenses is issued. 
 geethAni d. loKuwellA ,
 Secretary and the officer exercising and 
 executing powers of the Council,
 urban Council, Kalutara.
07th October, 2016.
urban Council Kalutara.
SChedule I
Fee for licenses - 2018
 Column I Column II
 Task to which the permission is granted Value of the premises
Industries which cause nuisances When not  When exceeding When exceeding
  exceeding Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
  Rs. 750 but not
   exceeding
   Rs. 1,500
  Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.

<!-- page 214 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1858
 Column I Column II
 Task to which the permission is granted Value of the premises
Industries which cause nuisances When not  When exceeding When exceeding
  exceeding Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
  Rs. 750 but not
   exceeding
   Rs. 1,500
  Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.
 29. Manufacturing of soda  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. Manufacturing of leather items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31. Manufacturing of Canned fruit, fish or other food items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32. Maintaining a grinding mill for grinding chili, coffee, pulses 
  grains, spices or flour 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33. Manufacturing of candles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34. Manufacturing of camphor 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. Manufacturing of writing ink, printing ink or stencil ink  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36. Manufacturing of bluing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37. Manufacturing of sealing wax 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 38.  Maintaining a site for manufacturing or storing of perfumes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39. Manufacturing of chalk  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40. Storing of more than 50 tyres or tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 41. Refilling of tyres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 42. Maintaining a site for vulcanizing of tyres and tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 43. Storing of more than 1000 kg of cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 44. Manufacturing of cement items or asbestos items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 45.  Manufacturing of plastic items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 46. Maintaining a power loom   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 47. Cleaning and sale of sacks used for packing lime, flour, 
  fertilizers or any other item  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 48. Manufacturing of cement blocks by machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 49. Storing of more than 250 kg of pulses or grain 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  
dangerous industries 
 50. Storing of more than 750 kg of flour, sugar, salt for wholesale trading 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 51. Manufacturing of garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 52. Maintaining a printing shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 53. Maintaining a pen for more than 100 chicken’ 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 54. Maintaining a pen for more than 10 goats, pigs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 55. Storing of tiles or bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 56. Maintenance of a firwood store 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 57. Mining or blasting of granite- manually or by machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 58. Manufacturing of soft drinks or storing more than 100 bottles  500 0 750 0  1,000 0
 59. Manufacturing of ice cream  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 60. Manufacturing or storing of more than 300 liters of coconut oil 500 0 750 0  1,000 0
 61. Manufacturing of boxes of matches or storing of more than 
  100 dozens 500 0  750 0  1,000 0
 62. Manufacturing of items by coconut or other fiber or storing of 
  such items 500 0  750 0  1,000 0
 63. Storing of used garments 500 0  750 0 1,000 0
 64. Manufacturing or repairing of jewelry  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 65. Sawing of timber by machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 215 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1859
 66. Maintaining factories which use machinery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 67. Storing of empty sacks or bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 68. Maintaining a garage for repairing of motorcycles and push cycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 69. Storing of used newspapers or papers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 70. Maintaining a spray painting workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 71. Manufacturing or storing of fireworks or fire crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 72. Storing of more than 50 liters of vegetable oil except coconut oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 73. Storing of frozen fish or meat  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 74. Storing of timber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Business which may cause nuisances or harm
 75. Grinding of cinnamon, cardamom , clove applying chemicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 76. dry-cleaning or dying of fabric 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 77. Fabric painting or printing  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 78. Maintaining a workshop for manufacturing of stainless steel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 79. Burning of lime stones, corrals  or storing of lime’ 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 80. Maintaining a workshop for recharging or repairing of batteries  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 81. Maintenance of a garage for vehicle repairing  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 82. Maintaining a vehicle service station 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 83. Maintaining a moulding workshop  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 84. Maintaining a tinkering workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 85. Maintaining a store for gas cylinders  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 86. Manufacturing or dispensing of indigenous and ayurvedic medicines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 87. Storing of glass items or glass sheets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 88. Maintaining a plastic or fiber related factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 89. Storing of more than 150 kg of tea 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 90. Maintaining a wielding work shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 91. Maintaining a lathe machine work shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 92. Maintaining a site for storing petrol, diesel, oil or any other fuel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 93. Manufacturing or storing of agro-chemical productions 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 94. Repairing or servicing of air conditioners, refrigerators or 
  deep freezers  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 95. Maintaining of an electric workshop or a workshop for 
  manufacturing or center repairing of electrical items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 96. Maintaining a milk freezing center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 Column I Column II
 Task to which the permission is granted Value of the premises
Industries which cause nuisances When not  When exceeding When exceeding
  exceeding Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
  Rs. 750 but not
   exceeding
   Rs. 1,500
  Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.

<!-- page 216 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1860
General Businessess
 97. Maintaining a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 98. Maintaining a cooked rice shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 99. Maintaining tea and coffee shops 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 100. Maintaining an eatery/restaurant  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 101. Maintaining a lodge 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 102. Maintaining an ice factpory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 103. Maintainng a dairy farm/ milk bar  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 104. Maintaining a barber saloon  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 105. Maintaining a fish/ meat  stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 106. Maintaining a hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 107. Maintaining a manufactory of soft drinks/syrups/jam  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 108. Maintaininga a stall for frozen chicken 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 109. Maintaininga funeral service 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11-769/4
UrbaN COUNCiL, kaLUTara
imposition of Taxes for vehicles and animals for the year - 2018
Imposition of Taxes for vehicles and Animals
By  virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 163 (1) to be read with Section 184(a) of urban Council ordinance               
no. 61 of 1939, I, Geethani lokuwella, Secretary and the officere exercising and executing powers of the council, do hereby 
determine that the imposition of taxes for vehicles and Animals for the area of urban Council for the year 2018 should be 
in the following manner.
Accordingly by virtue of the powers vested in Kalutara urban Council under Section 163(1) to be read with Section 
184(a) of urban Council ordinance no. 61 of 1939, I do hereby determine that an annual tax for the animals and vehicles 
shown in the schedule III Schedule of the urban Council ordinance should be imposed for any person, who keeps or intends 
to keep a vehicle or an animal under his/her custody in year 2018 within Kalutara urban Council area and the amount of the 
tax suould be the same amount shown in the said schedule. 
 
geethAni d. loKuwellA,
 Secretary and the officer exercising and 
 executing powers of the Council,
 urban Council, Kalutara.
07th October, 2017,
urban Council Kalutara.
 Column I Column II
 Task to which the permission is granted Value of the premises
Industries which cause nuisances When not  When exceeding When exceeding
  exceeding Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
  Rs. 750 but not
   exceeding
   Rs. 1,500
  Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.

<!-- page 217 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1861
Column1 Column 11 
Type of vehicle or animal Amount of the Fee
Rs.
01 For a motor car, a three wheeled motor vehicle,  a motor lorry, a motorcycle, a cart, 
a push cart, a rickshaw, push bicycle, and any vehicle which is not a  tricycle
25  0
02 For any bicycle or  tricycle or  bicycle car or bicycle cart or tricycle car cart or 
tricycle cart
10  0
03 If it is used for commercial purposes 10  0
04 If it is used for non-commercial purposes 05  0
05 For each cart 20  0
06 For each push cart 10  0
07 For each rickshaw   7 50
08 For each horse, pony, mule 15  0
09 For each elephant 50  0
11-769/5
UrbaN COUNCiL, kaLUTara
imposition of taxes on sale of lands
I, Geethani d. lokuwella, the Secretary of Kalutara urban 
Council, who is exercising and executing the powers of 
Kalutara urban Council, do hereby prescribe as per the 
Section 165(d) of urban Council ordinance no. 61 of 1939 
to be read with Section 184(a) of urban Council ordinance, 
that the determination of taxes on sale of lands within the 
area of Kalutara urban Council for year 2018 shall be in the 
following manner. 
Accordingly by virtue of the powers vested in me under 
Section 165(d) to be read with Section 184(a) of the urban 
Councils ordinance no. 61 of 1939, I do hereby determine 
that if any land situated within the area of Kalutara urban 
Council is sold within the year 2018 in public auction or in 
any other way by an auctioneer, or a broker or his employee 
or sub agent,   a tax equivalent to 1% from the sales value of 
the said land shall be paid to the Council by the auctioneer, 
or broker or his employee or sub agent. 
 
geethAni d. loKuwellA,
 Secretary and the officer 
 exercising and executing 
 powers of the Council
 urban Council, Kalutara.
urban Council Kalutara,
07th October, 2017.
11-769/6
UrbaN COUNCiL, kaLUTara
imposition of tax for advertisement boards
I, Geethani d. lokuwella, the Secretary of  Kalutrara urban 
Council ,who is exercising and executing the powers of  
Kalutara urban Council, do hereby prescribe as per the 
provisions of the By laws on advertisements mentioned 
in the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka no. 1947/7 dated 28.12.2015 to be read 
with Section 184(a) of the urban Councils ordinance no. 61 
of 1939,  that the determination of taxes for advertisements 
within the area of  Kalutara urban Council for year 2018 
shall be in the following manner,until any revision is made 
in this regard in future. 
Accordingly by virtue of the By laws on advertisements 
mentioned in the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri lanka no. 1947/7 dated 28.12.2015 
to be read with Section 184(a) of the urban Councils 
Ordinance No. 61 of 1939, I do hereby determine that the 
annual fee recovered for advertisements  displayed within 
the area of Kalutara urban Council for publicity works 
should be a fee which is effective until it is revised again 
in year 2018 and futher it should be as mentioned  in the 
following Schedule on fees for advertismenet boards.
 
geethAni d. loKuwellA,
 Secretary and the officer 
 exercising and executing 
 powers of the Council
 urban Council, Kalutara.
urban Council Kalutara,
07th October, 2017.
Taxes for Vehicles and Animals -2018

<!-- page 218 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1862
UrbaN COUNCiL, kaLUT ara
recovery of Fees for Crematoriums 
I, Geethani d. lokuwella, the Secretary of  Kalutrara urban 
Council ,who is exercising and executing the powers of  
Kalutara urban Council, do hereby prescribe as per the 
provisions of the By laws on Crematoriums mentioned 
in the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka no. 1947/7 dated 28.12.2015 to be 
read with section 184(a) of the urban Councils ordinance 
No. 61 of 1939,  that  the imposition of fee for cremation of 
a dead body  within the area of  Kalutara urban Council for 
shall be in the following manner from year 2018,until any 
revision is made in theis regard in future. 
Accordingly by virtue of the powers vested by provisions 
of the By laws on Crematoriums mentioned in the Gazette 
extraordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
lanka no. 1947/7 dated 28.12.2015 to be read with section 
184(a) of the urban Councils ordinance no. 61 of 1939, I 
hereby determine that the fees recovered for the issuance 
of a license for cremation of a dead body within the area of 
urban Council, Kalutara should be in the following manner 
for year 2018,until any revision is made in future in this 
regard. 
Nature of the Board Sqm
Charge
Less 
than 
03
Between 03 months up to 
06
For year
01 Advertisements/
notifications displayed on 
a  protection wall or a wall 
of a house
less than 1 250 0 350 0 500 0
More than 1 Rs 200/= per each sqm or a part over 1 sqm
02 Banners made of fabrics or 
digital boards
less than 3 250 0 350 0 500 0
More than 3 Rs 200/= per each sqm or a part over 1 sqm
03 For displaying
advertisements made of 
iron sheets or timber
less than 1 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
More than 1 Rs 300/= per each sqm or a part over 1 sqm
04 For advertisements 
operated by electricity
less than 1 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
More than 1 Rs 300/= per each sqm or a part over 1 sqm
05 For advertisements made 
of polythene or cardboard
less than 1 250 0 350 0 500 0
More than 1 Rs 200/= per each sqm or a part over 1 sqm
06 For advertisements made 
of fiber or plastics
less than 1 250 0 350’00 500 0
More than 1 Rs 200/= per each sqm or a part over 1 sqm
07 For advertisements made 
applying electronic 
equipment
less than 1 750 0 850 0 1,000 0
More than 1 Rs 500/= per each sqm or a part over 1 sqm
11-769/7
 01. For cremation of a dead body of a person resided 
within the area of urban Council, Kalutara-Rs. 5,000
 02. For cremation of a dead body of a person resided 
outside the area of urban Council, Kalutara-Rs. 6,500
 
geethAni d. loKuwellA,
 Secretary and the officer 
 exercising and executing 
 powers of the Council
 urban Council, Kalutara.
07th October, 2017,
urban Council Kalutara.
11-769/8
UrbaN COUNCiL, kaLUT ara
recovery of Fess for parking of Threewheelers
I, Geethani d. lokuwella, the Secretary of  Kalutrara 
urban Council ,who is exercising and executing the 
powers of  Kalutara urban Council, do hereby prescribe 
as per the provisions of the By laws on parking of three 
wheelers published  in the Gazette extraordinary of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka no. 1652/50 

<!-- page 219 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1863
dated 06.05.2010 to be read with section 184(a) of the urban 
Councils ordinance no. 61 of 1939,  that  an annual permit 
should be obtained for parking a three wheeler at a three 
weeler park within the area of urban Council, Kalutara from 
year 2018,until any revision is made in theis regard in future 
and the annual fee should be in the following manner. 
Accordingly by virtue of the provisions of the By laws 
on parking of three wheelers published in the Gazette 
extraordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
lanka no. 1652/50 dated 06.05.2010 to be read with section 
184(a) of the urban Councils ordinance no. 61 of 1939, I 
do hereby determine that the annual fee of Rs.600, which is 
at present recovered for the issuance of an annual permit for 
parking a three wheeler at a three wheeler park within the 
area of urban Council, Kalutara , should be imposed and 
recovered, until it is revised again. 
 
geethAni d. loKuwellA,
 Secretary and the officer 
 exercising and executing 
 powers of the Council,
 urban Council, Kalutara.
07th October, 2017,
urban Council Kalutara.
11-769/9
keLaNiya   pradeshiya   sabha 
imposing of assessment Tax  - 2018
I hereby notified that the following suggestion has been 
passed under no. 2017/4236 of decision Committee of 
Pradeshiya Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 
16th October, 2017. 
 
K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon 
I, K.h. Kapila Kumara, Secretary of Kelaniya Pradeshiya 
Sabha, carrying out the powers of the Kelaniya Pradeshiya 
Sabha and executing duties and functions hereby resolve 
that the Assessment Tax imposing in the Authorized area of 
Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha for 2018 in order to the Section 
134(1) read with the Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, 
No. 15 of 1987 should be as shown below, namely –
I hereby resolved that Assessment/Ownership Tax 
for 2018 as assessed in the previous year for all houses, 
buildings, lands and homes within the Authorized Area of 
the Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha has been passed in order to 
by virtue of powers vested in the Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha 
in order to Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987 and by 
virtue of powers vested in me in term of Sub-section 134(1) 
read with the Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 
of 1987, has been imposed to recover 5% of the annual value 
of said properties on said assessment. 
Further Assessment Tax for 2018 should be paid annual 
assessment Tax as ordered to the fund of Kelaniya Pradeshiya 
Sabha before the date indicated against in each quarter in the 
schedule given below and as so, if the annual assessment Tax 
for 2018 has been paid on or before 31st January, 2018 they 
will receive 10% discount of annual assessment Tax and if 
they pay relevant quarter to the fund of Kelaniya Pradeshiya 
Sabha before the date shown in the third column of the 
schedule, they will receive 5% discount of the amount of 
relevant quarter. 
If relevant assessment tax for 2018 should be not paid 
annual assessment tax as ordered to the Fund of the Kelaniya 
Pradeshiya Sabha before the date indicated against in each 
quarter in the schedule given below. 15% more charges 
for residing properties and 20% charges for non-residing 
properties should be imposed additional to the assessment 
tax.
SChedule
 Quarter date to be paid last date for 
   belonging to 
   5% discount
1st quarter January 1st to March 31st 31.01.2018
2nd quarter April 1st to June 30th 30.04.2018
3rd quarter July 1st to September 30th 31.07.2018
4th quarter october 1st to december 31st 31.10.2018
11–774/1
–––––––––––––––––––
keLaNiya   pradeshiya  sabha
imposing Licence Fee - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed 
under No. 2017/4236 of decision committee of Pradeshiya 

<!-- page 220 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1864
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th  October, 
2017 and also hereby notify that the license fees approved to 
impose should be paid before 31st March, 2018.
 
K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I hereby resolve that the license fee for 2018 imposing in 
the Authorized area of Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha by virtue 
of powers vested in me in order to the Sections 147 and 149 
read with the Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 
1987 should be as shown below, namely -
I hereby resolve to levy an amount of licence fee as 
indicated in the Column II for the relevant any purpose in the 
Column I of the following Schedule, through the enforced 
powers to use any place or any environment within the 
Authorized area of the Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha  in the 
Act or By-law made by under the said Act according to by 
virtue of powers vested in me under Sections 147 and 149 
read with the Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 
of 1987. 
Further, it is hereby imposing 1% of income for 2017 as a 
licence fee for 2018 from a hotel, restaurant lodge approved 
and accepted by the Sri lanka tourist Board, for the purposes 
discribed in the Tourist Board Act, No. 14 of 1968.
first schedule
imPosing licence fees for the unPleAsAnt Businesses under section 149 of PrAdeshiy A sABhAs Act, no. 15 of 1987 
According to the suPPlementAry  By - lAw  of locAl government institutions Act, no. 6 of 1952
PART I
  Column 1  Column II
 Serial Licenced work           Year value  Year value  Year value  
 No.   up to  from Rs. 751 over
   Rs. 750 up to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 
 1. Maintaining a hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 2. Maintaining a canteen 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 3. Maintaining a restaurant  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 4. Maintaining a rice stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 5. Maintaining a tea stall 500 0 500 0 1,000 0
 6. Maintaining a coffee stall 500 0 500 0 1,000 0
 7. Maintaining a resthouse 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 8. Maintaining a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 9. Maintaining a milk bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Maintaining a dairy farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Selling meals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Selling foods made out of flour 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Selling sweets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Selling sherbet and soft drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Selling or postponing fruit 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Selling fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Selling meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Selling, manufacturing ice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Selling manufacturing cool drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Maintaining a laundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 221 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1865
 21. Maintaining a beauty saloon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Maintaining a barber saloon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Selling curd 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Maintaining a cow farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Maintaining a place for providing funeral services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
•	If any hotel, canteen or resthouse registering for activities of tourist development Act, no. 14 of 1968, 1% of income 
of the previous year should be imposed for such hotel, canteen or resthouse.
•	If it is the first year of a hotel, a canteen or a resthouse, license fee should be considered according to the annual value 
of the place.
imPosing licence fees for the dAngerous Businesses According to suPPlementAry  By - lAw  of the locAl 
government institutions  Act, n o. 06 of 1952
P ART II
  Column 1  Column II
 Serial Licenced work           Year value  Year value  Year value  
 No.   up to  from Rs. 751 over
   Rs. 750 up to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 1. Manufacturing or storing fertilizer or chemical fertilizer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 2. conserving skins 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 3. Selling skins 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 4. Breeding animals (for meat, milk, or eggs) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 5. Maintaining a studio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 6. Maintaining a veterinary hospital 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 7. Storing easily spoiled petty kinds of food or food item for selling  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 8. Keeping dried fish, slated fish or jadi more than 150 kilos 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 9. Manufacturing coconut shell coat or wood coal or storing coal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Maintaining a place for storing or preparing tobacco 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Manufacturing animal food or Maintaining a animal food store  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Manufacturing punnac or storing it more than 200 kilos 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Manufacturing soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Grinding or keeping skeletons of animals  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Storing old or new metals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Maintaining a place for storing metal ruined articlels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Manufacturing or storing furnitures 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Manufacturing cane articles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Maintaining a carpantry industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Manufacturing syrups or fruit drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Manufacturing sweet items  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Soaking tuft of coconut (pulpping) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Manufacturing brushes (except tooth brush)  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column 1  Column II
 Serial Licenced work           Year value  Year value  Year value  
 No.   up to  from Rs. 751 over
   Rs. 750 up to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 222 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1866
 24. Manufacturing tooth brushes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Collecting toddy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Manufacturing or storing vinegar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27. Maintaining a place for tearing timber by machine or hand 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28. Selling paints, Varnish or colouring distember storing them 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  more than 100 litres
 29. Manufacturing soda 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. Manufacturing leather items  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31. Canning fruit, fish or other food items  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32. Maintaining a grinding mill for grinding chillies, coffee,   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  grain items, pulses, spices or milk powder
 33. Manufacturing candles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 34. Manufacturing camphors 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. Manufacturing writing ink, printing ink or stencil ink  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 36. Manufacturing blue for cloths  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37. Manufacturing lac 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 38. Maintaining a place for manufacturing or storing perfumes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39. Manufacturing chalks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40. Storing tyre or tubes more than 50 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 41. Refilling tyres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 42. Maintaining a place for vulganizing tyre tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 43. Storing cement more than 1,000 kilos 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 44. Manufacturing cement items or asbestos cement items  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 45. Manufacturing plastic items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 46. Weaving cloth by machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 47. Selling cleaned empty sacks of fertilizer, lime, flour or other items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 48. Manufacturing cement blocks by machine  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 49. Storing grains or pulses more than 250 kilos 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
imPosed licence fees for the dAngerous Businesses According to suPPlementAry  By - lAw  of the locAl government 
institutions Act, n o. 6 of 1952
P ART III
  Column 1  Column II
 Serial Licenced work           Year value  Year value  Year value  
 No.   up to  from Rs. 751 over
   Rs. 750 up to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 1. Storing flour, salt or sugar more than 750 kilos for whole sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 2. Manufacturing ready made garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 3. Maintaining a press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 4. Maintaining a faultry farm with more than 100 hens 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 5. Maintaining a farm with more than 10 pigs or goats 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 6. Storing bricks or tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 7. Maintaining a firewood store 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  Column 1  Column II
 Serial Licenced work           Year value  Year value  Year value  
 No.   up to  from Rs. 751 over
   Rs. 750 up to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 223 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1867
 8. excav ating or crushing stone by machine or hand  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 9. Manufacturing cool drink or storing bottles of cool drink 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  more than 100 bottles
 10. Manufacturing ice cream 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Manufacturing coconut oil or storing more than 300 litres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Manufacturing matches of boxes or storing more than 100 dozens 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Manufacturing or storing articles made of coir or any other fibre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Storing used clothes  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Manufacturing or repairing gold jewelary 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Tearing timber by machine  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Maintaining a blacksmith workshop by machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Storing empty sacks or empty bottles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Maintaining a workshop for repairing motor bicycles or bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Storing used papers or newspapers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Maintaining a place for spraying paints  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Manufacturing or storing fireworks or crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Storing vegetable oil more than 50 litres except coconut oil  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Storing freezed meat or fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Storing timbers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
imPosed licence fees for the unPleAsAnt & d Angerous Businesses According to suPPlementAry  By - lAw  of locAl 
government institutions Act, n o. 6 of 1952
P ART IV
  Column 1  Column II
 Serial Licenced work           Year value  Year value  Year value  
 No.   up to  from Rs. 751 over
   Rs. 750 up to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 
 1. Cutting cloves, cinnamon or cardamoms into fibre pieces  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  using chemical Substances
 2. dry cleaning or colouring 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 3. Printing colthes or clouring 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 4. Maintaining a place for electro plating  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 5. Burning or preparing lime or white lime or storing ash-lime 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 6. Maintaining a place for recharging or repairing batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 7. Maintaining a place for repairing motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 8. Maintaining a place for serving motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 9. Maintaining a welding shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Maintaining a tin workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Maintaining a place for storing gas cylinders 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Manufacturing or compounding ayurvedic medicine,  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  indigenous medicine  
  Column 1  Column II
 Serial Licenced work           Year value  Year value  Year value  
 No.   up to  from Rs. 751 over
   Rs. 750 up to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 224 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1868
 13. Storing glass items and glass sheet  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Maintaining an industry for manufacturing plastic or related to fibre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Storing tea powder more than  150 kilos  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Maintaining a place for welding  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Maintaining a place for using lathe 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Maintaining a place for stroring petrol, diesel, oil, any other 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  kind of mineral oil
 19. Manufacturing or storing agro-chemical substances 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Servicing or repairing air-conditions, refrigerators or defreezer  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Maintaining an electrical workshop or a workshop for 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
  manufacturing or  repairing electrical appliances
 22. Maintaining a centre for cooling milk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11-774/2
keLaNiya   pradeshiya  sabha
imposing industrial Taxes - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed under No. 2017/4236 of decision committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October, 2017. 
I hereby also notify that this Industrial tax should be paid before 31st March, 2018. 
 K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I, K. h. Kapila Kumara, Secretary to Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha, carrying out the powers of the Kelaniya Pradeshiya 
Sabha and executing duties and functions hereby resolve that the industrial tax imposing in the Authorized area of Kelaniya 
Pradeshiya Sabha for 2018 in order to the Section 150(1) read with the Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987 
should be as shown below, namely -
  Column 1  Column II
 Serial Licenced work           Year value  Year value  Year value  
 No.   up to  from Rs. 751 over
   Rs. 750 up to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
 
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 225 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1869
I hereby resolve to levy a amount of industrial taxes as indicated in the column II for the relevant any purpose in the 
column I of the following Schedule, through the enforced powers to use any environment within the Authorized area of the 
Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha by virtue of powers vested in me  under the Section 150 Sub-section (1) read with the Section 
9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987. 
imPosing certAin industriAl Businesses tAxes  under section 150 (1) (2) of PrAdeshiy A sABhA Act, n o. 15 of 1987
schedule 
  Column 1  Column II
 Serial Licenced work           Year value  Year value  Year value  
 No.   up to  from Rs. 751 over
   Rs. 750 up to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
 1. Maintaining a Paddy Mill  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 2. Maintaining a Industry of manufacturing Cotton thread  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 3. Manufacturing or repairing gloves and masks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 4. Manufacturing or repairing boats  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 5. Manufacturing or repairing silencers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 6. Manufacturing cars   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 7. Manufacturing cables   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 8. Manufacturing nails  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 9. Manufacturing exercise books  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 10. Manufacturing pencils, pens, pencil lead point  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 11. Manufacturing rubber goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 12. Manufacturing cardboard boxes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 13. Manufacturing mosqutio nets  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 14. Manufacturing clay goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 15. Manufacturing mashrooms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 16. Manufacturing advertisement board 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 17. Manufacturing papadam   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 18. Manufacturing kinds of chocolates  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 19. Manufacturing kinds of milk powder 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 20. Manufacturing galvanazied goods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 21. Manufacturing incense sticks  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 22. Manufacturing barbared wire  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 23. Manufacturing industry of injector mould  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 24. Manfacturing celotapes   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 25. Manufacturing or repairing footwares 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 26. Cushion workshop   500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 27. Polishing diamonds, gems 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 28. Manufacturing noodles  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 29. Manufacturing or repairing musical instruments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 30. Industry of bottling mineral water  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 31.  A place for repairing clocks  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 32. Manfacturing envelops  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 33. Manfacturing fancy items and toys  500 0 750 0 1,000 0 
 34. Repairing Juki Machine  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 35. Repairing mobile phone   500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 226 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1870
 36. Manfacturing or Repairing aluminium goods  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 37. Industry of manufacturing related to kind of meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 38. Manfacturing Amano sheets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 39. Manfacturing sports goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
 40. Manufacturing stickers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11-774/3
keLaNiya  pradeshiya  sabha 
imposing business Taxes  - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed under no. 2017/4236 of decision Committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October, 2017. 
I, hereby notify that this business taxes should be paid before 31st March, 2018. 
 K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I, K. h. Kapila Kumara, Secretary to Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha, carrying out the powers of the Kelaniya Pradeshiya 
Sabha and executing duties and functions hereby resolve that the business Tax imposing in the jurisdiction area of Kelaniya 
Pradeshiya Sabha for 2018 in order to the Sub-section 152(1) read with the Section 9.3 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 
1987 should be as shown below, namely –
I, hereby resolve to levy a amount of Business Taxes as indicated in the column II for the relevant any purpose in the 
Column I of the third Schedule here, for the Year 2018, from each and every person, who conduct a business within the the 
Authorized area of the Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha, when the annual income for the year 2017 comes within the Schedule 
below and those who do not want to pay any Tax under Section 150 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and do not 
want to obtain any licence under Sub-section (1) of Section 152, the rules of the By-law made under the said Act by virtue 
of the powers vested in the Kelaniyia Pradeshiy a Sabha. 
  Column 1  Column II
 Serial Licenced work           Year value  Year value  Year value  
 No.   up to  from Rs. 751 over
   Rs. 750 up to Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 227 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1871
third schedule
Business  tAxes  imPosing for the yeAr  2018 under section 
152 of the PrAdeshiy A sABhA Act, no. 15 of 1987
 Column I Column II
 Business income for the year  Rs. cts. 
1. Not exceed Rs. 6,000 Nil
2. exceed Rs. 6,001 but not exceed Rs. 12,000 90 0
3. exceed Rs. 12,001 but not exceed Rs. 18,750 180 0
4. exceed Rs. 18,751 but not exceed Rs. 75,000 360 0
5. exceed Rs. 75,001 but not exceed Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
6. exceed Rs.1,50,001 3,000 0
11-774/4
keLaNiya  pradeshiya  sabha 
imposing Undeveloped Land Tax  - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed 
under no. 2017/4236 of decision Committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October, 
2017. 
 
K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I hereby resolve that it is suitable that any land situated 
within the Authorized Area of Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha 
is suitable for constructing building or for daily or duly 
cultivation activities or considering that it is fair on the 
opinion of the Pradeshiya Sabha, in the event of could being 
developed that land for spending such activity and any 
building not be constructed in the land, actually extent of the 
land covered by building would be less percentage than the 
specific percentage of extent of whole the land or in the event 
of not doing daily or duly cultivation in the land to impose 
1% of the investment value of the land from owner of the 
land within the Authorized Area of the Kelaniya Pradeshiya 
Sabha for 2018, in order to virtue of powers in the Kelaniya 
Pradeshiya Sabha under the Section 153 Sub Section (1) of 
Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.
11-774/5
keLaNiya  pradeshiya  sabha 
imposing Tax  on Vehicles and animals – 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed 
under No. 2017/4236 of decision committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October 
2017. 
 
K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I, K. h. Kapila Kumara, Secretary to the Kelaniya 
Pradeshiya Sabha, carrying out the powers of the Kelaniya 
Pradeshiya Sabha and executing duties and functions hereby 
resolve that the vehicles and Animals Tax imposing in the 
Authorized area of Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha for 2018 
in order to the Sections 147 Sub Section (1) (a) and in the 
term of provision of Section 148 read with the Section 9.3 of  
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 should be as shown 
below namely -
schedule 
 Serial Column I Column II
 No.   Rs. cts. 
 01. (i) For each and every vehicle except motor  
   car, motor tricar, motor lorry, motor 
   cycle, cart, gin rickshaw, bicycle or 
   tricycle 25  0
  (ii) For each bicycle or tricycle or bicycle 
   car or cart –
   (a) If using for any business 18  0
   (b) If using for any purpose other than  4  0
       business
  (iii) For each cart 20  0
  (iv) For each hand cart 10  0
  (v) For each rickshaw 7 50
  (vi) For each horse, pony or mule 15  0
  (vii) For each elephant 50  0
* Children’s vehicles, not exceed 26" diameter, 
wheelbarrow, hand carts which are used in private places for 
any business purposes and hand carts which are not used for 
business purposes will be free from the charges. 
* For "business activities" or in any other ways or carrying 
or transporting any goods or any articles or any written 
otherwise printed matters for business otherwise industrial 
will be inserted in this Schedule. 
11–774/6

<!-- page 228 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1872
keLaNiya    pradeshiya  sabha
imposing Charges for Tourist business  - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed 
under no. 2017/4236 of decision Committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October, 
2017.
 K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I, hereby resolve that the charges for 2018 approved by the 
Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha published in the Extraordinary 
Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th december, 2015, mentioned 
in the Schedule 01 of the By-law on business of tourist 
in the institutions of local Governments (Supplementary 
By-laws) Act, no. 6 of 1952 should be imposed as shown 
below.
schedule no. 1
  
 Nature of the Licence  Annual Licence Fee
  Rs.  cts.
Maintaining Business of tourist 1,000 0
11-774/7
keLaNiya   pradeshiya  sabha
imposing Charges for Caremation 
of bodies  - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed 
under no. 2017/4236 of decision Committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October, 
2017.
 
K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I, hereby resolve that the charges for 2018 
approved by the Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha published in 
the Extraordinary Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th december, 
2015, mentioned in the Schedule 01 of the By-law on 
Cremation Room in the institutions of local Governments 
(Supplementary By-laws) Act, no. 6 of 1952 should be 
imposed as shown below. These charges should be imposed 
as related to cremation for 2018 for all cremation rooms 
within the Authorized Area of Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
schedule no. 1
 
  Charges
  Rs. cts.
Within the Authorized Area 5,000 0
Out of the Authorized Area 6,500 0
11-774/8
–––––––––––––––––––––––––
keLaNiya   pradeshiya  sabha
imposing Charges for Using playgrounds  - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed under no. 2017/4236 of decision Committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October, 2017.
 K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.

<!-- page 229 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1873
ReSolutIon
I, hereby resolve that the charges for 2018 approved by the Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha published in the Extraordinary 
Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th december, 2015, mentioned in the Schedule 01 of the By-law on using playgrounds in the 
Institutions of local Governments (Supplementary By-laws) Act, no. 6 of 1952 should be imposed as shown below:
schedule no. 1
chArges for using PlAygrounds
  
   Every Institution and Division Charges           Deposit   Amount
  For Sports For Any Other For Sports For Any other
  Rs.  cts. Purposes Rs.  cts. Purposes
   Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
 01. Private 2,000 0 10,000 0 3,000 0 10,000 0
 02. Government/Schools/Political 1,000 0 5,000 0 3,000 0 5,000 0
 03. Religious Free Free Free Free
 04. Others 2,000 0 10,000 0 3,000 0 10,000 0
  
11-774/9
–––––––––––––––––––
keLaNiya   pradeshiya  sabha
imposing Charges for exhibiting advertisement Notices  - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed under no. 2017/4236 of decision Committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October, 2017
 K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I, hereby resolve that the charges for 2018 approved by the Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha published in the Extraordinary 
Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th december, 2015, mentioned in the Schedule 01 of the By-law on exhibitting Advertisements in 
the  Institutions of  local Governments (Supplementary By-laws) Act, no. 6 of 1952 should be imposed as shown below:

<!-- page 230 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1874
 1 Advertisement notice less than 1 Sq.M. 250 350 500
  exhibited on any wall or More than 1 Sq.M. Rs. 200 for every Sq.M. when increasing more than
  parapet wall  1Sq.M. or part of it
 2 For cloth, digital Banner less than 3 Sq.M. 250 350 500
   More than 3 Sq.M. Rs. 200 for every Sq.M. when increasing more than
    3Sq.M. or part of it
 3 Advertisement notice less than 1 Sq.M. 500 750 1,000
  exhibited on metal sheet More than 1 Sq.M. Rs. 300 for every Sq.M. when increasing more than
  or timber  1Sq.M. or part of it
 4 Advertisement notice less than 1 Sq.M. 500 750 1,000
  working in electricity More than 1 Sq.M. Rs. 300 for every Sq.M. when increasing more than
    1Sq.M. or part of it
 5 Advertisement notice less than 1 Sq.M. 250 350 500
  exhibited on wax sheet More than 1 Sq.M. Rs. 200 for every Sq.M. when increasing more than
  or cardboard  1Sq.M. or part of it
 6 Advertisement notice less than 1 Sq.M. 250 350 500
  exhibited on plastic More than 1 Sq.M. Rs. 200 for every Sq.M. when increasing more than
  board or fibreboard  1Sq.M or part of it
 7 Advertisement notice less than 1 Sq.M. 750 850 1,000
  exhibited with electrical More than 1 Sq.M. Rs. 500 for every Sq.M. when increasing more than
  apparatue  1Sq.M. or part of it
11-774/10 –––––––––––––––––––
keLaNiya   pradeshiya  sabha
imposing Charges for regulating decorations  - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed under No. 2017/4236 of decision committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16 th  October, 2017
 K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I, hereby resolve that the charges for 2018 approved by the Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha published in the Extraordinary 
Gazette No. 1947/6 of 28
th  december, 2015, mentioned in the Schedule “A” of the By-law on Regulating decorations in 
the institutions of local Governments (Supplementary By-laws) Act. no. 6 of 1952 should be imposed as shown below. 
schedule “A”
chArges for regulAting decorAtions
 
Limit  of Decoration Charges Deposit Amount
  Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.
Per day  5,00 0 10,000 0
Per month  5,000 0 10,000 0
11-774/11
 Serial No. Nature of Board Spuare Metre        Charges
    Less  than 3 Between 3 For a Year
    months or 6 months
    Rs. Rs. Rs.
schedule no. 1

<!-- page 231 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1875
keLaNiya   pradeshiya  sabha
imposing Charges for reception hall  - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed under no. 2017/4236 of decision Committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October, 2017
 K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya,  
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I hereby resolve that I impose the charges for hunupitiya Shanthi Reception hall and head office Reception hall 
belonging to the Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha for 2018 as shown below. 
1. Hunupitiya Shanthi Reception Hall
  
 Occasion Duration Imposing Deposit Charges for
   Charges Amount Additional
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 1 Hour
     Rs. cts.
01  Private/Ceremonial 8.00 A.M – 12.00 noon 8,000 0 3,000 0 1,000 0
   2.00 P.M –  6.00 P.M. 8,000 0 3,000 0 1,000 0
   6.00 P.M – 10.00 P.M. 10,000 00 5,000 0 2,000 0
     
02  Government/Schools/ 8.00 A.M – 12.00 noon 4,000 0 3,000 0 1,000 0
  Political-Meetings/ 2.00 P.M –  6.00 P.M. 4,000 0 3,000 0 1,000 0
  Conference 6.00 P.M – 10.00 P.M. 5,000 0 5,000 0 2,000 0
     
03  Regligious 8.00 A.M – 12.00 noon Free 3,000 0 Free
   2.00 P.M –  6.00 P.M.  3,000 0
   6.00 P.M – 10.00 P.M.  5,000 0
 
04  others Charges per an hour 1,500 0 _  _ 
2. Head Office Reception Hall
  
 Occasion Duration Imposing Deposit Charges for
   Charges Amount Additional
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 1 Hour
     Rs. cts.
01  Private/Ceremonial 8.00 A.M – 12.00 noon 12,000 0 5,000 0 1,000 0
   2.00 P.M –  6.00 P.M. 12,000 0 5,000 0 1,000 0
   6.00 P.M – 10.00 P.M. 15,000 0 8,000 0 2,000 0
     
02  Government/Schools/ 8.00 A.M – 12.00 noon 6,000 0 5,000 0 1,000 0
  Political-Meetings/ 2.00 P.M –  6.00 P.M. 6,000 0 5,000 0 1,000 0
  Conference 6.00 P.M – 10.00 P.M. 7,500 0 8,000 0 2,000 0

<!-- page 232 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1876
03  Religious 8.00 A.M – 12.00 noon Free 5,000 0 Free
   2.00 P.M –  6.00 P.M.  5,000 0
   6.00 P.M – 10.00 P.M.  8,000 0 
04  others Charges per an hour 3,000 0 _  _ 
11-774/12
keLaNiya   pradeshiya  sabha
imposing daily Charges for kiribathgoda Weekly Fair  - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed under no. 2017/4236 of decision Committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October, 2017
 K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I, hereby resolve that I impose the daily charges for Kiribathgoda Weekly Fair for 2018 as shown below:
 Kinds of Goods Floor Extent for Business Daily Charges for Daily Charges for Not
   Weekly Fair Weekly Fair
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Vegetables/Fruit 6' x 3' 100 0 60 0
Potatos/onion/dried Fish 6' x 3' 200 0 60 0
Beetles/Kinds of Plants 6' x 3' 100 0 30 0
lorry of coconut per 01 lorry of Coconut 300 0 200 0
Plastic Goods 6' x 3' 200 0 100 0
Fish 6' x 3' 100 0 60 0
Textile 6' x 3' 200 0 100 0
Food Cart per a Cart 80 0 80 0
Others 6' x 3' 100 0 60 0
11-774/13
 Occasion Duration Imposing Deposit Charges for
   Charges Amount Additional
   Rs. cts. Rs. cts. 1 Hour
     Rs. cts.

<!-- page 233 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1877
keLaNiya   pradeshiya  sabha
imposing service Charges  - 2018
I hereby notify that the following suggestion has been passed under No. 2017/4236 of decision committee of Pradeshiya 
Sabha held by Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha on 16th October, 2017
 K. h. KAPilA KumArA,
 Secretary, 
 Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha.
office of Pradeshiya Sabha,
Kelaniya, 
16th October, 2017.
ReSolutIon
I, hereby resolve that the charges for 2018 approved by the Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha published in the Extraordinary 
Gazette no. 1947/6 of 28th december, 2015, Specimen Application form mentioned in the Schedule “A” and Charges 
mentioned in the Schedule “B” of the By-law on Service Charges in the Institutions of local Governments (Supplymentary 
By-laws) Act, no. 6 of 1952 should be imposed as shown below:
schedule “A”
Issuing Applications
 i. Application for Quoted Portion from the assessment ledger
 ii. Application for Certificate of Road Map
 iii. Application for Certificate of non Assignment
 iv. Application for deed extract to rectify assessment ledger
 v. Application for receiving Membership of library
 vi. Application for registering Suppliers
 vii. Application for receiving envoirnment license
Issuing Certificates
 i. Certificate of Quoted Portion from the assessment ledger
 ii. Certificate of Road Map
 iii. Certificate of non Assignment
 iv. Certificate of Additional Assessment assess notice
schedule “B”
chArges for suPPlying services
 Service Charges for Deposit amount Charges Charges for issuing
  Application   Certificate
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
Issuing quoted portion from the 50 0 00 0 00 0
assessment ledger
(a) For the first year    7 0

<!-- page 234 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'17
Part IV (B) – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt rePuBlIc of SrI lanka – 17.11.2017
1878
(b) For after every year    5 0
Certificate of Road Map/non Assignment/ 10 0 00 0 00 0 270 0
Ownership
Issuing Additional Assessment Notice 00 0 00 0 00 0 100 0
Rectifying the assessment ledger according
to the Deed Extract
(a) Value of the Registered deed less  100 0 00 0 200 0 00 0
 than Rs. 100,000
(b) Value of the Registered deed less than 100 0 00 0 300 0 00 0
 Rs. 100,000 - Rs. 500,000
(c) Value of the Registered deed Rs. 500,000 100 0 00 0 400 0 00 0
 - Rs. 1,500,000
(d) Value of the Registered deed 
 Rs. 1,500,000 - Rs. 2,500,000 100 0 00 0 500 0 00 0
(e) Value of the Registered deed 
 Rs. 2,500,000 - Rs. 5,000,000 100 0 00 0 600 0 00 0
(f) Value of the Registered deed more than
 Rs. 5,000,000 100 0 00 0 1,000 0 00 0
Receiving of Membership of Library
(a) Receiving new Membership for a resident 10 0  00 0 100 0 00 0
 within the Authorized Area of Sabha
(b) Receiving new Membership for a resident
 out of the Authorized Area of Sabha 10 0 1,250 0 100 0 00 0
(c) Renewal of the membership 10 0 00 0 50 0 00 0
 Registering Supplies 00 0 00 0 1,000 0 00 0
11-774/14
 Service Charges for Deposit amount Charges Charges for issuing
  Application   Certificate
  Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
PRInted  At  the  dePARtMent  oF  GoVeRnMent  PRIntInG,  SRI  lAnKA.