

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2115$12 - 2019 ud¾;= ui 18 jeks i÷od - 2019'03'18
No. 2115/12  -  MONDAY ,  MARCH  18,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
P.S. No.: PS/CSA/00/9/6/1/4
BY  HIS  EXCELLENCY  MAITHRIPALA  SIRISENA
PRESIDENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA
MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - G 29385 — 392  (03/2019)
Presidential Directive
Establishment of a Special Agency by His Excellency the President in the exercise of powers vested in His Excellency by
Article 33 (2) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to advise and assist the Government in the
formulation and implementation of a National Wage Policy by conducting a carder assessment and reviewing all remuneration
structures including  the salaries and wages in the Public Sector in order to facilitate due fulfillment of manpower needs in the
Public  Sector and the Private Sector as a whole, aimed at enhancing efficiency and productivity of the Public Sector in duly
achieving the aspirations of the people within the framework of good governance.
To:
1. S. Ranugge Esquire
2. C.P. Siriwardene Esquire
3. Madam Damitha de Zoysa
4. Lalith Kannangara Esquire
5. Janaka Sugathadasa Esquire
 Seal

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'03'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2019
2A
6. Madam Chithtrangani Wageeshwara
7. Madam Chandrani Senaratne
8. Kingsley Fernando Esquire
9. G. S. Edirisingha Esquire
10. M. C. Wickramasekara Esquire
11. Dr. Palitha Abeykoon Esquire
12. D. Abeysooriya Esquire
13. Leslie Shelton Devendra Esquire
Greetings!
WHEREAS having duly recognized the manpower needs of public and the private sector in the process of achieving
the targets of the Medium Term Economic Development Framework presented by the Government and to meet the aspirations
of the people, the Government proposed to offer a package  of incentives to recruit and retain in the public service personnel
who are competent and capable of handling the task of efficient delivery of services, facilitation of the development process
and carrying out regulatory  functions, where necessary.
AND WHEREAS the Government has recognized the need to make the employees of the entire public sector as well
as the private sector a contented and motivated lot.
AND WHEREAS it is considered necessary to take note of the structural changes underway in the economy in
diverting human resources to different sectors and that the cost of labour is maintained at a competitive level favourable to
Sri Lanka by raising productivity of the labour force to international competitive levels.
AND WHEREAS it is recognized that inappropriate competition between the public sector and private sector as a
whole as well as amongst various institutions within the public sector be avoided in the fulfillment of manpower needs of the
country.
AND WHEREAS the Government has recognized the need to gear up the public sector to achieve high levels of
productivity and efficiency and to help eliminate current drawbacks in the fulfillment of manpower needs of the private sector.
AND WHEREAS the Government is conscious of the prevailing practices of recruitment and determination of
salaries and wages and the need to rationalize cadre requirements of public sector institutions consistent with efficient and
productive service delivery.
AND WHEREAS difficulties are being experienced in recruiting and retaining professionals to Government
Departments due to the payment of widely different salaries and remunerations in the Semi-Government Sector such as State
Corporations and State Banks to those with equal academic, professional qualifications who discharge almost similar
responsibilities in the public service.
AND WHEREAS having recognized the need to put in place suitable special methodologies by the introduction of
salary scales exclusively for competent individuals specialized in the fields of Management, Science and Technology as well
as for professionals with particular expertise in order to attract them to the Public Sector at present and in the near future to
efficiently fulfill the role of the Public  Sector in the economic development process, thereby more meaningfully implement
government economic policy and to introduce necessary changes to conditions of employment.
AND WHEREAS it is considered appropriate to introduce part time or any other suitable employment scheme that
could enhance productivity and competitiveness by attracting skilled workers who are inclined to serve for shorter period
than is required in the case of permanent service and create alternative conditions consistent with prevailing unemployment
rates and the aging  of the population.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'03'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2019
3A
AND WHEREAS being aware that the recurrent expenditure of the Government is at excessive level  and recognizing
the need for the most appropriate methodologies to be adopted within the limits of Government funds to provide non-
monetary incentives after review of the various incentives and reward schemes including gratuities currently being operated
by certain government institutions.
AND WHEREAS realizing the need for the settlement of disputes that have arisen in relation to the existing salaries
and wages, cadre and conditions of service, schemes of recruitment and promotion and Service Minutes.
AND WHEREAS the Government has identified the need to introduce appropriate methodologies guaranteeing a
suitable minimum wage, security of employment and provision of essential welfare amenities to the employees based on a
scientific analysis of the current socio-economic and public finance situation to ensure the flow of benefits of economic
development to the community as a whole.
AND WHEREAS giving highest priority to all aforesaid the Government is desirous of establishing a Salaries &
Cadre Commission (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) for the purpose of:-
(a) Reviewing the currently sanctioned staff for each institution in the public sector as a whole including the
Provincial Councils and propose an optimal staff for each such institution.
(b) Recommending proposals to bring about a fundamental change in the current management systems and the
administrative ethos in the public service in such a way as to facilitate the achievement of set objectives and
evaluation of performance with a view to enhancing productivity of the public service.
(c) Formulating innovative schemes to determine and adjust salaries, wages, annual bonus, various other
incentives (such as new productivity,  circle allowances etc.) of the public service in keeping with the current
accelerated Economic Development Programme which is based on the concept of good governance.
(d) Making recommendations for the introduction of a suitable salaries and wages structure for the public
service including  the Provincial Public Service; Semi-Government service including State Corporation, State
Enterprises and Statutory Boards; Central Bank of Sri Lanka and State Banking sector; Armed Services;
Universities and Special Institutions for which legislative provisions have been made for the salaries and
emoluments of staff to be charged on the Consolidated Fund; with focus on matters referred Preamble.
(e) Recommending a suitable National Salaries & Wages Policy in order to prevent inappropriate competition
that may arise in diverting manpower resources to the Public Sector Institutions including those referred to
at (d) above and the private sector.
(f) Initiating such action as is deemed appropriate until such time that a National Salary & Wage Policy is
formulated and implemented as mentioned at (e) above, to minimize the issues identified in relation to
salaries, staff and Service Minutes in giving effect to the Public Administration Circulars No. 06/2006 and
03/2016 and Management Circular No. 30 or salary anomalies  occasioned by the salary increases granted
and to act as an arbitrator and in such instances to provide solutions having regard to the National Salaries
& Wages Policy to be formulated in the future.
(g) Making recommendations regarding the methodology to be adopted in the payment or revision of pensions
consequent to salary increases effected in the public sector from time to time.
(h) Formulating a methodology and submit recommendations to the Government on the implementation of a
contributory pension scheme for employees of the public service.
And whereas I am of the view that the execution of the duties and responsibilities the said Commission is entrusted
with, as identified above, should commence immediately in the public interest.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'03'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 18.03.2019
4A
Now, therefore, I, Maithripala Sirisena, President, in pursuance of the provisions of Article 33 (2) of the Constitution
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka do hereby establish the National Salaries and Cadre Commission to
undertake and execute the said duties and responsibilities for a two (02) year period commencing 25th March, 2019.
And reposing great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, do by these presents, appoint you,
the said,
To :
1. S. Ranugge Esquire
2. C.P. Siriwardene Esquire
3. Madam Damitha de Zoysa
4. Lalith Kannangara Esquire
5. Janaka Sugathadasa Esquire
6. Madam Chithtrangani Wageeshwara
7. Madam Chandrani Senaratne
8. Kingsley Fernando Esquire
9. G. S. Edirisingha Esquire
10. M. C. Wickramasekara Esquire
11. Dr. Palitha  Abeykoon Esquire
12. D.  Abeysooriya Esquire
13. Leslie Shelton Devendra Esquire
as members of the National Salaries and Cadre Commission and direct you to take all such steps as may be deemed necessary
to proceed with the implementation of the tasks set out at (a) to (h) above.
And I, further appoint S. Ranugge Esquire as the Chairman of the Commission and    Anura Jayawickrama Esquire as
the Secretary to the Commission.
And I, do hereby authorize the Commission to issue instructions, make inquiries and investigate matters as may be
necessary in relation to the execution of the tasks the said Commission is hereby entrusted with.
And I, do hereby require and direct all public officers and such other persons to whom the Commission may issue
instructions or apply for assistance for information, to comply with such instructions, render all such assistance and furnish
all such information as may properly be complied with, rendered and furnished, in that behalf.
I do hereby abolish the National Salaries and Cadre Commission established by the Presidential Directive dated
03.03.2016 in terms of Article 33 (2) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka with effect from
24th  March,  2019.
Given  at  Colombo,  under  the  seal  of  the  Democratic  Socialist Republic  of Sri Lanka on this 18th  day of March,
in the year Two Thousand and Nineteen.
By Order of His Excellency,
Udaya R. Seneviratne,
Secretary to the President.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.