

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1898$5 - 2015 ckjdß ui 19 jeks i÷od - 2015'01'19
No. 1898/5 - MONDAY ,  JANUARY  19,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Minute of the Western Provincial Public Management Assistant’s Service
THE following mentioned Minute of the Western Provincial Public Management Assistant’s Service will be substituted
without any detriment to a measure taken or considered as taken under the Western Provincial Council Public Service in
compliance to the Minute of Western Provincial Public Management Assistant’s Service, which was published in the
Extraordinary Gazette Paper No. 1385/10 dated 23rd March 2005 of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and put into
effect from 01st of January 2004, including the amendments made to the said Service Minute from time to time.
S.  ALAVI  MOWLANA,
Governor,
Western Province.
On the 26th day of December 2014,
At Governor’s Secretariat (W.P .),
No. 98/4, Havelock Road,
Colombo 05.
MINUTE  OF  THE  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANT’S  SERVICE
1. Effective Date :  This service minute shall come in to effect from 02nd April, 2013.
2. Appointing Authority :
Management Assistant Non - technical Multi duty - segment I service category - (Grade III, II, I) :
Public Service Commission of the Western Provincial Council.
Management Assistant - Supra Grade - service category (Supra Grade) :
Public Service Commission of the Western Provincial Council.
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
4 — PG  2330

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
2A
3. Particulars of the Service Category :
3.1 Service Category : Management Assistant Non - technical Multi duty - segment I - service category
Management Assistant - Supra Grade - Service category
3.2 Grades : Management Assistant Non - technical Multi duty - Segment I
Grade III
Grade II
Grade I
Management Assistant - Supra Grade : Supra Grade
The Supra Grade shall consist of a scheduled cadre outside the cadre of above mentioned Grade III, II and I.
Appointment to this grade shall be made through a selection process based on the vacancies existing in the
cadre.
3.3 Entrusting Functions :
Functions shall not be entrusted on the grade basis and the Head of the Department / Institution shall entrust
any function out of the functions entrusted to this service category to an officer in any grade on exigency of
service, based on the seniority and merit.
4. Role of the Service :
Functions, which are not technical, but multi-functional in nature and for which specific skills other than the technical
skills are required out of the tasks which are supportive or facilitating to the tasks of officers in executive, management
and administrative levels of the institutions, shall be entrusted to the officers belonging to this service. Accordingly,
the employees belonging to this service shall perform duties out of the tasks of this category which are determined
precisely.
5. Salary :
5.1 Salary code number : Grade III, II and I MN - 02 - 2006 - A
Supra Grade MN - 07 - 2006 - A
5.2 Salary Scale : Structured Grades of III, II and I
Rs. 13,990 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 - 23,230
Supra Grade
Rs. 20,030 - 11 x 365 - 18 x 500 - 33,045
5.3 Initial salary step applicable to grade system :
MN - 02 - 2006 - A
Grade Sal ary Step Salary Point
III Step 01 Rs. 13,990
II Step 12 Rs. 15,610
I Step 23 Rs. 17,550

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
MN - 07 - 2006 - A
Grade Salary Step Salary Point
Supra Grade Step 02 Rs. 20,395
6. Post / posts belonging to Service category :
6.1 Approved posts and number of approved posts (Shall be as per the approval given by the Director General of
Management Services)
Approved Grade to which the post is Salary Code
Designations approved
Western Provincial Western Provincial Public MN - 02 - 2006 - A
Public Management Management Assistants’
Assistants’ Service Grade III/II/I
Administrative W estern Provincial Public MN - 07 - 2006 - A
Officer/Secretary Management Assistants’
(Pradeshiya Sabha) Service (Supra Grade)
(Annex 01)
6.2 Combined number of officers :
For the purpose of promotions from grade to grade, all the grades i.e III, II and I shall be treated as belonging
to the Combined Number of Officers.
The number of employees will be as indicated under each heading and programme in annual estimates.
6.3 Nature of the post in service - Permanent and Pensionable.
7. Method of recruitment :
7.1 Recruitment Ratio
Stream Percentage
Open 70%
Limited 30%
Note : A number of vacancies of not more than 30% of total vacancies shall be filled by way of promotion of employees
in primary grade of the Western Provincial Public Service on the results of the Limited Competitive Examination
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the Secretary of Provincial Public Service
Commission and an interview for verification of qualification.
If the number of persons eligible for appointment on the results of that examination is less than 30% of the
vacancies, the difference between the 30% and the number of persons eligible for appointment will be met from
the persons eligible at the Open Competitive Examination.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
4A
7.2 Recruitment under Open Stream
7.2.1 Grade of Recruitment : Grade III
7.2.2 Qualifications :
7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications
(a) Shall have passed 06 subjects with credit passes for four subjects including Sinhala / Tamil /
English and Mathematics at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination at one sitting.
And
(b) Shall have passed all the subjects in G. C. E. (Advanced Level) at one sitting (except the
General paper), Passing three (03) subjects under the old syllabus at one sitting would be
sufficient for this purpose.
7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications : Not Applicable
7.2.2.3 Experience : Not Applicable
7.2.2.4 Physical Fitness
All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and
to perform the duties of the post.
7.2.2.5 Other
(i) Candidates shall be of excellent character
(ii) Shall have satisfied each and every way the qualifications, required for the recruitment to the
post, mentioned from 7.2.2. up to 7.2.3. on the prescribed date as per the notification / Gazette.
7.2.2.5.1 Recruitment to the service shall strictly be on a representative basis. A fixed number of
vacancies shall be set apart for each district functioning under the authority of Western
Provincial Council in proportion to its population. Only the applicants from a particular
district shall be entitled to compete for the vacancies to be filled in that district.
(i) At the instances where it is not possible to fill the number of vacancies allocated
to a particular district by the qualified candidates applied for the same district, that
number of vacancies shall be re-distributed among all the adjoining districts, in
proportonate to the population of such districts.
(ii) If the total number of posts to be filled is few and the district’s population basis
cannot be applied, selection shall be made in the order of the merit.
(iii) Where the number of candidates who secure the minimum marks required is less
than the number of vancancies available in a district, the district population basis
shall not be applied for selection.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
7.2.2.5.2. Eligibility for inclusion in a district.
At least one of the following requirements shall be fulfilled by a candidate to compete for
the vacancies in the district.
(i) The candidate should have been born in the district, or
(ii) He shall have been a permanent resident of the district at least for three (03)
continuous years within the five (05) years immediately preceding the last date to
fulfill the eligibility qualifications for the examination, or
(iii) He shall have received secondary school education within the district for five
continuous years.
Note : (i) If the father / mother of any candidate has been employed in a transferable
service of the government or of a Provincial Public Service or of a State
Corporation, then such candidate shall be permitted to choose his father’s /
mother’s place of birth as his district.
(ii) No candidate shall be allowed to compete for vacancies in more than one
district. Once a candidates declares a district of his choice as the most preferred,
when competing under Section 7.2.2.5.2 above, it shall remain irrevocable.
7.2.3 Age :
7.2.3.1 Minimum age limit : 18 years
7.2.3.2 Maximum age limit : 30 years
7.2.4 Method of Recruitment : Open Competitive Examination
7.2.4.1 Written Examination
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Language Proficiency 100 4 0
Aptitude 100 4 0
(Annex 02)
7.2.4.1.1 Authority for conducting Examination : The Commissioner General of Examination
7.2.4.2 Professional Test : Not applicable
7.2.4.3 Structured Interview : Not applicable
7.2.4.4 General Interview (No marks shall be allocated)
7.2.5 Method of calling for applications : Applications shall be called through a Gazette notification or a public
notice published in all three languages.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
6A
7.3 Recruitment under limited stream :
7.3.1 Grade of Recruitment : Grade III
7.3.2 Qualifications :
7.3.2.1 Educational qualifications :
Shall have passed G .C.E. O/L Examination in not less than 06 subjects including Language /
Literature and Arithmetic / Pure Mathematics / Elementary Mathematics / Commercial Arithmetic
with credit passes for two subjects at one sitting.
7.3.2.2 Professional Qualifications : Not applicable
7.3.2.3 Experience :
Shall have completed at least a continuous and satisfactory service of 05 years immediately
preceding the prescribed date, which fact shall be certified by the Head of the Department.
(A training period covered by a candidate prior to the appointment to a certain post on permanent
basis or a training period which shall have to be completed as a condition for appointment to a
certain post on permanent basis shall not be considered for the 05 years period for satisfying
above qualifications. Further the period of service under casual / temporary basis completed by a
candidate before his appointment to a certain post on permanent basis shall not be considered for
the 05 year period for satisfying above qualifications.)
7.3.2.4 Physical Fitness
All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and
to perform the duties of the post.
7.3.2.5 Other :
(i) Shall be officers who are holding permanent posts in Western Provincial Council Public
Service and confirmed in those posts while receiving the salary at primary level under salary
codes of PL category and officers receiving salary under salary code MN - 01 - 2006 A as per
Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006.
(ii) Candidates shall be of excellent character
(iii) Shall have satisfied all the qualifications required for recruitment to the post as at date
prescribed in the Gazette notification.
7.3.3 Method of Recruitment : Limited Competitive Examination
7.3.3.1 Written Examination
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Language ability and Qualifying 1 0 0 4 0
Test for Management Assistants
Aptitude 1 0 0 4 0
(Annex 03)

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
7.3.3.1.1 Authority for conducting Examination : The Commissioner General of Examination
7.3.3.2 Professional Test : Not applicable
7.3.3.3 Structured Interview : Not applicable
7.3.3.4 General Interview (No marks shall be allocated)
7.3.4 Method of calling for applications : Details pertaining to the method of application to Limited Competitive
Examination and recommendation paper will be as per a notice published in the Gazette or in an internal
circular.
8. Efficiency Bar
8.1
Efficiency At what point the limit for Nature of the Efficiency Bar
Bar passing the Efficiency Bar Written/Professional/
expires (number of years) Certificate courses/other
1st Efficiency Bar Before three years from the date W ritten (Annex 04)
of recruitment to Grade III
2nd  Efficiency Bar Before three years from the date W ritten (Annex 05)
of promotion to Grade II
3rd  Efficiency Bar Before five years from the date W ritten (Annex 06)
of promotion to Grade I
8.2 The Efficiency Bar Examination shall be conducted twice every year.
8.3 Authority for conducting Examination : The Commissioner General of Examination.
9. Language Proficiency
9.1
Language Proficiency to be satisfied
Official Language Officers who have been appointed to service in a language other than any
official language shall acquire proficiency in one of the official languages
before confirmation in the service.
Other Official Language Proficiency at the relevant level shall be acquired as per Public Administration
Circular 01/2014 and other circulars consequential thereto.
10. Grade Promotions
10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II
10.1.1 Employees who prove average performance

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
8A
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
(i) Shall have been confirmed in the post
(ii) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least 10 years in
Grade III of the service category and earned 10 salary increments.
(iii) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of 10
years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance
appraisal procedure.
(iv) Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five years immediately preceding to the
date of promotion.
(v) Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.
(vi) Shall have obtained the proficiency in other official language at the relevant level.
10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion
When officers who have satisfied the required qualifications make a request to the Secretary for
promotion to Grade II by using the form given in Annex 07, the promotion shall be made to be
effective from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications after verifying these
qualifications by the Secretary.
10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1 Employees who prove average performance
10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
(i) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten (10) years
in Grade II of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments.
(ii) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of 10
years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance
appraisal procedure.
(iii) Shall have proved a satisfactory period of service within 05 years immediately preceding
to the date of promotion.
(iv) Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.
10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion
When officers who have satisfied the required qualifications make a request to the Secretary for
promotion to Grade I by using the form given in Annex 08, the promotion shall be made to be
effective from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications, after verifying these
qualifications by the Secretary.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
10.3 Promotion to Supra Grade
10.3.1 Promotion on the Limited Competitive Examination
10.3.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
(a) (i) Shall be an officer of Grade I in Service
or
(ii) Shall be an officer in Grade II who has completed at least an active and satisfactory service
period of not less than eight (08) years
or
(iii) Shall be an officer in Grade II of the service who has obtained a degree from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission.
(b) Shall have completed a satisfactory service period of five (05) years immediately preceding to
the date of promotion.
10.3.1.2 Method of Promotion
Appointments to a number of vacancies of not more than 35% of the total vacancies in Supra
Grade shall be made on the results of a limited competitive examination. The candidates who
have satisfied the qualifications shall be appointed after verifying their qualifications by an
interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission. The interview shall strictly be for
examination of the certificates by which the qualifications of the candidates are proved and no
marks shall be allocated in this regard. (Syllabus and the marking scheme is given in Annex 09).
10.3.2 Promotion on Merit
10.3.2.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
 (i) Shall be an officer who has completed an active and satisfactory service period of at least
five (05) years in Grade I as at prescribed date.
(ii) Shall have completed satisfactory service period of five (05) years immediately preceding
to the date of promotion.
10.3.2.2 Method of Promotion
Appointments equivalent to 65% of the total vacancies in Supra Grade shall be made on merit.
For this purpose, priority shall be determined on the order of the aggregate of marks of an
Aptitude Test conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the Public
Service Commission and marks allocated on the basis of seniority and experience by a board
appointed by the Commission. Candidates shall appear for an interview held by a board appointed
by the Commission for verification of qualifications. No marks shall be allocated at that interview.
(Annex 10)
Note -
The date of promotion of the officers, who are unable to pass the efficiency bar on due date
for the purpose of promotion under average performance, shall be delayed by a period similar to
the period taken by the officer for passing the same.
5 — PG  2330

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
10A
11. Appointment to posts : Not applicable
12. Conditions applicable to the service :
12.1 Conditions for confirmation in service
12.1.1 An officer appointed to Grade III of service by an open competitive examination shall be subjected to a
probation period of three years. If the Head of the Institution is satisfied himself to the effect that the
officer has passed the first efficiency bar examination conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations and that the work, conduct and attendance of the officer are satisfactory, it shall be
informed to the Secretary by the end of the three years and thereafter the appointment of the officer
shall be confirmed if the Commission is satisfied in this regard.
12.1.2 An officer recruited to Grade III of the service by the limited competitive examination shall be subjected
to an acting period of one year from the date of appointment. If the Head of the Institution is satisfied
that the officer’s work, conduct and attendance during the period of acting are satisfactory and
subsequent to reporting so to the Secretary by the end of one year and if the Commission is satisfied in
this regard the appointment of the officer shall be confirmed. However, such officer shall complete first
efficiency bar within three years from the date of appointment.
12.1.3 Every appointment is given subject to the condition that the appointee should be ready to serve in any
part of the island and further to proof by a medical test that the officer is physically fit for the service in
any part of the island.
13. Definitions and Interpretations
13.1 The term “Service Minute” shall mean the Minute on the Western Provincial Public Management Assistant’s
Service.
13.2 “Governor” shall mean the Governor of Western Province.
13.3 “Secretary” shall mean the Secretary to the Public Service Commission of Western Provincial Council.
13.4 “Chief Secretary” shall mean the Chief Secretary of the Western Provincial Council.
13.5 “Service” shall mean the Western Provincial Public Management Assistant’s Service.
13.6 “Commission” shall mean the Public Service Commission of Western Provincial Council.
13.7 “Period of Satisfactory Service” shall mean a period of service during which the officer has earned all increments
required to be earned by the officer during that period by way of performing the duty of a Public Officer
efficiently and diligently and passing all efficiency bars prescribed and further satisfying all the qualifications
prescribed for the confirmation in service and no any punishable offence committed by the officer
13.8 “Period of Active Service” shall mean the actual period served by the officer engaging in duties assigned to him
and drawing the salary attached to his post. However, all the periods on No Pay other than Maternity Leave
approved by the government shall not be counted for the period of active service.
13.9 The “Gazette” shall mean the Gazette published by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Absorption into Grade System :
Methodology for absorption of officers serving at present to new grade system is given in Annex 11.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
15. Interim Provisions :
1. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade III
(i) Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar prescribed for officers in Grade III in the service minute
implemented before the new service minute is enforced, but either passed or been exempted from one or
several subjects of the examination i.e. (I) Office Systems (2) Accounting Systems and (3) Computer Test shall
be exempted from the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination, on the basis of subject by subject, prescribed
by this service minute for the officers in Grade III.
2. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade II
(i) Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar prescribed for officers in Grade II in the service minute
implemented before the new service minute is enforced, but either passed or been exempted from one or both
subjects of the examination i.e. (I) Office Systems (2) Accounting Systems Used in Government Offices shall
be exempted from the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination, on the basis of subject by subject, prescribed
by this service minute for the officers in Grade II.
(ii) Officers who have been promoted to Grade II before the effective date of this service minute shall pass the
efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade II before the lapse of six years (06) from the date of promotion
to Grade II.
3. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade I
(i) Officers who have earned five salary increments on completion of an active and satisfactory service of five
years after promotion to Grade I before the implementation of this service minute shall be exempted from the
requirement of passing the efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade I under this service minute
(ii) A period of concession of five years from the effective date of this service minute shall be given to the
officers, who have not earned five salary increments on completion of an active and satisfactory period of five
years from the date of promotion to Grade I, eventhough they have been promoted to Grade I before the
implementation of this service minute, to pass the relevant efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade I
under this service minute.
16. Matters not provided for in this Minute shall be determined by the Public Service Commission of Western
Province.
Annex 01
Serial Institution Position Approved
No. Cadre
1. Chief Secretary’s Office of the Western Province Administrative Officer 04
2. Governor’ Secretariat of the Western Province Administrative Officer 01
3. Western Province Provincial Public Service Commission Administrative Officer 01
4. Council Secretariat of the Western Province Administrative Officer 01
5. Department of Provincial Revenue of the Western Administrative Officer 01
Province
6. Western Provincial Department of Registration Administrative Officer 01
7. Ministry of Education, Local Government, Land, Administrative Officer 01
Manpower and Employment and Information of the
Western Province

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
12A
8. Western Provincial Department of Local Government Administrative Officer 01
9. Western Provincial Department of Education Administrative Officer 01
10. Zonal Education Office Negombo Administrative Officer 01
11. Zonal Education Office Minuwangoda Administrative Officer 01
12. Zonal Education Office Gampaha Administrative Officer 01
13. Zonal Education Office Kelaniya Administrative Officer 01
14. Zonal Education Office Colombo Administrative Officer 01
15. Zonal Education Office Jayawardhanapura Administrative Officer 01
16. Zonal Education Office Piliyandala Administrative Officer 01
17. Zonal Education Office Homagama Administrative Officer 01
18. Zonal Education Office Kalutara Administrative Officer 01
19. Zonal Education Office Horana Administrative Officer 01
20. Zonal Education Office Mathugama Administrative Officer 01
21. Western Provincial Department of Land Commissioner Administrative Officer 01
22. Ministry of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Minor Administrative Officer 01
Irrigation, Industry, Environmental Affairs and Cultural
and Arts Affairs of the Western Province
23. Western Provincial Department of Irrigation Administrative Officer 01
24. Western Provincial Department of Agriculture Administrative Officer 01
25. Western Provincial Department of Industries Administrative Officer 01
26. Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Probation and Administrative Officer 01
Child Care Services and Council Affairs of the Western
Province
27. Western Provincial Department of Health Administrative Officer 14
28. Western Provincial Department of Ayurveda Administrative Officer 01
29. Provincial Department of Probation & Child Care Administrative Officer 01
Services
30. Ministry of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs, Administrative Officer 01
Women’s Affairs, Food Supplies and Distribution,
Co-operative Development, Domestic Economic
Promotion, Fisheries, Rural Development, Tourism,
Investment Promotion Coordination and Animal
Production and Development of the Western Province
31. Western Provincial Department of Co-operatives Administrative Officer 01
32. Western Provincial Co-operative Employees’ Administrative Officer 01
Commission
33. Western Provincial Department of Motor Traffic Administrative Officer 01
34. Western Provincial Department of Animal Production Administrative Officer 01
and Health
35. Ministry of Electricity and Power , Provincial Roads, Administrative Officer 01
Housing and Construction, Water Supply and Drainage,
Social Welfare, Urban and Estate Infrastructure Facilities
of the Western Province
Serial Institution Position Approved
No. Cadre

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
36. Western Provincial Department of Social Services Administrative Officer 01
37. Colombo Municipal Council Administrative Officer 40
38. Colombo Municipal Council (Department of Central Store Officer 01
Procurement)
39. Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia Municipal Council Administrative Officer 05
40. Moratuwa Municipal Council Administrative Officer 04
41. Sri Jayawardhanapura Kotte Municipal Council Administrative Officer 03
42. Gampaha Municipal Council Administrative Officer 01
43. Negombo Municipal Council Administrative Officer 02
44. Kaduwela Municipal Council Administrative Officer 04
45. Boralesgamuwa Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
46. Kesbewa Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
47. Kolonnawa Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
48. Maharagama Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
49. Seethawakapura Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
50. Ja-Ela Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
51. Katunayaka-Seeduwa Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
52. Minuwangoda Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
53. Peliyagoda Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
54. Wattala -Mabola Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
55. Beruwala Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
56. Horana Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
57. Kalutara Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
58. Panadura Urban Council Administrative Officer 01
59. Homagama Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
60. Kotikawaththa Mulleriyawa Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
61. Seethawaka Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
62. Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
63. Biyagama Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
64. Divulapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
65. Dompe Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
66. Gampaha Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
67. Ja-Ela Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
68. Katana Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
69. Kelaniya Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
70. Mahara Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
71. Minuwangoda Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
72. Meerigama Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
73. Wattala Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
74. Agalawaththa Pradeshi ya Sabha Secretary 01
Serial Institution Position Approved
No. Cadre

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
14A
75. Bandaragama Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
76. Beruwala Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
77. Bulathsinhala Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
78. Dodangoda Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
79. Horana Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
80. Kalutara Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
81. Madurawala Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
82. Mathugama Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
83. Palindanuwara Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
84. Panadura Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
85. Walallawita Pradeshiya Sabha Secretary 01
Annex 02
1. Name of the Examination : Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Western Provincial
Public Management Assistants’ Service
2. Particulars of the Examination :
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
(1) Language Proficiency 2 1/2  hours 100 40
(2) Aptitude 1 hour 100 40
Marks will be deducted in every question paper for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates are
required to obtain an aggregate of at least fifty percent (50%) of the total marks of the examination. Appointments
shall be strictly made in the order of the marks secured depending on the number of vacancies set apart to be filled
on the results of the competitive examination.
3. Authority for conducting the examination :
The Commissioner General of Examinations
4. Time frame of the Examination :
5. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Question Syllabus
Paper
1. Language Proficiency The question paper shall consist of subject related questions  designed to
test the candidate’s ability of expression, comprehension, spellings, language
and essay, drafting a given letter, making graph based on the given data,
summarizing passages, expressing the idea of several given sentences in one
sentence and use of simple grammar.
2. Aptitude This paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to test the
candidates’ skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning and  general intelligence
(These papers shall be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties)
Serial Institution Position Approved
No. Cadre

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
Annex 03
1. Name of the Examination : Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Western Provincial
Public Management Assistants’ Service
2. Particulars of the Examination
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
(l) Language Proficiency and Aptitude Test 2 1/2 hours 100 40
of Management Assistants’ Service
(2) Aptitude 1 hour 100 40
Marks shall be deducted in every question paper for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates shall sit
this examination only in one language they prefer. Candidates are required to obtain an aggregate of at least fifty
percent (50%) of the total marks of the examination. Appointments shall strictly be made in the order of the merit and
the number of vacancies.
3. Authority for conducting the examination:
The Commissioner General of Examinations
4. Time frame of the Examination :
5. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Question Syllabus
 Paper
The question paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to test
the candidate’s ability of expression, comprehension, spellings, language and
essay, drafting a letter on given information, summarizing passages, expressing
the idea of several given sentences in one sentence, making graphs and tables
based on the given data, and subject related questions to test use of simple
grammar, questions designed to test the knowledge of the candidate on basic
rules and regulations applied in taking action regarding the documents of an
office and Management Assistant’s knowledge on duties such as action to be
taken on a letter containing matters for which such officer shall be attended to
and further questions to test candidate’s knowledge on the items used in the
office such as call-up diary, voucher, moving registers, attendance registers,
day stamp, official stamp and mail bag and their use.
2. Aptitude This paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to test the
candidates’ skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning and general intelligence
(These papers shall be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties)
1. Language Proficiency and
Aptitude Test of
Management Assistants’
Service

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
16A
Annex 04
1. Name of the Examination: Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade III of Western Provincial Public
Management Assistants’ Service
2. Particulars of the Examination (Shall pass within three years from the date of appointment)
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
(1) Office Systems 2 hours 100 40
(2) Accounting Systems 2 hours 100 40
(3) Computer Test 1 1/2 hours 100 40
Candidates shall answer the question papers in the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter the
relevant service or in an official language.
Officers may sit separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall score
at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
Note- Officers who have obtained Computer Driving License awarded by National Apprentice and Technical Training
Authority or a degree in Computer Science recognized by the University Grants Commission or Proficiency Level
at NVQ 4 or above from an institution approved by the Tertiary Education and V ocational Education Commission
shall be exempted from the above computer test.
3. Authority for conducting the Examination:
The Commissioner General of Examinations
4. Time frame of the Examination : shall be held twice in every year
5. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Question Syllabus
 Paper
1. Office Systems This paper shall be designed to test the candidate’s basic knowledge on
office systems adopted in government offices and practical use of that
knowledge, proper understanding of official documents and the ability of
presenting the ideas/ observations in clear and brief minutes and the ability of
drafting a letter according to an order given to the officer.
2. Accounting Systems It is expected to test candidate’s knowledge in Basic Accounts and Accounting
Systems adopted in government offices, functions of books and records on
controlling finances.
3. Computer Test (I) Basic concepts of Information Technology
(II) W indows Operating System
(III) Folder Management

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
(IV) Word Processing
Basic skills, screen familiarization, editing texts, Aligning text, fonts and
attributes, indenting, paragraphs, sub paragraphs, change of line spacing,
Tab setting, finding and replacing text, spelling and grammar, thesaurus,
working with columns, page setup, printing documents, creating tables,
sorting texts, file management, mail merging, working with macros
(V) Spreadsheets
Basic skills, formatting, editing, columns and ranges, insertion and
deletion, sorting, data, crteating charts, printing, @ function working
with macros, file-management
(VI) Internet and Email
Introduction to internet, basic skills, receiving mail, sending mail,
responding to mails, working with attachments , creating and using
nicknames to identify addresses, composing messages
For full particulars about the syllabus and method of applying candidates shall refer to the Gazette Notifications
related to the internal circular published by the Secretary to the Commission from time to time.
Annex 05
1. Name of the Examination : Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade II of Western Provincial Public
Management Assistants’ Service.
2. Particulars of the Examination (Shall pass within three years from the date of promotion to Grade II)
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
(1) Office Systems and Procedure 2 hours 100 40
(2) Accounting systems adopted 2 hours 100 4 0
in the government offices
Candidates shall answer the question papers in the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter the
relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who entered the service without a Competitive
Examination, both papers shall be answered in the language medium of their education or in an official language.
Officers may sit separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall secure
at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
3. Authority for conducting the examination :
The Commissioner General of Examinations
4. Time frame of the Examination : shall be held twice in every year
Name of the Question Syllabus
 Paper
Syllabus of the Examination (contd.)

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
18A
5. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Question Syllabus
 Paper
(1) Office Systems and It is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge of office systems practiced
Procedure in government offices and his/ her ability of practical  application of the
knowledge.
(2) Accounting Systems It is expected to test candidate’s knowledge in Accounting Systems practiced
practiced in in government offices, books and records on controlling Accounts and orders
government offices and instructions of the Treasury issued in  relation to such and his / her ability
of practical application of the knowledge.
For full particulars about the syllabus and method of applying candidates shall refer to the Gazette Notifications
related to the internal circular published by the Secretary to the Commission from time to time.
Annex 06
1. Name of the Examination : Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade I of Western Provincial Public
Management Assistants’ Service
2. Particulars of the Examination (Shall pass within five years from the date of promotion to Grade I)
Question Duration Total CutOff
Paper Marks Marks
(1) Establishment Procedure 1 1/2  hours 100 4 0
and Procedural Rules
(2) Public Finance 1 1/2  hours 100 4 0
Management
(3) Current Trends 1 hour 100 40
Written test shall be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English Medium. Candidates shall answer three question papers in
the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter the relevant service or in an official language. In
case of candidates who entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers shall be answered in the
language medium of their education or in an official language.
Officers may sit separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall secure
at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
3. Authority for conducting the examination:
The Commissioner General of Examinations
4. Time frame of the Examination : shall be held twice in every year

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
5. Syllabus of the Examination:
Name of the Question Syllabus
 Paper
(1) Establishment Procedure This paper shall consist of a part containing questions to test the knowledge
of Office Systems adopted in government offices covering the areas of
fundamentals of office systems, their  importance, written communication,
documentation and  compiling formats and to test the proficiency of the
experience  gained on office activities and another part containing of  questions
to test the knowledge .on matters contained in V olume I and II of the
Establishments Code and volume I of the procedural rules of Public Service
Commission.
(2) Public Finance Management It is expected to test the Candidates’ awareness and knowledge on the  subjects
In government departments, officesand  ministries such as Financial Control,
Custody of public money, revenue and payment, budget estimates, supply
and services (basic knowledge on board of survey and store keeping,  financial
regulations and auditing and basic banking practice)
(3) Current trends This paper shall consist of a part designed to test the candidates’ knowledge
on current, local and international events and a part designed to test the
candidates’ knowledge on new trends on  office management, service delivery
of public sector and good  governance.
For full particulars about the syllabus and method of applying candidates shall refer to the Gazette Notifications
related to the internal circular published by the Secretary to the Commission from time to time.
Annex 07
Specimen Application for promotion of the officers in Grade III of the Western Provincial Public Management
Assistants’ Service to Grade II on average performance
1. Name with initials: Mr/Mrs/Miss
2. Names denoted by the initials:
3. Date of Birth :
4. National Identity Card No :
5. Date of entry to the service:
6. Number of the appointment letter to Grade III :
7. Date on which the appointment was confirmed:
8. Date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination and the index number:
9. Date on which the 10 years of service completed:
10. Office serving at present:
I hereby request to grant me the promotion to Grade II of Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service from
...................................................
..................................................
Date : Applicant’s Signature. .
and Procedural Rules

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
20A
Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission
I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss............................................................................ is serving at this office and;
1. Has completed an active period of 10 years to the date of ........................ ;
2. Has earned 10 salary increments ;
3. Has proved performance at the level of satisfactory or above during the service of 10 years as per the approved
performance appraisal procedure immediately preceding the date of promotion;
4. The number of half payor no pay leave of the officer is ....................... during that time period he/she has not
obtained half payor no pay leave for the period of 10 years ;
5. Has not been subjected to any punishment (except warnings) during the period concerned ;
6. No disciplinary action is proceeding against the officer and do not intend to take any disciplinary action in the
future;
7. Has confirmed in the post from ..................................... ;
8. Has passed the Efficiency Bar Examination of Grade III ;
I hereby recommend this officer to be promoted to Grade II with effect from ................................................. since he/
she has completed a satisfactory service of five years.
Signature of the Head of the Institution Name:
Designation:
Official stamp:
Date : ...............................
Note : - In case the officer has not satisfied the qualification from 1-8, please mention them.
Annex 08
Specimen Application for Promotion of Officers in Grade II of Western Provincial Public Management Assistants’
Service to Grade I on Average Performance
Part I — (Should be completed by the officer)
1. (a) Name with initials :
(b) Names denoted by the initials :
(c) Previous names : (in the event ofa change of name only):
2. Date of birth :
3. National Identity Card No. :
4. Date of the first appointment to the service:
5. Number of the letter of appointment to Grade II :
6. Date of promotion to Grade II of the Service :
7. Present place of work and its address :
8. Date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination :
.................................................................... I,hereby certify that all information furnished by me above, are true and
correct. I am fully aware that if the particulars furnished by me are found to be  incorrect, my claim for promotion to Grade I in
terms of this Minute is liable to be disregarded and disciplinary action is liable to be taken against me.
..................................................
Date : ............................... Applicant’s Signature.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
Part II
Certificate of the Secretary to the Ministry / Head of the Department
Mr. / Mrs. / Miss. ..........................................................................................................
1. Date of completion of 10 years in Grade II of Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service:
2. Shall have earned all the salary increments during the 10 years,
3. Shall have proved a performance at average level or above during the 10 years immediately preceding the date of
promotion according to the approved performance evaluation procedure,
4. (i) Date of passing the efficiency bar examination:
Accounting systems Office systems
Date of the examination ..................................... ..............................
Index number ..................................... ..............................
(ii) The officer has/ has not fulfilled the requirement of passing the second efficiency bar examination.
If the requirement has been fulfilled, mention the reference number and date of the letter:
5. (i) If no pay /  half pay leave has been taken, the period / number of days:
(From the date of appointment! promotion to Grade II of Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service)
(ii) If any punishment / punishments (other than warning) have been imposed, give a brief account:
(Indicate the reference number)
6. If the officer has been released for service at a Corporation or other Statutory Board, period of such service:
I endorse that as at ............................ the officer has completed a period of 5 years of active service  in Grade II of
the service, that he has a period of satisfactory service, that all the foregoing particulars are correct according to the
personal file and that helshe has fulfilled all qualifications for promotion to Grade I of the service.
Signature of the Head of the Institution Name:
Designation:
(Official Stamp)
Date : ................................

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
22A
Annex 09
Regulations and recommendation paper for promotion to Supra Grade of Western Provincial Public Management Assistants’
Service
Limited Competitive Examination
01. Particulars of the Examination
Question paper Duration Total Marks
(1) Office Management 2 hours 100
(2) Office Systems 2 hours 100
(3) Establishment procedure and procedural rules 2 hours 100
(4) Public finance management 2 hours 100
(5) General paper 1 1/2  hours 100
02. Authority for conducting the examination:
The Commissioner General of examinations
03. Time frame of the examination : Shall be decided on the existing vacancies
04. Syllabus of the examination :
Name of the question paper Syllabus
(1)  Office Management Organizational structure,  Principles of organization,  task
analysis and task evaluation, leadership,  supervision
and the ability to make decisions,  communication, public
relations, coordination and problem solving
(2) Office systems Principles on office systems, office procedures,
documents and filing, planning and handling of  forms,
office correspondents, control over the  utilization of
office equipment, office layout  and environment, job
description, work and  systems study, measurement of
work and office  manual
(3) Establishment procedure and procedural rules Procedures to be followed when making  recruitments
to public service, establishment  activities of public
officers, Maintaining a  personal file, vesting of
powers for the tasks  such as appointments, transfers,
promotions and  termination of service of public
servants,  welfare of public servants, privileges entitled
to  public officers, general knowledge of the regulations
and circulars that have been already issued by the
government.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
(4) Public Finance Management Responsibilities of an accounting officer and annual
estimates, financial control, delegation of responsibilities
on financial matters, receipt of money, accounting and
acceptance of money, payments, custody of public
money, imprest and bank account, supplies and services,
tender procedures, board of surveys, audit queries,
ledgers and summaries of income and expenditure of
government offices, bank reconciliations, books on
financial management, general knowledge of the
regulations and circulars issued on utilization of Public
Finance so far by the government.
(5) General Paper The nature of public administration, structure of public
administration, public policies and new public reforms,
fundamental rights, Human rights, Human Rights
Commission, Ombudsman, Public Petition Committee of
the Parliament, office culture, ethics and morals, proper
maintenance of physical environment of the office and
welfare activities of the staff, recognition of civil and
official status in the aspect of Social Science and the
duties of public officers towards recipients.
Annex 10
Competitive Examination for Promotion to Supra Grade of Western Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service on
Merit
01. Particulars of the Examination
Question paper Duration Total Marks
(1) Aptitude and case study 1  1/2  hours 100
(2) Seniority 60
(3) Experience 40
02. Authority for conducting the examination:
The Commissioner General of examinations
03. Time frame of the examination : Shall be decided on the existing vacancies
Name of the question paper Syllabus
 (contd.)

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015
24A
04. Syllabus of the examination :
Name of the question paper Syllabus
(1)  Aptitude and case study This question paper shall consist of two parts.
Part I
All the questions shall be related to office administration and
questions shall be given on general knowledge, ability of decision
making, critical reasoning and problems related to office
administration.
Part II
Candidates shall have to answer questions on a case study regarding
office administration. The question paper shall be prepared with
one or several paragraphs.
(2) Seniority When marks are allocated for seniority, six marks shall be allocated
for each active and satisfactory period of one year completed after
the completion of five years in active and satisfactory service in
Grade I subjected to a maximum of 60 marks. For this purpose three
marks shall be allocated for a period of more than six months but
less than one year. However, marks shall not be allocated for a
period less than six months.
(3) Experience Maximum of 40 marks shall be given for a Supervising Officer in
Grade I of the service by allocating 02 marks per year.
Annex  11
Absorption of those who are in service (shall be applicable for those who are in service on due date)
,
All the officers who are serving in posts of Class III, II, I and Supra Class of Public Management Assistants’ Service
on due date shall be absorbed under the new Service Minute in the following manner.
(a) Officers who are in Class III of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed in
to Grade III under the new Service Minute
(b) Officers who are in Class II of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed in
to Grade II under the new Service Minute
(c) Officers who are in Class I of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed in
to Grade I under the new Service Minute
(d) Officers who are in Supra Grade of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed
in to Supra Grade under the new Service Minute
(e) The present salary of the officers or the increment date shall not be changed due to this absorption.
02 - 20
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.