

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of August 16, 2024
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 16.08.2024)
NATIONAL LAND COMMISSION
A
BILL
Ordered to be published by His Excellency the President
Price : Rs. 36.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
to provide for the establishment of the National Land Commission for
giving effect to the provisions of paragraph 3 of appendix II to the list I
(Provincial Council list) of ninth schedule to the Constitution and for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

<!-- page 2 -->

1National Land Commission
5
10
15
20
L.D. – O. 24/2024
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL LAND
COMMISSION FOR GIVING EFFECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF PARAGRAPH
3 OF APPENDIX II TO THE LIST I (PROVINCIAL COUNCIL LIST) OF NINTH
SCHEDULE TO THE CONSTITUTION AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -
1.  This Act may be cited as the National Land
Commission Act, No.   of 2024.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL LAND COMMISSION
2. (1) There shall be established a Commission called and
known as the National Land Commission (hereinafter referred
to as the “Commission”).
(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
that name.
3. (1) The Commission shall consist of the following
members:-
(a) ex officio members -
(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Lands or his
representative not below the rank of an
Additional Secretary of such Ministry;
Short title
Establishment
of the
National
Land
Commission
Constitution
of the
Commission

<!-- page 3 -->

National Land Commission2
5
10
15
20
25
(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Home Affairs or his
representative not below the rank of an
Additional Secretary of such Ministry;
(iii) the  Commissioner-General of Lands
appointed under section 3 of the Land
Development Ordinance (Chapter 464);
(iv) the Director-General of the Central
Environmental Authority appointed under
section 13 of the National Environmental Act,
No. 47 of 1980;
(v) the Director-General of Agriculture
appointed under section 3 of the Department
of Agriculture Ordinance (Chapter 441);
(vi) the Director-General of the Urban
Development Authority appointed under
section 13 of the Urban Development
Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978;
(vii) a representative of the Treasury not below
the rank of a Director-General nominated by
the Secretary to the Treasury;
(viii) the Conservator-General of Forests appointed
under section 58 of the Forest Conservation
Ordinance (Chapter 451); and
(ix) the Director-General of Wildlife
Conservation who is the Director-General
appointed for the purpose of the Fauna and
Flora Protection Ordinance (Chapter 469);

<!-- page 4 -->

3National Land Commission
5
10
15
20
25
(b) four members from among persons who have the
knowledge and expertise in the field of land,
agriculture, soil science, land use planning, urban
development, watershed management or plantation
agriculture, appointed by the President (hereinafter
referred to as the “appointed members”); and
(c) nine members who have experience and knowledge
in the subject of land, to represent the Provincial
Councils, nominated by each Provincial Council
(hereinafter referred to as the “nominated
members”).
(2) The President shall, having regard to the provisions
of section 8, appoint members referred to in paragraph (b) of
subsection (1).
(3) The Chairperson of the Commission shall be
appointed by the President from among the appointed
members.
4. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed,
nominated  or continuing as a member of the Commission, if
such person–
(a) is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(b) is or becomes a member of, Parliament, any
Provincial Council or any local authority;
(c) is a person who having been declared an insolvent
or a bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or any
other country is an undischarged insolvent or
bankrupt;
(d) is, under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country, found or declared to be of unsound mind;
Disqualification
from being a
member of
the
Commission

<!-- page 5 -->

National Land Commission4
5
10
15
20
25
(e) is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude
punishable with imprisonment for a term not less
than six months;
(f) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment
imposed by a Court of Sri Lanka or any other
country; or
(g) has any financial or other interest as is likely to
affect prejudicially, the discharge by him of his
functions as a member of the Commission.
5. Every appointed and nominated member of the
Commission shall, unless he vacates office earlier by death,
resignation or removal, hold office for a period of five years
from the date of his appointment or nomination, as the case
may be, and unless removed from office, shall be eligible for
re-appointment or re-nomination  for not more than one
further term, whether consecutive or otherwise.
6. (1) Any appointed member of the Commission may, at
any time, resign from  his office by letter in that behalf
addressed to the President, and such resignation shall take
effect from the date on which the resignation is accepted in
writing by the President.
(2) The President may, for reasons assigned therefor,
remove any appointed member from office. An appointed
member who has been removed from office shall not be
eligible for re-appointment as a member of the Commission
or in any other capacity.
(3) In the event of vacation of office by death, resignation
or removal from office of any appointed member, the
President shall, having regard to the provisions of paragraph
(b) of subsection (1) and subsection (2) of section 3, appoint
Term of
office of the
appointed
and
nominated
members of
the
Commission
Removal,
resignation
etc., of
appointed
members
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5National Land Commission
5
10
15
20
25
another person to fill such vacancy, and such person shall
hold such office for the un-expired period of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.
(4) Where any appointed member of the Commission is
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office on
account of ill health or any other cause, or being absent from
Sri Lanka for a period of not less than three months, the
President shall, having regard to the provisions of paragraph
(b) of subsection (1) and subsection (2) of section 3, appoint
any other person to act in place of such member during his
absence.
(5) Where any appointed member of the Commission fails
to attend three consecutive meetings of the Commission
without notifying his absence in advance to the Chairperson,
such member shall be deemed to have vacated his office
from the date of such third meeting and  the President shall,
having regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) and subsection (2) of section 3, appoint another person
to fill such vacancy.
7. (1) Any nominated member of the Commission may be
removed from office by the Provincial Council which
nominated such member.
(2) Any nominated member of the Commission may, at
any time, resign from his office by letter in that behalf
addressed to the Chairman of the Provincial Council which
nominated him and the Chairperson of the Commission, and
such resignation shall take effect from the date on which the
resignation is accepted in writing by the Chairman of the
Provincial Council.
Removal,
resignation
etc., of
nominated
members

<!-- page 7 -->

National Land Commission6
5
10
15
20
25
(3) In the event of the vacation of office by death,
resignation or removal from office of any nominated member,
the respective Provincial Council shall, nominate another
person who has experience and knowledge in the subject of
land to fill such vacancy, and such person shall hold such
office for the un-expired period of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.
(4) Where any nominated member of the Commission is
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office on
account of ill health or any other cause, or being absent from
Sri Lanka for a period of not less than three months, the
respective Provincial Council shall nominate another person
to act in place of such member during his absence.
(5) Where any nominated member of the Commission
fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the Commission
without notifying his absence in advance to the Chairperson
of the Commission, such member shall be deemed to have
vacated his office from the date of such third meeting and
the respective Provincial Council shall nominate another
person who has experience and knowledge in the subject of
land to fill such vacancy.
8. (1) Every appointed member of the Commission shall
submit to the President a general disclosure of any financial
or other interests as at the time of appointment, before
assuming office as such member, in the prescribed form and
shall submit to the President such declaration once a year
during his term of office.
(2) A member of the Commission who is directly or
indirectly, interested in any contract, agreement or business
or any matter made or proposed to be made by the
Commission shall forthwith disclose the nature and extent
Appointed
members of
the
Commission
to disclose
any interest
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7National Land Commission
5
10
15
20
25
of his interest to the Commission and every such disclosure
shall be recorded in the minutes of the Commission and
such member shall not thereafter participate in any
deliberation or decision of the Commission with regard to
such contract, agreement, business or other matter.
(3) The Commission shall maintain a register or a record
of such interest as referred to in subsections (1) and (2), on
case-by case basis.
9. (1) The meetings of the Commission shall be held at
least once in every month or as is required for the purpose of
exercising, performing and discharging the powers, duties
and functions of the Commission specified in this Act.
(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Commission shall
be eleven members including the Chairperson.
(3) A meeting of the Commission may be held either –
(a) by the number of members who constitute a quorum
being assembled at the place, date and time
appointed for the meeting; or
(b) by means of audio-visual communication by which
all members participating and constituting a
quorum can simultaneously see and hear each
participating member during the meeting.
(4) All questions for decision at any meeting of the
Commission shall be decided by the vote of the majority of
members present and voting at such meeting. In the case of
an equality of votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition to
his vote, have a casting vote.
Quorum and
the meetings
of the
Commission

<!-- page 9 -->

National Land Commission8
5
10
15
20
25
(5) The Chairperson, if present, shall preside at every
meeting of the Commission. In the absence of the Chairperson
from any meeting of the Commission, any member elected
by the members present shall preside at such meeting of the
Commission.
(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,
the Commission may regulate the procedure to be followed
for the summoning and holding of meetings of the
Commission and the transaction of business at such meetings.
10. The Commission may act notwithstanding any
vacancy among its members, and any act or proceeding of
the Commission shall not be, or deemed to be, invalid by
reason only of the existence of any vacancy among its
members or any defect in the appointment of a member
thereof.
11. The members of the Commission shall be paid such
remuneration in such manner and at such rates as may be
determined by the President in consultation with the Minister
assigned the subject of Finance.
12. (1) The Commission may, whenever it considers
necessary, invite experts to any meeting of the Commission,
who have expertise on any subject which is dealt with by
the Commission at such meeting for the purpose of obtaining
their views on such subject matter for the effective discharge
of the functions of the Commission:
Provided however, the Commission shall have the
absolute discretion of accepting or rejecting the views of
such experts.
Acts or
proceedings
of the
Commission
deemed not
to be invalid
by reason of
any vacancy
Remuneration
of the
members of
the
Commission
Commission
to invite
experts to
meetings

<!-- page 10 -->

9National Land Commission
5
10
15
20
25
(2) The experts shall have no voting rights.
(3) The experts may be paid such honorarium as may be
determined by the Commission for attending meetings of
the Commission.
13. (1) The seal of the Commission shall be as determined
by the Commission.
(2) The seal of the Commission –
(a) may be altered in such manner as may be determined
by the Commission; and
(b) shall be in the custody of such person or persons as
the Commission may determine from time to time.
(3) The seal of the Commission shall not be affixed to
any instrument or document except with the sanction of the
Commission and in the presence of the Chairperson and one
other member of the Commission who shall sign the
instrument or document in token of their presence:
Provided however, where the Chairperson is unable to be
present at the time when the seal of the Commission is affixed
to any instrument or document, any other member of the
Commission authorized in writing by the Chairperson in
that behalf shall be competent to sign such instrument or
document in accordance with the preceding provisions of
this subsection.
(4) The Commission shall maintain a register of the
instruments and documents to which the seal of the
Commission has been affixed.
Seal of the
Commission

<!-- page 11 -->

National Land Commission10
5
10
15
20
25
PART II
POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION
14. (1) The powers, duties and functions of the
Commission shall be to–
(a) formulate the national policy with regard to the use
of State lands as specified in paragraph 3:1 of
APPENDIX II to the List I (Provincial Council List)
of the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution, based
on technical aspects but not on political or
communal aspects;
(b) lay down general norms in regard to the use of State
lands as specified in paragraph 3:3 of APPENDIX II
to the List I (Provincial Council List) of the Ninth
Schedule to the Constitution, having regard to
matters such as soil, climate, rainfall, soil erosion,
forest cover, environmental factors, economic
viability;
(c) carryout necessary surveys, inspections or
investigations relating to State lands and prepare
reports on them, in the formulation of the national
policy under paragraph ( a);
(d) open, maintain and operate current, savings or other
deposit accounts in any bank and, if necessary, to
close such accounts; and
(e) generally, to do such other acts or things incidental
or connected with powers, duties and functions of
the Commission.
Powers,
duties and
functions of
the
Commission

<!-- page 12 -->

11National Land Commission
5
10
15
20
25
(2) Upon the formulation of the national policy under
paragraph ( a) of subsection (1) by the Commission, the
Minister shall take steps to submit such national policy to
the Cabinet of Ministers for information, which shall be
published in the Gazette by the Minister and be published
on the official website of the Ministry of the Minister.
(3) The Commission may, in exercising, performing and
discharging, its powers, duties and functions under paragraph
(c) of subsection (1), authorize any employee of the
Commission to enter any State land at any reasonable time
of the day after giving three day’s prior notice in writing to
the owner or occupier of such State land.
15. (1) For the purposes of enabling the Commission to
exercise, perform and discharge any of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act, the Commission or any person
authorized in that behalf by the Commission may, by notice
in writing require any person to furnish to the Commission
or to the person authorized by the Commission, within such
period as shall be specified in the notice, such information
or document regarding the State lands as shall be specified
in such notice.
(2) It shall be the duty of any person who is required in
that regard by a notice under subsection (1), to furnish any
information or document within the period specified in such
notice, except where such person is prohibited from
furnishing such information or document under the
provisions of any other written law.
Information

<!-- page 13 -->

National Land Commission12
5
10
15
20
25
PART III
TECHNICAL SECRETARIAT
16. The National Land Commission shall have a Technical
Secretariat representing all the relevant disciplines as
specified in paragraph 3:2 of APPENDIX II to the List I
(Provincial Council List) of the Ninth Schedule to the
Constitution, required to evaluate the physical as well as
the socio-economic factors that are relevant to natural
resources management.
PART IV
D
IRECTOR AND THE STAFF OF THE COMMISSION
17. (1) There shall be appointed by the Minister, in
consultation with the Commission, a Director of the
Commission (hereinafter referred to as the “Director”), whose
qualification and experience, the terms and conditions of
appointment shall be as prescribed.
(2) The Director shall, subject to the general directions
and supervision of the Commission –
(a) be charged with the administration of the affairs of
the Commission including the administration and
control of the staff;
(b) be responsible for the execution of all decisions of
the Commission; and
(c) carry out all such functions as may be assigned to
him by the Commission.
Director of
the
Commission
Technical
Secretariat

<!-- page 14 -->

13National Land Commission
5
10
15
20
25
(3) The Director shall be entitled to be present and speak
at any meeting of the Commission, but shall not be entitled
to vote at such meeting.
(4) The Director may, with the written approval of the
Commission, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate in writing to any officer  or employee of the
Commission, any of his powers, duties or functions under
the Act and the officer or employee to whom any such power,
duty or function is delegated shall exercise, perform or
discharge them subject to the directions of the Commission.
(5) The Minister may, in consultation with the
Commission remove the Director from the office –
(a) if he becomes permanently incapable of exercising,
performing or discharging his powers, duties or
functions under the Act;
(b) if he had done any act which, in the opinion of the
Commission, is of a fraudulent or illegal nature or
is prejudicial to the interests of the Commission; or
(c) if he has failed to comply with any directions issued
by the Commission.
(6) The office of the Director shall become vacant upon
the death, removal from office under subsection (5) or
resignation by letter in that behalf addressed  to the Minister
by the holder of such office.
(7)  If any vacancy occurs in the office of the Director, the
Minister may, in consultation with the Commission, appoint
an appointed member of the Commission to exercise, perform
and discharge the powers, duties and functions of the
Director, until an appointment is made under subsection (1).

<!-- page 15 -->

National Land Commission14
5
10
15
20
25
(8) The Director shall be paid such remuneration as may
be determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance.
18. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
Commission may appoint such officers and employees as
may be necessary for the efficient exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions.
(2) The Commission may, in respect of the officers and
employees appointed under subsection (1) –
(a) exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss such
officers and employees;
(b) determine the terms and conditions of employment
of such officers and employees; and
(c) fix the rates at which such officers and employees
shall be remunerated in keeping with relevant
guidelines of the Government and in consultation
with the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.
(3) The Commission shall not, however, appoint as an
officer or other employee of the Commission, any person
who has been dismissed from any previous position held by
such person in the public or private sector.
19. (1) At the request of the Commission, any officer in
the public service may, with the consent of that officer and
of the Public Service Commission be temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Commission for such period as may be
determined by the Commission, or with like consent, be
permanently appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Appointment
of the staff
of the
Commission
Appointment
of the
officers in
the public
service to the
staff of the
Commission
30

<!-- page 16 -->

15National Land Commission
5
10
15
20
25
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.
PART V
FINANCE
20. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund.
(2) There shall be credited to the Fund –
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted by
Parliament, from time to time, for the use of the
Commission; and
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Commission for the exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers, duties and  functions by
way of loans, donations, gifts, bequests or grants
from whatsoever source within or outside Sri Lanka:
Provided that, the Commission shall obtain
the prior written approval of the Department of
External Resources of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Finance, in respect of all
foreign grants, gifts or donations made to the
Commission.
Fund of the
Commission

<!-- page 17 -->

National Land Commission16
5
10
15
20
25
 (3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Commission in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
21. (1) The financial year of the Commission shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Commission shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other financial transactions of the Commission.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall
apply to the audit of accounts of the Commission.
PART VI
G
ENERAL PROVISION
22. (1) The Commission may, subject to such terms and
conditions as may be specified in writing, delegate to the
Chairperson or a member of the Commission or the Director
any of its powers, duties or functions under this Act, and the
Chairperson or such member or the  Director shall exercise,
perform or discharge such power, duty or function subject to
any special or general directions issued by the Commission.
(2) Notwithstanding any delegation made under
subsection (1), the Commission may exercise, perform or
discharge any such power, duty or function so delegated.
23. (1) The Commission may establish committees and
panels to assist it in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act, and may
appoint such persons as the Commission may deem necessary
to be members of any such committee or panel.
Financial
year and
audit of
accounts of
the
Commission
Delegation of
powers,
functions and
duties
Establishment
of
committees
and panels

<!-- page 18 -->

17National Land Commission
5
10
20
25
(2) A committee or panel shall carry out its functions and
fulfil its obligations as stipulated in the terms of reference
given to such committee or panel by the Commission.
(3) The Commission may, where it considers necessary,
co-opt as a member to a committee or panel any person who
possesses the required knowledge and experience in the
relevant field.
24. (1) The Commission shall, within six months of the
end of each financial year, submit to the Minister an annual
report on the activities carried out by the Commission. The
following documents shall be attached to such report-
(a) the audited accounts of the Commission for the
year along with the Auditor-General’s report; and
(b) a report of proposed activities for the year
immediately following the year to which such report
and accounts relate.
(2) The Minster shall table the annual report along with
the documents specified in subsection (1) in Parliament for
its consideration.
25. The Chairperson and  members of the Commission
and the Director,   officers and other employees of the
Commission and every expert consulted by the Commission
under section 12 and members of committees or panels
appointed under section 23, shall, before entering upon his
duties, sign a declaration pledging to observe strict secrecy
in respect of all matters connected with the affairs of the
Commission, which has come to his knowledge in the
exercise, performance and discharge of his powers, duties
and functions under this Act and by such declaration pledge
himself not to disclose any such matter except –
15
Annual
reports
Declaration
of secrecy
30

<!-- page 19 -->

National Land Commission18
5
10
15
20
(a) when required to do so by a court of law; or
(b) for the purpose of exercising, performing and
discharging the powers, duties and functions under
this Act or any other written law.
26. The Chairman and other members of the Commission,
the Director, officers and other employees of the Commission
shall be deemed to be public officers within the meaning
and for the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).
27. The Commission shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act,
No. 9 of 2023 and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.
28. Any person who –
(a) resists or obstructs any person in performing or
carrying out his functions or duties under
subsection (2) of section 14;
(b) fails or refuses to furnish any information or
document when requested to do so under section
15; or
(c) submits any information or a document under
section 15 knowing it to be false or misleading,
Members of
the
Commission,
the Director,
officers and
employees of
the
Commission
deemed to be
public
officers
Commission
deemed to be
a Scheduled
institution
for the
purpose of
the Anti-
Corruption
Act
Offences

<!-- page 20 -->

19National Land Commission
5
10
15
20
25
commits an offence and shall on conviction after summary
trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
one month or to both such fine and imprisonment.
29. (1) Any expenses incurred by the Commission in any
suit or prosecution brought by or against the Commission
before any Court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the
Commission and any costs paid to, or recovered by the
Commission in any such suit or prosecution shall be credited
to the Fund of the Commission.
(2) Any expenses incurred by any member of the
Commission, the Director or any officer or other employee
of the Commission in any suit or prosecution brought against
such person before any Court or Tribunal in respect of any
act which is done or is purported to be done by such person
under the provisions of this Act or on the direction of the
Commission shall, if the court holds that such act was done
in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of the Commission,
unless such expense is recovered by such person in such suit
or prosecution.
30. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to
be made under this Act.
(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
Expenses in
suit or
prosecution
to be paid
out of the
Fund
Regulations

<!-- page 21 -->

National Land Commission20
5
10
15
20
25
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall,
within three months from the date of its publication in the
Gazette, be placed before Parliament for approval. Every
regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of disapproval, but without
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
31. (1) The Commission may, subject to the provisions of
this Act, make rules in respect of any matter for which rules
are authorised to be made under this Act or all or any of the
following matters: -
(a) for the regulation of the procedure to be followed
for the summoning and holding of meetings of the
Commission and the transaction of business at such
meetings; and
(b) any other matter connected with the management
of the affairs of the Commission.
(2) Every rule made by the Commission shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of its publication or on such later date as may be
specified therein.
32. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires –
“Minister” means the Minister to whom the
subject matter of this Act is assigned under
Articles 44 and 45 of the Constitution;
“occupier” means a person in occupation of any
premises or having the charge,
Rules
Interpretation

<!-- page 22 -->

21National Land Commission
5
management or control thereof, whether
on his own account or as an agent of any
other, but does not include a lodger;
“premises” means any land together with any
building or part of a building standing
thereon; and
“written” shall include electronically generated
documents.
33. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
10

<!-- page 23 -->

National Land Commission22
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING