

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
THARUNYATA HETAK ORGANIZATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, N o. 7 OF 2011
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 23rd February, 2011]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 25, 2011

<!-- page 2 -->

1Tharunyata Hetak Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Tharunyata
Hetak
Organization.
General objects
of the
Corporation.
[Certified on 23rd February, 2011]
L.D.—O. (INC .) 9/2010.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  THARUNYATA  HETAK  ORGANIZATION
WHEREAS  an O rganization called and known as the
“Tharunyata Hetak Organization” has heretofore been
created for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the
said Organization according to the rules agreed to by its
members:
AND WHEREAS  the said Organization has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE  it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Tharunyata Hetak
Organization (Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of
this Act, such and so many persons as now are members of
the Tharunyata Hetak Organization (hereinafter referred to
as “the Organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the “Tharunyata Hetak Organization”
(hereinafter referred to as the “ Corporation”) and by that
name may sue and be sued and shall have full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be to—
(a) foster and promote mutual understanding, a spirit
of national consciousness, goodwill and friendship

<!-- page 3 -->

Tharunyata Hetak Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011
2
among the citizens of Sri Lanka and to promote
peace and harmony among the Sinhala, Tamil,
Muslim and Burgher youth in Sri Lanka;
(b) assist students who prepare for government
examinations by conducting lectures, seminars and
study tours;
(c) promote religious harmony, mutual understanding,
peaceful co-existence, spiritual development and
friendship among the people of Sri Lanka through
religious, cultural, social and economic interactions;
(d) assist needy students by providing them with books
and other equipment and school uniforms and to
grant scholarships to students who are in the
secondary and tertiary stage of their education;
(e) identify the talents of students at rural and
provincial levels in areas such as sports and music
and to encourage them to  excel in them by
providing the infrastructure required therefor;
(f) identify projects suitable for young school leavers
and assist them in carrying out such projects with a
view to training such youth to meet the competitive
demands for future employment;
(g) assist youth financially and otherwise in order to
develop their personal skills and aptitude and to
enable them to take up self employment;
(h) assist differently abled youth in developing their
personality;
(i) conduct awareness programmes for youth in order
to promote a tobacco, alcohol and a drug free society
and build a healthy, disciplined, patriotic and
humane generation;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Tharunyata Hetak Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011
(j) conduct programmes to discuss the problems faced
by the youth in different areas in Sri Lanka  due to
lack of infrastructure facilities such as water,
housing and roads and provide amenities to such
needy youth;
(k) organize and mobilize youth in voluntary activities
in order to find solutions to shortcomings in
infrastructure;
(l) identify the health requirements of the youth in
rural and remote areas and to conduct medical
camps and clinics in such areas and through such
camps and clinics supply medicines to the needy;
(m ) facilitate the exchange of  youth delegations with
other international organizations having similar
objects with a view to building friendship and
understanding between Sri Lanka and other
countries; and
(n) assemble and unite all youth under this
Organization with a view to promoting national
harmony and peace within Sri Lanka;
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to—
(a) open, operate and close bank accounts;
(b) borrow or raise money with or without security,
and to receive or collect grants and donations;
(c) invest any funds of the Corporation which are not
immediately required for the purpose of the
Corporation in a way that may be determined by
the Committee of Management;
(d) purchase, acquire, give on lease or hire,sell or
otherwise  obtain any movable or immovable
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Tharunyata Hetak Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011
4
property which may be required for the purpose of
the Corporation and which may lawfully be
acquired for those purposes and to deal with or
dispose of the same, as it may deem expedient with
a view to promoting the objects of the Corporation;
(e) appoint, employ and dismiss the employees
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation and pay them such remuneration as
may be determined by the Corporation;
(f) enter  into, perform or carry out, whether directly or
through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation; and
(g) appoint advisory councils, committees or sub
committees as and when necessary to carry out any
functions of the Corporation as may be determined
by the Committee of Management.
5. (1) The management, control and administration of
the affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions
of this Act and the rules of the corporation made under section
6 of this Act, be administered by a Committee of Management
consisting of not less than  five members.
(2) No act or proceeding of the Committee of Management
shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of a vacancy among its members or  any defect on the election
or nomination of a member thereof.
(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Committee of Management holding office
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act and shall continue to hold office until a new
Committee of Management is elected in accordance with
the rules made under section 6 of this Act.
Management of
the Affairs of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Tharunyata Hetak Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of the members present to make rules not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any other
written law, on all or any of the following matters—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of the office-bearers, the resignation
from, vacation of or removal from office of office-
bearers, and their powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Committee of
Management and its powers, duties and conduct
and the terms of office of members of the Committee
of Management;
(d) the powers, duties, functions and conduct of the
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Committee of
Management, the times, places, notices and agenda
of such meetings, the quorum thereof and the
conduct of business thereat;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the Corporation,
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added or rescinded at a like meeting and in the like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Tharunyata Hetak Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011
6
 (3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. The Secretary of the Committee of Management shall
keep and maintain a register containing the names of the
members of the Corporation.
8. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property both movable and immovabe, which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or othermwise, and all such property shall be
held by the Corporation for the purpose of this Act and
subject to the rules of the corporation made under section 6,
with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monies heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributions
or fees on behlf of the Corporation shall be deposited to the
credit of the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks
as the Committee of M anagement may determine.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund
or a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,
development or improvement of the property of the
Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
to defray any expenditure incurred by the corporation in the
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act.
(4) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Organisation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby
Register of the
Members of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
movable and
immovable
property.
Debts due by
and payable to
the
Organization.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Tharunyata Hetak Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Organisation on that day shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
11. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount due from such member as membership
fees.
12. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
 (2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
by a qualified auditor.
(3) In this section, “qualified auditor ” means —
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an A ccountant issued by
the Council of such  Institute; or
(ii)a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
13. The Seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
President and the Secretary or two other members of the
Corporation as may be decided by the committee of
Management who shall sign their names to the instrument
in token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the singing of any person as a witness.
Limitation of
Liability of
Members.
Accounts and
Audits.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

Tharunyata Hetak Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011
8
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains any property whatsoever, after the satisfaction of all
debts and liabilities, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
or transferred to some other institution having objects similar
to those of the Corporation, and which is or are by its rules
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such institution or institutions may be
determined by the members of the  Committee of
Management on or before the dissolution of the Corporation.
15. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic, any body politic or corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Tharunyata Hetak Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 7 of 2011
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.