

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA –10.02.2023
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PRoVIncIAL councILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
    Page
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...   —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... —
By-Laws ... 112
Posts - Vacant ...    —
                                                                                                         Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.  ...               ––
Notices calling for Tenders   ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
     
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
ATTENTiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette 03rd March, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17 February, 2023.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
111 - B 82428- 5,403  (02/2023)
wxl 2"319 - 2023 fmnrjdß ui 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'02'10
No. 2,319 - FRiDAy  FEBRuARy 10, 2023
N. B.— (i) The List of Jurors’ in the year 2023 of the Jurisdiction Areas of Galle District has been  published in Part Vi of this Gazette 
in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.
 
(ii) Part iV(A) of the Gazette No. 2,318 of 03.02.2023 was not published.
Note.—  Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of 
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 03, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

112
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 10.02.2023
by- Laws
mAWAneLLA PRADeShIyA SAbhA
by – Law regarding Private Wells
ThiS is to notify that I Tikiri Kobbekaduwa Governor of the  Sabaragamuwa Province has approved the By –law regarding 
private wells within authoritative area of Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha, prepared by the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha by 
virtue of powers vested in it under Section 122 read Section 126 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 and passed at its 
General meeting held on 11.05.2021 by virtue of powers vested under Section 123 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act read with 
Section 2 of Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989 and it will be effective within authoritative 
area of Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha from the date this notification is published in the 
Gazette.
 Tikiri kobbekaduwa,
 Governor,
 Sabaragamuwa Province.
At the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council,
On this 19
th January 2023.
By  LAw  ON  PRiV ATE  wELLS  iN  MAwANELLA  PRADEShiyA  SABhA  AuThORiTATiVE  AREA
1.  This by – law is enacted to regulate private wells. including the  prescribing of standards for the maintenance of 
the wells for regulatory purposes, to maintain the public health and safety of private wells maintained within the 
area of authority of Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha.
2.   This by law is known as the by – law of the private wells of Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha.
3.   No individual well shall be constructed in the authoritative area of Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha (hearing after 
refer to as the area) to get water for drinking or other purpose except as otherwise specified under a plan approved 
by the Chairman for construction under the plan for construction of all private wells.
4.  The Chairman shall not approve the construction of a well, if it can be located within 12.25 least distance meters 
from a toilet pit, garbage pit, a place prepared for garbage sucking in any mean of a garbage flowing drainage or 
toilet pit.
5.  When a well has been erected  for drinking or other domestic purposes, no person shall take any of the following 
measures within a distance of 15.25 meters from the well.
 i. Construction of a toilet pit
 ii. Construction of a funnel pit
 iii. Construction or maintenance of  a waste drian or similar waste disposal site
 iv. Maintenance of a animal farm or a place where waste is collected from the animal farm
 v. Engaging or deploying any activity of any nature that may cause chemicals to leak into the ground
 vi. Taking measures to create  a mine pit at a distance of 15.25 meters from the well limit
6.  Every well to be in the area of the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha and to obtain water for other domestic purposes 
as of the date of the enactment of this by – law and every well approved by the Chairman under this by – law shall 
be secured and maintained as follows:-

<!-- page 3 -->

113
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA –10.02.2023
 i. A wall of well should be constructed at least 1.5 meter high to prevent surface water flow from any distance 
and to protect the well users.
  however, when the surface area of the earth's surface is covered with a concrete roof, it is legal to determine 
the height above ground level.
 ii. Measures should be taken to prevent water leakage from the well below 4.5m from the well
 iii. Location of the well is more than 4.5 meters from the boundary of the land
 iv. Necessary measures having been taken to prevent leakage of ground water to depth of less than three meters 
below ground level.
 v. Maintenance of the well properly and drainage nea the well located within 15.25 meters
 vi. Removing water the maintaining it according to the appropriate health care measures as advised by the Medical 
Officer of Health or the Public Health Inspector
 vii. If the Well is a drinking water well, the well should be kept not to wash anything including  clothes using 
chemicals within 4.5 meters distance from the well.
 viii. Keeping the well covered with a suiatable cover so that the anything from outside does not fall to the well 
easily.
7.  Entrance of the Chairman, Public Health Inspector of Health, Medical Officer of Health, officer authorized by the 
Chairman from 6.00 a.m. 6.00 p.m. to check the existence of a well or any other activity which may affect the well 
in accordance with the provisions of this by – Law, shall enter the premises and obtaining samples for testing is 
legal.
8.  The Chairman shall prescribe a reasonable period of time to be given to the person who maintains or operates  the 
well or the water of the well in a manner that is not in accordance with the provisions of this by – law in the area 
of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha should submit notice informing the measures to be taken.
9.  Whereas an notice has been filed under clause, additional time may be granted by the Chairman  for compliance 
with the request and the time period shall be not more than 30 days.
10. it is an offense not to act in accordance with Section 8 of this by – law and after being convicted by a magistrate 
court of that offense, he has been subjected to a penalty under Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 
1987 and in continuation of the offence, subject to an additional penalty under that clause.
11. in this by – law, unless it is otherwise necessary to another meaning for the words.
The word "Chairman" shall  mean the person holding the office of Chairman of this Pradeshiya Sabha or the 
person, who perfroms the duties of the post.
"Pradeshiya Sabha"  shall mean Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha
"Heath Medical Officer" shall mean the person holding the office in any of the Divisional Health Medical Officers' 
Division in that period.
"Public Health Inspector" shall mean any person holding such office in any of the Public Health Inspectors area 
within the area of authority of the Puhlic health inspector in that period.
"Authorized Officer" shall mean any officer duly authorised by the Chairman in writing in that period.
12. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of this by law, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
02-193

<!-- page 4 -->

114
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 10.02.2023
mAWAneLLA PRADeShIyA SAbhA
by-Law regarding Vegetables and fruits Selling Places
ThiS is to notify that I, Tikiri Kobbekaduwa, Governor of the Sabaragamuwa Province has approved the by –law regarding 
vegetables and fruits selling places within authoritative area of Mawanalle Pradeshiya Sabha, prepared by the Mawanella 
Pradeshiya Sabha by virtue  of powers vested in it under Section 122 read with Section 126 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 
of 1987 and passed at its general meeting held on 11.05.2021, by virtue of powers vested under Section123 (1) of Pradeshiya 
Sabha Act read with Section 2 of Provincial Council (Consequental Provisions) Act No. 12 of 1989 and it will be effective 
within authoritative area of Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha from the date this notification is published in the 
Gazette.
 Tikiri kobbekaduwa,
 Governor,
 Sabaragamuwa Province.
At the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council,
On this 23.01.2023.
By – LAw  ON  ThE  SALE  OF  VEGETABLES  AND  FRuiTS  wiThiN  ThE  AuThORiTATiVE  AREA  OF 
MAwANELLA  PRADEShiyA  SABhA
 1. This by - law  is enacted to regulate, administrate and control the conducting or maintenance of vegetables or furits 
stalls  in the area of the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha.
 
 2. This by – law is called the by – law on the sale of vegetables  and fruits within the authoritative area of Mawanella 
Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter referred as the area)
 
 3. 3.1  No person shall maintain vegetable and fruit stalls for sale or vegetable stores unless he has a valid license  
 issued by the Chairman of the premises of any premises within the area of authority of the Mawanella 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
  3.2 A person who wishes to obtain a license in accordance with 3.1 above should apply through an application 
prepared in accordance with the first Schedule to this by law.
  3.3 The fee for a license under this Section shall be the Fee determined by the Sabha subject to the provisions of 
the Basic law.
 4.  The following conditions must be fulfilled in every premises applying for a license under Section 3(2) of this by-law
4.1  If the zoning has been done, construction work should have been carried out in accordance with the zoning 
process.
4.2  it should be constructed in accordance with the provisions of the urban Development Authority Act or the 
housing and urban Development Ordinance as applicable and they should be well constructed and maintained 
in good condition with a permanent construction materials.
4.3  All construction materials should not contain organisms and should not release toxic gases from the construction 
materials after construction.
4.4  The premises shall be designed to prevent Pests and pollutants from entering and staying
4.5  The place should be designed to facilitate proper monitoring of the hygienic condition of vegetables and fruits 
and to be easily and properly cleaned.
4.6  There should be  a floor made of waterproof, non – washable and non – slippery material without fine Opening 
and it should be easy to clean and disinfect.

<!-- page 5 -->

115
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA –10.02.2023
4.7  The walls should be made of non – absorbable and washable material with waterproofing and the walls should 
be free of holes and insects. The walls should be smooth to the height of the operation and those walls should 
be easy to clean and disinfect.
4.8  Surfaces that are in direct contact with vegetables and fruits  should be in good condition, durable and easy to 
clean, maintaining and disinfecting. These surfaces should be made of a smooth and non – absorbent material 
and the surface should be neutral to vegetable, fruit, washing chemicals disinfectants.
4.9  A ceiling or well – finished concrete roof should be placed above where vegetables and fruits are placed and it 
should be designed and built to minimize condensation and prevent mold and cracking and should be easy to 
clean to prevent solvent contamination and completed.
4.10  The windows should be easily cleaned and constructed to minimize the accumulation of dirt and they should 
also be equipped with removable and cleanable net through which the insects and flies unable to enter 
4.11 Adequate sanitary and drinking water  facilities for the use of employees should have been provided as needed.
4.12  Platform with suitable material should be installed on the feet at least 45cm from the ground so that it can be 
cleaned under the platform used for display or storage of vegetables and fruits and the minimum distance from 
the frame to the base of the platform should be 23cm. The platform should be covered so that no insects of any 
kind or rats can't stay under and should have placed at least 23cm away.
4.13 The premises should be provided with adequate and appropriate artificial or natural light or the ventilation and 
the electrical installations on top of vegetables and fruits stored and stored must be in safe condition. if they are 
broken the bulbs should be covered to prevent vegetables and fruits from joining.
4.14 if a fruit stall or storage area is used for fruit ripening, a separate cottage should be prepared
 5. Every person licensed under this by –law shall maintain the premises in accordance with the following conditions.
 
 5.1 Wastewater slope, where vegetables and furits are sold or disposed of at a display site, must be sucked up 
or taken to a central treatment unit with an approved system complete with compact drains or other suitable 
construction materials. Also use a water trap or an approved suitable method to prevent combustion between 
the premises and the final disposal.
 5.2 Adequate measures must be taken to prevent  waste water from following to a public sewer to a open site 
except to the method of sub-section 5 above.
 5.3 The pit should not be exposed to the exhaust or absorbent air and shall out contaminate with ground water.
 5.4 Waterproofing boards should be built to the proper standards.
 5.5 Constructed the suction above 5.1 mentioned must be constructed at least 25 meters away from any source of 
water in the suction.
 5.6 Everyone who works in the premises.
 i. The personal belongings and clothing should be placed in a designated location.
 ii. Vegetables and fruits should not be left in any place which is at risk of contamination
 iii. Ensure that all Vegetables and fruits stored in he premises are suitable for human consumption
 5.7 All equipment and tools used on the premises must be made of non – absorbent and non –sterile materials such 
as any toxin must be made of a substance that does not emit any odor or odor and is resistant to continuous 
cleaning and disinfection.
 5.8 The containers for collection of non – consumable materials and waste should be made of metal or other non 
leakly material to prevent leakage. They should be easily cleaned and should be well closed.
 5.9 w aste collection equipment and tools shall be distinguishable and shall not be used for any other purpose.

<!-- page 6 -->

116
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 10.02.2023
 5.10 Calibrated temperature gauges or recording equipment shall be provided for all facilities for cooling and 
freezing at all times.
5.11 The equipment and all other physical facilities of the institution should be maintained in good condition
5.l2  Adequately fitting generator should be maintained a suitable manner for power failure
5.13 Edible  fruits and vegetables must be washed with water before being sold at the point of need
5.14 The Licensee shall store vegetables and fruits in the premises taking into consideration the provisions of 
any written law applicable at that time, as well as the advice given by the competent authority, as well as the 
manufacture's advice, from time to time.
5.15 Do not use light bulbs or any other substitute to make the vegetables and fruits look natural in a way that will 
mislead the consumer on the premises.
5.16 Adequate precautionary  measures should be taken to prevent contamination of vegetales and fruits with water, 
washing agents, disinfectants and liquids on display and for disinfection of stalls and storages for sale. Any 
residues of these cleansers should be washed several times with potable water if the surface is in contact with 
food.
5.17 Wrapping and packaging of vegetables and fruits shall not be contaminated with food and shall be stored in 
such a manner that the wrapping materials shall not be compacted.
5.18 Exhibit places and stores for sale of vegetables and fruits should be free from pasets and an efficient and 
continuous program for pest control should be maintained.
5.19 The licensee shall ensure that those who work in a licensed institute are provided with proper training on 
hygiene activities relating to their work.
5.20 Licensees must have knowledge of food hygiene policies and  inspections to determine potential risks and take 
action to address any deficiencies.
5.21 Damaged vegetables and fruits should not be stored together with good quality vegetables and fruits. in any 
case, it is the duty of the licensee to immediately export the vegetables and fruits to the proper disposal 
containers once the vegetables and fruits have been indetified.
5.22 The Licensee shall make sure that it is not prepared in any manner to prepare for the consumption of fruits and 
vegetables which in any case cause spoilage.
 6. Chairperson an officer authorized by the President a Medical Officer of Health or a Public Health inspector to sell 
vegetables or fruits for sale, or to store or sell any vegetables or fruits shall be legally entitled to receive its market 
value no licensee shall refuse or interfere with such Purchase.
 7.  Everyone employed in the Licensed Place is in good health to work before being employed and the certificate should 
be in accordance with the format in the second schedule of this by law. The medical examination shall be conducted 
from time time as determined by the Medical Officers of the relevant area and from time to time as specified clinically 
or by Epidemiology.
 8.   If a person of the place of selling vegetable and fruits is infected with any skin disease, contagious disease or a disease 
infected by touch, the licensee shall be informed and the vegetable is sold, directly or indirectly, no work should be 
allowed. The infected person should be informed by the infected person if he/she is infected.
 9.  All persons working in the premises shall not eat foods vegetables, and do the activities such as chewing gum, chewing 
beetle and coughing or touching he nose or engaging in such activities.
 10.  w aste management on the premises should be as follows :
 i. Licensed organizations should have an efficient and appropriate waste disposal system and it should be maintained 
in good working conditions and repair conditions.

<!-- page 7 -->

117
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA –10.02.2023
 ii. The waste must  be disposed of in accordance with the waste Management Program implemented by the 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
 iii. it is the responsibility of the Licensee to minimize the daily waste generation at the Licesing institutions.
 11.  when there are waste disposal facilities in licensed place garbage shall be disposed of in accordance with the conditions 
stipulated by the Health Officers of the Public Health Inspector with the approval of the Chairman of the Pradeshiya 
Sabha.
 12.  The Licensee shall provide every reasonable support to the Chairman or the Medical Officer of Health or the Public 
Health Inspector or any other officer authorized by the Chairman at any reasonable time to inspect the provisions of 
this by law.
 13.  Any vegetable or fruit which is deemed unfit for human consumption by the Chairman or any authorized officer during 
the inspection of the premises may be destroyed without compensation if such officer forbids it.
 14. The Sinhala, Tamil and English copy of this by – law shall be exhibited in a publicly visible place within the premises 
subject to a license under this by – law.
 15.  All licenses issued under this by – law shall be expiring on the 31
st of December of the issued year unless they have 
been previously revoked..
 16.  The Chairman shall notify by a notice ordering the Licensee of such premises in any premises where a permit has 
been issued, in violation of the provision of this clause or in compliance with the requirements of such place to do 
all that is necessary to bring the place up to the standards before the specified date. The time period provided by such 
advertisement shall be limited to a maximum of 30 days.
 17.  Any license holder who receives a notice as set out in section 16 of ths article shall act in such manner as may be 
prescribed by such license prior to the date specified by such notice. The Chairman shall have the authority to extend 
the time specified in such notice upon a ressonable written request by the clinet. The person must not exceed fourteen 
days.
 18.  Any  Licensee who has received a Notice as set forth in Section 16 hereof shall have cancelled the Licensed issued to 
the relevant premises in the event of failure to act in the manner specified in that Notice or before the Extended Date 
shall be legalized.
 19.  Sub – Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 provides that it is an offence to maintain premises 
without a permit under this by – law or to violate any of the provisions of the by –law Be subject to a fine a person who 
has been convicted of an offence by a court of competent jurisdiction over that offense has been liable to a fine and 
Every day that the violation is continued after a written notice is given by the Chairman, the Medical officer of Health 
or the Public Health Inspector, with the attention of the violater continuing for the same, an additional fine of the said 
clause shall be liable.
20. in this by –law unless it is otherwise necessary to another meaning for the words.
The word "Chairman" to the person holding the office of Chairman of this Pradeshiya Sabha or the person, who 
performs the duties of the post.
"Pradeshiya Sabha" shall mean Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Health Medical Officer" shall mean the person holding the office in any of the Divisional Health Medical Officers' 
Division in that period.
"Public Health Inspector" shall mean any person holding such office in any of the Public Health Inspectors are within 
the area of authority of the Public health inspector in that period.

<!-- page 8 -->

118
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 10.02.2023
"Authorized Officer" shall mean any officer duly authorized by the Chairman in writing in that period.
"Licensee" shall mean on entity or person or persons,who have obtained a license under this by law.
"Pesticides" shall mean pesticides approved by the Registrar of Pesticides of Sri Lanka.
"Cleaning" shall mean the removal of soil, dirty food, Greece, garbage or other harmful external substances deposited.
"Contaminats" shall mean certain subtances or other substances which may effect the safety or suitability of vegetables 
or fruits.
"Combustion" shall mean combining or causing combustion of vegetables and fruits.
"Disinfectant" shall mean reducing the amount of microorganisms in the environment through chemical agents or
  Physical means to the level that does not reduce the safety or appropriateness of food.
"Drinking water" shall mean water sufficiently free of contaminants to cause disease or adverse physical effects and 
Contains bacterial and chemical conditions that meet national standards,
"Reasonable Time" shall mean to a time when the license work or related work is done.
21. if there is any compatibility between Sinhala. Tamil and English texts of this by – law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
FiRST SChEDuLE
Application for obtaining a trade license for the year
 1. Name of the applicant :-
 2. Personal Address :-
 3. National identity Card Number :-     Land Phone :-
 4. Phone Number : Mobile
 5. Nature of Business :-
 6. y ear of Commencement :-
 7. Business Address :-
 8. Grama Niladhari Division :-
 9. Assessment Number :-
 10. if the business is start – up business, whether prior approval has been obtained – (if obtained, a photocopy should 
be attached)
 11. Business Name Registration Number, Reference Number :
 12. Business Manager or Agent
 i.  Name and Personal Address :-
 ii. National identity Card Number :-
 iii. Phone Number : Mobile :      Land phone :-
i certify that the above information is true and correct.
i request you to issue a Trade License for the year of…..................................... i agree with the existing rules on this.
.........................................
Date:- Signature of the applicant.

<!-- page 9 -->

119
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA –10.02.2023
For Office use
Revenue Inspector,
Kindly request to provide you with your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a trade license in respect of 
the application mentioned in the background.
........................................
Date – Secretary,.
Secretary
Recommended/Not recommended issuing license.
........................................
Date :- Revenue inspector
Medical Officer of Health
Kindly request that your observations and recommendations for the issuance of a trade permit be issued promptly.
........................................
Date: Secretary
Medical Officer of Health
Compliance with by – laws and other rules and regulations  i will report for the recommendation of issuing a license.
........................................
Date – Public health inspector.
Secretary,
i recommend the issuance of a permit for the relevant place as per above application (if not recommended state the reason.)
 .......................................
 Medical Officer of Health.
Date :........................................
Second Schedule
Photograph
Medical Certificate issued to the worker in a vegetable and fruit selling place.
I…................... Medical Officer of Health of….......................Area do hereby certify that I examined physically after  a 
laboratory test, Mr/Mrs… bearer of National identity Card number.
….......................................And ensure that he/she is not suffering from any communicable disease or vector and he/she does 
not have any inquries, skin infections, ulcers or diarrhea that may be a threat or future threat to the food security.
 Medical Officer of Health
 (Official Seal)
Date :............................
02-194
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.