

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1149
1149
wxl 1"764 - 2012 cqks 22 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'06'22
No. 1,764 – FRIDAY , JUNE 15, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1152
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1153
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th June, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th June,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,763 of 15.06.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1150
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1151
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1152
Posts – Vacant
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Post of Assistant Investigating Officer
APPLICATIONS are invited for the above post.
1. Qualifications :
(i) Age limit.– Not less than 21years and not more than 35
years (The upper age limit will not be applicable to those
who are already in the Public Service).
2. Educational and other qualifications :
(a) An Attorney-at-Law who has been in active practice for
a period not less than 4 years ; or
(b) An officer in class II of the Court's Registrars' service of
Sri Lanka ; or
(c) An Officer with at least 07 years of experience in legal
divisions under the state, with 05 years of service in
Class I of the General Clerical Service or an officer with
at least 12 years of experience under the state with 10
years of service in segment "A" of the General Clerical
Service.
Note .– Preference will be given to those who have
experience in court procedure, accounting,
administration and auditing.
3. Salary scale.– According to Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006, SL 1-2006 Step 08 - Rs. 27,450 -03 x 645 - 8 x 790 -
17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (monthly). The initial salary is Rs. 27,450
(Efficiency Bar prior to monthly salary of Rs. 31,755).
Those who have completed 45 years of and who have reached
the required salary step will be released from the Efficiency Bar.
4. This post is permanent and pensionable.
5. Those who possess the required qualifications shoud prepare
their applications using either side of the paper of 11 1/2" x 8 1/2"
in size, as per specimen form given below and send them to reach
me on or before 13.07.2012.
Note.– To ensure that applciations are duly received in the
office, applicants or to send them by registered post.
6. Every applicant must be –
(a) Of excellent character and physically fit ; and
(b) A citizen of Sri Lanka.
7. Applicants will be required to produce any or all of the
following documents when called upon to do so :–
(a) Certificate of birth ;
(b) Highest educational certificate ;
(c) Certificates of professional qualifications ;
(d) Certificates of highest examination passed in Sinhala/
Tamil/English ; and
(e) Certificates in support of experience in court procedure,
accounting auditing, administration and investigation and
disciplinary matters.
8. Applications from officers in the Public/Corporation service
should be forwarded through the heads of Department/Corporations.
9. Applications and any other communications relating there to
must be addressed to the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission
and not to any other officers in this office.
10. Applications will be acknowledged if any applicant does
not receive an acknowledgment with in one week, he should notify
the Secretary Judicial Service Commission.
11. The attention of applicants is also drawn to the general
conditions applicable to appointments in the Public Service published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
M
ANJULA THILAKARATNE,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
Colombo 12,
06th May, 2012.
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT
INVESTIGATING OFFICER
01. Name in full (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Of ficial Address :–––––––––––.
03. Race :–––––––––––.
04. (i) Date of birth :–––––––––––.
(ii) Age :–––––––––––.
05. (i) Sex :–––––––––––.
(ii) Married, Single, Widow or Widower :–––––––––––.
(iii) If husband/wife is employed in public/Corporation
Service/Private Institution, particulars there of :––––––.
06. Educational/Professional Qualifications (giving dates) :–––––.
07. Full particulars relating to (ii), (a), (b) and (c) and note in Para
2 of the Gazette Notification (giving dates and periods) :
–––––––––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1153
08. (i) If an Attorney-at-law, date of enrolment :–––––––––––.
(ii) Period of active practice (giving dates) :–––––––––––.
09. If employed in Public/Corporation Service, full service
particulars (giving dates/periods) :–––––––––––.
10. Highest examination passed :-
(i) Sinhala :–––––––––––.
(ii) T amil :–––––––––––.
(iii) English :–––––––––––.
11. Personal referees :–––––––––––.
(They should be persons of standing who know you well)
(Not applicable to those who employed in Public/Corporation
Service)
(i) Name :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Occupation :–––––––––––.
Period during which he has known you.
(ii) Name :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Occupation :–––––––––––.
Period during which he has known you.
I certify that the particulars furnished by me in the application
one true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
C
ERTIFICATE OF HEAD OF DEPARTMENT/CORPORATION
The particular furnished by the officer named ....................... in
Para 09 hereof are correct according to his/her personal life. If
selected for the above post, he/she can/cannot be released.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department/
Corporation.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–880
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to follow a Pre-Service Professional
Course in Teacher Education - 2013
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from those with requisite academic qualifications and Eligibility to follow a Three Year Pre-Servic e
Professional Course in Teacher Education in National Colleges of Education.
2.0 Eligibility : Every applicant should –
2.1 Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2.2 Possess an excellent character and sound physical and mental health ;
2.3 Age :
2.3.1 Should not be more than 25 years of age as on 01.01.2013 ;
2.3.2 Clergy who apply for the course of Catholicism/Christianity should not be more than 30 years of age as on 01.01.2013;
2.3.3 Buddhist Monks/Buddhist Nuns who apply for the Course of Buddhism should not be more than 27 years of age as
on 01.01.2013 ;
2.4 Should be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications :
3.1 Should have passed three subjects in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2011.  (Two passes only for
estate workers children for Sri Pada National College of Education).
(Applicants for Technological Studies Course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.12 and applicants for Christianity/
Chatholicism course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.9 ).
3.2 Should have passed  six core subjects  including Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil Language with three Credit passes at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings. (Should have passed at least 5 Core subjects at the first sitting). Core

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1154
subjects - (i) Religion, (ii) First Language, (iii) English, (iv) Mathematics, (v) Aesthetic subjects (Art, Dancing, Music,
Drama and Theatre, Literature (Sinhala, Tamil, English, Arabic), (vi) Science and Technology, (vii) Social Studies and
History, (viii) Technical subjects (Agriculture, Commerce and Accounts, Handy craft)).
Compulsroy subjects of Preliminary Piriven final examination are (i) Sinhala, (ii) Paali, (iii) Sanskrit, (iv) English,
(v) Mathematics, (vi) Thripitaka.
3.3 If the Special requirements in the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination mentioned under 3.2 have not been completed in two sittings,
they should have been completed at the third sitting. (Special requirements will be considered only if the applicants have
completed the basic qualifications indicated at 3.1 and 3.2 above. If Special qualifications have not been especially mentioned;
only the qualifications mentioned under 3.1 and 3.2 will be considered).
3.4 English Language proficiency for the English Language Course and English Medium Courses.
3.4.1 Those who apply for English Medium courses except for English Language Course should have obtained a Credit
pass in English/Ordinary pass in English Literature at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination ;
3.4.2 Applicants for the English Language Course should have obtained Very Good Pass in English Language/Credit Pass
in English Literature. A Credit for English or an Ordinary Pass for English Literature at G .C.E. (O/L) will be sufficient
if the applicants have passed English Language as a subject in G .C.E. (A/L). However, in case of obtaining the same
mark in proficiency test by two or more applicants, the results obtained at the G. C. E. (O/L) at the first sitting will
be considered. Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a Distinction pass, 03 marks for a Very Good pass, 02 marks
for a Credit pass and 01 mark for an Ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the
total number of marks obtained. The award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects.
3.4.3 Although the Courses on  Information Communcation Technology and Western Music are conducted in the English
Medium, the applicants are selected from those who have appeared for G.C.E. (A/L) in Sinhala or Tamil or English
Medium concerning the number of vacancies existing in Sinhala and Tamil Medium Schools.
3.4.4 Applicants who are called for Art/Dancing/Music/Drama and Theater will be granted points for the grades obtained
in G. C. E. (O/L) for the relevant subject as given below :
A Grade - 0.5
B Grade - 0.3
C Grade - 0.2
S Grade - 0.1
3.5 Effective date of all the Educational/V ocational certificates should be on or before the closing date of applications.
4.0 Educational Qualifications and Other Special Requirements :
Educational qualifications and other special requirements applicable to each Course in National Colleges of Education are as
follows :
4.1 Course No. 01 - Primary Education (Sinhala)
Primary Education (Tamil)
4.1.1 Three passes including Sinhala/Tamil Language at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2011 (Two passes including
Sinhala/Tamil Language only for estate workers children for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.1.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core subjects including Credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, English
and Mathematics.
Note.– * Applicants selected to follow Primary Education course should serve continuously in primary section in
the government schools after completing the course.
4.2 Course No. 02 - Science (Sinhala)
Science (Tamil)
Science (English)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1155
4.2.1 Three passes in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2011 in the following subjects :  Physics,
Chemistry and Biology (Two passes among the above subjects including Biology for Sri Pada National College of
Education only for estate workers children) ;
and
4.2.2 Passed at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Mathematics 32 or Mathematics 42
Note.–  Science (English Medium) Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and appeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and apeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
Sinhala/Tamil Medium. If 50% of the qualified applicants as per (i) is not available layman applicants will be selected
as per (ii).
4.3 Course No. 03 - Mathematics (Sinhala)
Mathematics (Tamil)
Mathematics (English)
4.3.1 Three passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2011  in the following subjects :
Mathematics, Combined Mathematics or Higher Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry. (Two passes in one of the
following subjects including Mathematics, Combined Mathematics and Higher Mathematics only for estate workers
children for Sri Pada National College of Education) ;
and
4.3.2 Passed at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Science 34.
Note.–  Mathematics  (English Medium) Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 and appeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 and apeared for G .C.E. (A/L) in the
Sinhala/Tamil Medium. If 50% of the qualified applicants as per (i) is not available layman applicants will be
selected as per (ii).
4.4 Course No. 04 - Physical Education (Sinhala)
Physical Education (Tamil)
4.4.1 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2011 ;
and
4.4.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Health and Physical Education
and Mathematics ;
and
4.4.3 Achievements /performances of the recognized Track and Field Athletics and Organized Sports. A maximum of 75
marks will be awarded for three various games/events in the following priority order.
PRIORITY ORDER OF SPORTS /EVENTS
Se. No. Levels/Subjects Single Team Place/Grade Marks
1 International Level single —— 1 25
2 International Level single —— 2 24
3 International Level single —— 3 23
4 International Level —— team 1 22
5 International Level —— team 2 21
6 International Level —— team 3 20
7 International Level single team —— 19
  Representation

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1156
8 National Level single —— 1 18
9 National Level single —— 2 17
10 National Level single —— 3 16
11 National Level —— team 1 15
12 National Level —— team 2 14
13 National Level —— team 3 13
14 Provincial Level single —— 1 12
15 Provincial Level single —— 2 11
16 Provincial Level single —— 3 10
17 Provincial Level —— team 1 09
18 Provincial Level —— team 2 08
19 Provincial Level —— team 3 07
20 Regiment Sergeant Major —— —— —— 06
/Warrant Officer 1
21 Presidents’ Scout/Girl Guide —— —— —— 06
22 Sergeant Major /Warrant —— —— —— 05
Officer 2
23 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 1 06
Divisional Secretariat Level
24 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 2 05
Divisional Secretariat Level
25 District Level/Zonal / single —— 3 04
Divisional Secretariat Level
26 District Level/Zonal / —— team 1 03
Divisional Secretariat Level
27 District Level/Zonal / —— team 2 02
Divisional Secretariat Level
28 District Level/Zonal / —— team 3 01
Divisional Secretariat Level
4.4.4 Additional points will be granted for the grade obtained in Health and Physical Education at G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination as given below : .
A Pass -  05
B Pass -  03
C Pass -  02
S Pass -  01
Note.–
(i) Recognized Sports Competitions (International).–  Participation at International Competitions representing
Sri Lanka National Teams or School National Sports Teams (except Chess, Carom and Draught) through
Ministry of Education / Ministry of Sports and their registered Sports Associations (Participation in
International Competitions on personal basis by school sports teams will not be considered) ;
(ii) Recognized Sports Competitions .– National level competitions organized by the Ministry of Education/
Ministry of Sports/National Youth Services Council ;
Provincial level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education /Provincial Ministry of
Sports /National Youth Services Council ;
District Level Competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education/Provincial Ministry of Sports
/National Youth Services Council ;
Zonal level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education ;
Se. No. Levels/Subjects Single Team Place/Grade Marks

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1157
(iii) 1st, 2nd and 3rd places in “A” Grade competitions organized by Sports Associations registered  under the
Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Education will only be given priority in order ;
(iv) Certificates gained for Sports performance/achievements within the preceding five years before the closing
date of the application will only be valid ;
Marks will be awarded to the highest certificate obtained for the same event in the same year out of three
certificates.
4.5 Course No. 05 - English
4.5.1 Passed any Three Subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2011 including English Language (Not General
English) with credit pass for English Language/Ordinary pass in English Literature and Six core subjects including
Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination/London G. C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
 or
4.5.2 Passed any Three Subjects in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 and three passes including
English at London G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 and credit pass in English Language/Ordinary pass
in English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination/London G . C. E. (O/L) examination having passed six core subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics ;
or
4.5.3 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011  and passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in
six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics with a very good pass in English Language/
Credit pass in English Literature.
Note.–
(i) Priority will be given to those who qualify under 4.5.1 and 4.5.2 they do not need to sit for the proficiency test. Their
qualifications should be proved at the interview ;
(ii) Applicants who are qualified under 4.5.3 will be selected through the Proficiency Test.
(iii) Applicants for English course from Colombo, Kalutara, Gampaha and Kandy must sign an agreement on their
willingness to get appointment in secretarial divisions in difficult districts before they enroll to the college.
4.6 Course No. 06 - Buddhism
Buddhist Priests/Nuns and the Laity can apply for the Course of Buddhism. All requirements should have been
completed in Year 2011 or before. (Laity candidates should have completed all educational qualifications in their laity
name in Year 2011 or before).
4.6.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2011 with three subjects including two out of Buddhism,
Buddhist Civilization, Pali and Sinhala ;
4.6.2 Passed Pracheena, Preliminary examination (only for Buddhist Priests/Nuns) ;
4.6.3 Passed Bauddha Dharmacharya Examination ;
4.6.4 Passed Daham School Final Examination ;
4.6.5 Passed  G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Buddhism and
Mathematics/passed Preliminary Pirivena Final Examination in six (06) compulsroy subjects with Sinhala
Language, Mathematics and Tripitaka Dharma.
Note.–
(i) Priority order in selection –
(a) Applicants having all certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.2, 4.6.3, 4. 6. 4 and 4.6. 5 ;
(b) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.2 and 4.6.5 ;
(c) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.3 and 4.6.5 ;
(d) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.4 and 4.6.5 ;
(e) Applicants having certificates 4.6.1 and 4.6.5.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1158
4.7 Course No. 07 - Hinduism
4.7.1 Three passes in one sitting including one of the  following subjects.– Hinduism, Hindu Civilization and
Sanskrit in the G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 ;
4.7.2 Candidates having Shaiva Siddhantha Pandithar Certificate ;
4.7.3 Candidates having Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;
4.7.4 Candidates having Ilang Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;
4.7.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Hinduism.
Note.– Priority order in Selection
(a) Candidates having 4.7.1 and all other certificates ;
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.4, 4.7.5 and one certificate out of other two ;
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.5 and one certificate out of other three ;
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1., 4.7.5
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2011 or earlier.
4.8 Course No. 08 – Islam
4.8.1 Three passes including one of the following subjects - Islam, Islamic Civilization and Arabic in the
G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011;
4.8.2 Passed all subjects in Al-Alim Preliminary Examination and passed all subjects in Al-Alim Final Examination ;
4.8.3 Having Moulavi Certificate and passed all subjects Al-Alim Preliminary Examination ;
4.8.4 Having Moulavi Certificate ;
4.8.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core subjects with Tamil Language, Mathematics and Islam.
Note.– Priority order in Selection –
(a) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.2, 4.8.3, 4.8.4 and 4.8.5 ;
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.3, 4.8.4. and 4.8.5 ;
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1, 4.8.4 and 4.8.5 ;
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.8.1 and 4.8.5.
All the requirements mentioned above should have been completed in 2011 or earlier.
4.9 Course No. 09 – Catholicism/Christianity (Sinhala)
                           Catholicism/Christianity (Tamil)
4.9.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 and passes in six (06) core subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L) examination ;
and
Ordinary pass for Christianity in G. C. E. (A/L) examination or Credit pass for Catholicism/Christianity in
G. C. E. (O/L) examination ;
and
The certificate of Catholic Bishop for Catholics to be a teacher of Catholicism and the certificate of National
Christian Council for Christians to be a teacher of Christianity.
4.9.2 Selection of Catholicism candidates will be made by giving priority in the order of following qualifications :
4.9.2.1 Four year course certificate on Theology (BTH) ;
or
4.9.2.2 Christian Philosophy certificate conducted by the National Seminary ;
or
4.9.2.3 Three year religious education course certificate in Deva Dharma Nikethanaya ;
or

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1159
4.9.2.4 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy Sect that the candidate has successfully
completed the study of the religious education and training course (Novitiate) to become a member
of the clergy ;
or
4.9.2.5 Passed the Catholic Dharmacharya examination conducted by the National Catechetical Centre
Namely Dharmacharya Hons/(Dahamguru 3) ;
or
Dharmacharya Special (Dahamguru 2) ;
or
Dharmacharya Ordinary (Dahamguru 1) ;
4.9.2.6 Passed Christianity in G . C. E. (A/L) examination.
4.9.3 Selection of candidates for Christianity will be made according to the qualifications indicated in the following
order :
4.9.3.1 Should have obtained Dharma Vedi Diploma conducted by Lanka Theological College, Pilimathalawa.
4.9.3.2 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge conducted by National Christianity
Council.
Note.– (i) To select 85% from all admissions, Catholic candidates qualified under 4.9.1 will be selected on the
serial order shown under 4.9.2 When 85% of Catholic candidates have not applied, Christian candidates
will be selected for such vacancies.
(ii) 15% of the total number of admissions will be selected from among Christian candidates qualified under
4.9.1 according to the serial order shown under 4.9.3. If 15% Christian candidates have not applied,
Catholic candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
(iii) 40% of the total number of admissions will be selected from Catholic and Christian Clergy. If the
required percentage (40%) of vacancies cannot be filled out of clergy, selection will be made from laity
applicants.
(iv) In case of sufficient applicants of the Clergy who have passed G. C. E. (A/L) in 2011  are not available,
those (clergy), who have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) examination immediately preceding the Years 2010,
2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006 will be selected considering the closest year to 2011. If 40% of the Clergy
candidates have not applied layman candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
4.10 Course No. 10 - Special Education (Sinhala)
                           Special Education (Tamil)
4.10.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 ;
and
4.10.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six  core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.
Note.– The applicants of this course are considered to appoint as teachers to teach those of special educational
needs such as visually-impairments, hearing-impairments, multi-impairments, autism, learning difficulties
and intellectual deficiencies, Hence, only those who sign an agreement to serve only in these special units
where the impaired children learn, should apply.
4.11 Course No. 11 - Agriculture and Food Technology (Sinhala)
                         Agriculture and Food Technology (Tamil)
4.11.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011  with Agriculture, Biology and Chemistry ;
and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) in six core (06) subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language with credit passes for
Mathematics and Science.
4.11.2 Passed three subjects including Agriculture/Agricultural Technology/Bio - Resource Technology / Food
Technology at  G . C. E. (A/L) examination in year 2011 ;
and

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1160
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) in six (06) core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language with credit passes for
Mathematics, Science and Agriculture/Agriculture and Food Technology.
Note.– Priority order for selection :
(a) Applicants who posses a certificate for successfully completing an agriculture course for one year or more in
a recognized Government Agriculture College in addition to 4.11.1 qualifications.
(b) Applicants qualified under 4.11.1.
(c) Applicants qualified under 4.11.2.
4.12 Course No. 12- Technical Studies (Sinhala)
                         Technical Studies  (Tamil)
4.12.1 Design and Technology :
4.12.1.1 Passed three subjects including one of the following components in Hard Technology at G . C. E. (A/L)
examination in Year 2011.
(i) Civil Technology,
(ii) Mechanical Technology,
(iii) Electrical, Electronic and Information Technology ;
or
4.12.1.2 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 ;
and
4.12.1.3 Passed six (06) core subjects at G. C. E. (O/L) examination including Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil
Language, and one subject out of the following subjects. Construction Technology//Mechanical
Technology/ Electric and Electronic Technology Design and Technology.;
and
4.12.1.4 Followed and successfully completed (in not less than 10 months) a Technical Course which is
relevant to the subject area, conducted by a Government approved Technical College/National
Apprentice Board/V ocational Training Authority/Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion
Department/Other Institutions Governed by Central/Provincial Ministries.
4.12.2 Crafts and Arts :
4.12.2.1 Passed any three subjects at G .  C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 ;
and
4.12.2.2 Passed six core subjects at G. C. E. (O/L) examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil
Language and Craft and Art/Art and Craft ;
and
4.12.2.3 Followed and successfully completed (in not less than 10 months) a Technical Course which is
relevant to the subject area, conducted by a Government approved Technical College/National
Apprentice Board/Vocational Training Authority/Textile Industries Department/Industrial
Development and Enterprise Promotion Department/Other Institutions governed by Central/
Provincial Ministries.
Note.– (i) Priority Order of selection –
y   Design and Technology :
(a)  Applicants having Certificates 4.12.1.1 and 4.12.1.3
(b)  Applicants having Certificates 4.12.1.2, 4.12.1.3 and 4.12.1.4.
If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) and (b) are   not available, the applicants who have
passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2010 and 2009 will be considered as per ( a) and ( b)
mentioned in this Gazette notification.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1161
y Those who anticipate to apply for the course of Design and Technology at National Colleges of
Education in 2015 under 4.12.1.1 should have completed minimum of ten months course mentioned
under 4.12.1.4.
y Craft and Art :
(a)  Applicants having Certificates 4.12.2.1, 4.12.2.2 and 4.12.2.3
(b)  Applicants having Certificates 4.12.2.1 and 4.12.2.2
(i) If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) is not available, the applicants who have passed
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2010 and 2009 will be considered as per (a). If further vacancies
are available the applicants who have passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2011, 2010 and
2009 as per (b) will be considered.
(ii) In the application, under the Selection 16.1 it must be clearly indicate the applying  field of the course
whether the course as Design and Technology or Crafts and Art.
(iii) All requirements indicated above should have been completed on or before the closing date of the
applications.
4.13 Course No. 13 –  Art (Sinhala)
Art (Tamil)
4.13.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011  including Art ;
and
4.13.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (6) core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Art.
4.13.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Art/Art and Sculpture at G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in Year 2011 as per Section 3.4.4.
4.14 Course No. 14 – Dance  (Bharatha)
4.14.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 including Bharatha Natyam. (Two subjects
including Bharatha Natyam, only for estate workers children for Sri Pada National College of Education) ;
and
4.14.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Bharatha
Natyam.
4.14.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Bharatha Natyam in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2011 as per Section 3.4.4.
Note.– (If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National College
of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who are Indian Origins reside in the
Estate, have passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2011 with three subjects including Bharatha Dance
in Tamil medium. If vacancies exist beyond this, estate workers children who have passed G. C. E. (A/L)
examination held in Year 2011 with two subjects in one sitting and obtained a credit pass for Bharatha Natyam
in G . C. E. (O/L) examination will be considered for selection.)
4.15 Course No. 15 – Music  (Carnatic)
4.15.1 Passed any three subjects including Carnatic Music at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 (Two passes
including Carnatic music, only for estate workers children for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.15.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Carnatic Music.
4.15.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Carnatic Music in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2011 as per Section 3.4.4.
Note.– (If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National College
of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who are Indian origins reside in the

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1162
estate, have passed G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 with three subjects including Carnatic Music
in Tamil medium. If vacancies exist beyond this, estate workers children who have passed G . C. E. (A/L)
examination held in year 2011 with two subjects in one sitting and obtained a credit pass for Carnatic Music
in G. C. E. (O/L) examination will be considered for selection.)
4.16 Course No. 16 – Western Music  (English)
4.16.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 including Western Music  ;and
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music and, with a Credit pass for English Language or an ordinary pass for English Literature ; or
4.16.2 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2011 ; and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (6) core subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music with a Credit pass in English language or an ordinary pass in English Literature. ; and
Passed Grade five in Western Music (Theory and Practical) from a recognized institute approved by the Colleges of
Education Board. ; or
Passed Western Music at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination as an additional subject.
Note.–  (i) Applicants should reach a satisfactory level of performance at the practical test conducted for Western Music
Course.
(ii) In selection, priority will be given to applicants qualifying under 4.16.1.
4.17 Course No. 17 – Drama and Theatre (Tamil)
4.17.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2011 including Drama and Theatre ; and
4.17.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Drama and
Theatre/Music/Art or Dance ;
4.17.3 An additional mark will be awarded as per Section 3.4.4 based on the Grade obtained for Drama and Theatre in G . C.
E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2011 ;
Note.– Priority will be given to the Applicants who have passed Drama and Theatre at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
In case of sufficient applicants who have passed Drama and Theatre at G. C. E. (O/L) examination are not
available those who have passed Music/Art/Dance at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered.
4.18 Course No. 18 – Information Communication Technology (English) :
4.18.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination in year 2011 including Information Communication Technology ;
and
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and with a credit pass
for English language/an Ordinary Pass for English Literature and Credit pass for Mathematics.
4.18.2 Passed in any three subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2011 (Two subjects only for the estate
workers children for Sri Pada National College of Education) ;
and
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and with a credit pass
for English Language/an Ordinary Pass for English Literature and Credit pass for Mathematics.
Note.– (i) Priority will be given to those who qualify under 4.18.1 they do not need to sit for the selection test. Their
qualifications should be proved at the interview.
(ii) Applicants who are qualified under 4.18.2 will be selected through the Selection Test.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1163
(iii) This test paper is an objective type of 1-1/2 hour question paper.
This test measures competency of the candidate in order to the basic concept of mathematical necessary to
follow the Information communication Technology.
(iv) Applicants shall sit for the Selection Test in Sinhala, Tamil or English medium of study.
(v) Indicate the preferred medium under 1.0 para. of the application as S/T/E.
4.19 Course No. 19 – First Language  (Sinhala) :
4.19.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year  2011 in three subjects including a Credit pass for Sinhala subject ;
and
4.19.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and a Credit pass in Sinhala Language.
4.20 Course No. 20 – First Language  (Tamil) :
4.20.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2011 in three subjects including a Credit pass for Tamil subject. (Two
passes including Tamil only for the estate workers children for Sri Pada National College of Education, Priority will
be given to those who have a Credit pass for Tamil Language at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination) ; and
4.20.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core Subjects including Mathematics and a Credit pass in Tamil language.
4.21 Course No. 21 – Second National Language  (Sinhala) :
4.21.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2011 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Sinhala ; and
4.21.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala language.
Note.– The order of priority will be given to those who have followed Tamil as a Second National Language at
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Tamil issued by the Official
Language Department/Optional Second National Language at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.22 Course No. 22 - Second National Language (Tamil)
4.22.1 Passed G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2011 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Tamil ;  and
4.22.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Tamil Language.
Note.– The order of priority will be given to those who have followed Sinhala as a Second National Language at
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Sinhala issued by the Official
Languages Department/Optional Second National Language at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.23 Course No. 23 - Home Economics (Sinhala) :
Home Economics (Tamil) :
4.23.1 Passed three subjects including Home Economics at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2011 ; and
4.23.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with Sinhala/Tamil language, Mathematics and a Credit pass
for Science.
4.24 Course No. 24 - Social Science (Sinhala)
Social Science (Tamil) :
4.24.1 Passed three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2011 including one subject out of History, Political
Science and Geography. (Two passes in above subjects only for the estate workers children for Sri Pada National
College of Education) ; and
4.24.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (06) core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics and
with a Credit pass for Social Science and History.
(Social Science course will be conducted only in Tamil medium in Sri Pada National College of Education).

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1164
4.25 Course No. 25 - Business and Accounting (Sinhala)
Business and Accounting (Tamil)
4.25.1 Three passes in one sitting including Accounting and Business Studies at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held on 2011 ;
and
4.25.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a Credit pass in Business and Accounting/Entrepreneurship
Studies/Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil Language and with a Credit pass for English Language or an Ordinary pass for
English Literature.
5.0 Number of the Course, Name of the Course and the Medium of the National Colleges of Education where each course will be
conducted and the respective number of the NCoE are given below.
(Refer the chart carefully and identify the number of your course correctly before filling in the appilcation form. Your application
will be computerized referring to your Course Number. Applications that are filled with incorrect information will be rejected. No
alteration is permitted after your application is sent to the Branch of National Colleges of Education, Ministry of Education.)
(i) Column - Course Number ;
(ii) Column - Course Name ;
(iii) Column - NCoEEs where Sinhala medium courses are conducted ;
(iv) Column - NCoEEs where Tamil medium courses are conducted ;
(v) Column - NCoEEs where English medium courses are conducted.
(The numbers of the National Colleges of Education are given within brackets.)
Course NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Course Name Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v)
01 Primary Education (4) Sariputta (6) Vavuniya
(7) Sri Pada (7) Sri Pada
(11) Pulathisipura (8) Addalaichenai
(12) Wayamba (15) Jaffna
(14) Ruhuna (16) Dharga Town
(17) Hapitigam
02 Science (2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) Sri Pada (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
(2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) Sri Pada (5) Siyane
03 Mathematics (7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
04 Physical Education (1) Uva (6) Vavuniya
(3) Mahaweli
05 English (10) Pasdunrata
(15) Jaffna
(18) Peradeniya
06 Buddhism (4) Sariputta
07 Hinduism (6) Vavuniya
08 Islam (8) Addalaichenai
09 Catholicism/Christianity (12) Wayamba (6) Vavuniya
10 Special Education (17) Hapitigam (8) Addalaichenai
11 Agriculture and Food Technology (11) Pulathisipura (6) V avuniya
12 Technical Studies (5) Siyane (9) Batticaloa
13 Art (12) Wayamba (9) Batticaloa
14 Dance (Bharatha) (7) Sri Pada
(15) Jaffna

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1165
15 Music (Carnatic) (7) Sri Pada
(15) Jaffna
16 Western Music (3) Mahaweli
17 Drama and Theatre (15) Jaffna
(7) Sri Pada
18 Information Communication Technology (13) Ruwanpura
(16) Dhar ga Town
19 First Language (Sinhala) (12) Wayamba
20 First Language (Tamil) (7) Sri Pada
(8) Addalaichenai
21 Second Language (Sinhala) (3) Mahaweli
22 Second Language (Tamil) (3) Mahaweli
23 Home Economics (2) Nilawala (16) Dharga Town
(14) Ruhuna
24 Social Science (14) Ruhuna (7) Sri Pada
(9) Batticaloa
25 Business and Accounting (10) Pasdunrata (6) V avuniya
(12) Wayamba
Note : (i) Only Tamil medium female applicants should apply to Dharga Town National College of Education.
(ii) Courses for Dance (Baratha), Music (Carnatic), Drama and Theatre will be conducted only in Tamil Medium.
(iii) Courses for Western Music, Information Communication Technology will be conducted only in English Medium.
6.0 Procedure for Selection of Trainees for Year 2013 :
6.1 Basis of Selection :
6.1.1 The number of trainees to be admitted will be decided based on the teacher cadre requirements in the school system in
the year 2016.
6.1.2 The basis of selection other than English/Information Communication Technology/Physical Education Courses will be
the Z score obtained at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2011. Student will be selected for English/Information
Communication Technology and Physical Education Courses on the achievements and performances of Porficiency
Selection Tests/Sports. In case of selecting on the basis of Z Score/Proficiency Test or Performance of Sports if there
are more applicants with the same Z score/proficiency/performance marks, the results obtained at the G. C. E. (O/L)
at the first sitting will be considered. Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a Distinction pass, 03 marks for a very
good pass, 02 marks for a credit pass and 1 marks for an ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be
filled based on the total number of marks obtained. The award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects.
6.1.2.1 Except for Sripada National College of Education, selection for all courses, other than Primary Education
Course, will be 30% on National Level and 70% on Difficult District Level. Selection for Primary Education
Course acceptance from National Level 50% and Difficult Districts basis 50%.
6.1.3 Applicants who prefer to follow Science, Mathematics, Western Music and Information Communication Technology
in English Medium and Business and Accounts Course in Sinhala/Tamil medium have to qualify with credit pass for
English Language/ordinary pass for English Literature. Applicants for English Language Course should have obtained
a Very Good Pass in English Language or Credit Pass in English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination including six
(06) core subjects with Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.
6.1.4 Applicants should reach a satisfactory level at the Practical Test conducted for Physical Education and Western
Music.
Course NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Course Name Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1166
6.2 Difficult District Basis :
6.2.1 Admission for difficult districts will be made from applicants belonging to the 17 districts deemed as difficult based
on the distribution of educational facilities. (Matale, Mullativu, Anuradhapura, Nuwara Eliya, Vavuniya, Polonnaruwa,
Hambantota, Trincomalee, Badulla, Jaffna, Batticaloa, Moneragala, Kilinochchi, Ampara, Ratnapura, Mannar,
Puttalam).
Number to be admitted from each district will be decided for each course proportional to the number of students
appeared for G. C. E. (A/L) - 2011 Examination in all media in respective districts.
6.2.2 If the expected number from relevant difficult district is not available, vacancies will be filled from other districts.
6.2.3 Determination of Districts :
6.2.3.1 The district of any school applicant will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or major part of the Five years (more than 2 1/2 years) period ending on the last
day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination at
the first sitting.
6.2.3.2 If any private applicant had left the school after having previously sat the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination as a
school applicant, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school from which he/she had first
sat the above examination.
6.2.3.3 If any private applicant has left the school without having previously sat for the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
as a school candidate, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or the major part of the five years (more than 2 1/2 years) period ending on the
last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
at the first sitting.
6.2.3.4 If any private applicant has not studied in a School, he/she should confirm his/her district of residence with the
voter's list of Election Commissioners Office or Grama Niladhari and Divisional Secretary’s affidavit.
6.3 Selection for Sri Pada National College of Education :
6.3.1 75% of the vacancies will be filled from applicants of the Indian Tamil Origin and 25% from Sinhalese applicants.
6.3.1.1 On the required number of vacancies prevailing at State-schools in plantation districts, 35% of the candidates
will be appointed to the Moneragala, Badulla and Ratnapura Districts.
6.3.2 75% will be selected to Tamil Medium Courses while 25% will be selected to Sinhala Medium Courses.
6.3.3 Primary, Mathematics and Science Courses will be conducted in the Sinhala Medium whereas Information
Communication Technology Course, in the English Medium. Primary, Mathematics, Science, Music (Carnatic),
Dance (Bharatha) and First Language (Tamil), Social Science Courses will be conducted in the Tamil Medium. (These
courses will be offered at Sri Pada National College of Education.).
6.3.4 6.3.4.1 Applications for admission to Sri Pada National College of Education will be entertained only from children
whose parents are residents employed in the plantation sector in Nuwara Eliya, Kandy, Matale, Badulla,
Moneragala, Ratnapura, Kegalle, Kalutara, Matara, Galle and Kurunegala Plantation Districts. Priority is
given to children of the workers who work at present and estate workers living in estates who worked at least
25 years in the estate sector and retired/passed away/left service on medical reasons in between 2002 - 2011
are considered.
6.3.4.2 In case of insufficient number of children of the estate workers as per 6.3.4.1 applicants from the estate
sector, applications from those of the estate workers who worked at least 05 years after 2002 will be
considered although they are not employed at the moment. (Priority is given sequentially as 2011, 2010,
2009.).
6.3.4.3 In case of insufficient number of children, of the estate workers as applicants from the above districts for
Tamil Medium, applicants those who are not children of employees in the plantation sector but Indian Origin
live in above mentioned Districts, will be considered.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1167
6.3.4.4 In case of insufficiency of qualified applicants from plantation districts, Tamil Medium applicants who are
from other districts with Indian Origin will be considered.
6.3.4.5 Tamil medium Indian Origin applicants those who live in Plantation Districts and other districts should have
passed in three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
6.3.4.6 In case of insufficient number of Sinhala Medium applicants from plantation districts, the rest of the
vacancies will be filled from those who applied for the same course in other National Colleges of Education.
The basis of the selection will be the Z-score.
6.3.5 At the interview the children of the employees in the State and Private Sector Estate Companies should submit a letter
from the Estate Superintendent relating to service (indicating employee’s period of service) that he is permanently
serving for the past period of 05 years or more/retirement from the plantation sector (indicating year and date clearly).
Candidate’s letter agreeing to serve a period of ten (10) years continuously in the schools in the plantation sector after
the training and letters to prove that deductions are being done for the Employees Provident Fund including Registration
Numbers. Paragraph 6.2.2 will be applied for the applicants of Sri Pada National College of Education when deciding
district of applicants.
6.3.6 In selection, at least one applicant will be considered for each relevant district.
Note : In the case of an applicant having an Indian Tamil Origin who had studied in Sinhala Medium will be considered
for the percentage entitled to Indian Tamil Origin. Similarly, a Sinhalese applicant who had studied in Tamil
Medium will be considered for the Sinhala medium percentage.
7.0 Other Matters related to Selection :
7.1 Selected applicants should be prepared to submit acceptable evidence and originals of certificates to confirm their eligibility
on the date of conducting the interview. A number of applicants more than the number of vacancies will be called for the
interview.  Next applicants those who fails to report for interview without informing their acceptable reason on time, are
considered as absentees and their opportunity will be filled with next applicant.
7.2 Applicants who fail to submit the originals of all certificates will not be considered.
7.3 When a problematic situation is observed relating to the mental and physical fitness required by an applicant for reaching the
expected level in the Course and the Interview Board is not satisfied of this position he/she should be subjected to a special
interview and after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board the decision taken by the Board should
be implemented.
7.4 If the selected applicant fails to get registered in the relevant College of Education within 03 days from the due date, he/ she
will be deprived of the opportunity for the admission. The vacancies created thereby, will be filled according to the merit
order. Appeals from the applicants who fails to register within 03 days from the due date will strictly not be considered.
7.5 Selected applicants are required to appear for a Medical Examination before their admission to a College of Education to
ascertain whether they are physically and mentally fit for service in any part of the island.
7.6 After the admission to any Course/National College of Education permission will not be granted to change such Course/
College of Education. If a sufficient number of applicants are not available for a particular Course the applicants will be
transferred to the nearest College of Education to follow the same course.
8.0 Persons who are not eligible to apply or to get admitted :
8.1 Those who have already obtained teaching appointments in Government or in Private Schools.
8.2 Those who have been selected for an appointment in a Government School.
8.3 Those who are following or who have followed a Course in a College of Education.
8.4 Those who are following or have followed a Degree Course in a University or University Institute or any other Higher
Education Institute where G. C. E. (A/L) is the entry requirement. (After publishing the Gazette notification students who
were/are withdrawn the registration will not be eligible to apply/to get admitted).

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1168
8.5 Those who have been discontinued from a College of Education on disciplinary ground.
9.0 Conditions applicable for Training :
9.1 Duration of a Training Course is three years. This period consists of two years residential institutional training in the
National College of Education and one year internship training while being attached to a school. Attendance of a student
teacher should be not less than 90% to enable him/her to sit for the External Final Examination conducted by the Department
of Examinations at the end of the second year.
9.2 Every trainee should pass the Internal Continuous Tests held in the first and the second year, Internal Test conducted at th e
end of the second year and the external final examination conducted by the Department of Examinations. Except, those who
follow English Courses, all those who follow other Courses should pass in the English subject at the above examinations.
Applications should be forwarded only by those who agree to the above conditions.
9.3 During the period of two years residential training a trainee will be provided with meals and lodging facilities to the value of
Rs. 2,500 per month for ten months in a year. During the Internship year a monthly allowance of Rs. 3,000 will be paid for
ten months. Other expenses for personal requirements should borne by the trainee.
9.4 During the period of training, a trainee will not be allowed to follow an Academic Course as an internal student in a
University, University Institution or other Higher Education. If it is proved that a trainee had followed such a Course or
leave the course before three year period without completing the course the amount spent on the trainee will be surcharged
and the registration will be cancelled.
9.5 The clergy of any religion should make Bond and Agreement with the Ministry of Education on at least 5 years service
without being disrobed. If the trainees get married during the period of training their studentship will be cancelled.
9.6 If a trainee fails to exhibit the progress expected in his general conduct, enthusiasm and in his studies during the period of
training he will be removed from training. Likewise, those who do not reach a satisfactory level in the assessment during the
first year of academic training or found to be following any other Course in an Institute as indicated at 9.4 they will be
removed from the Course. Regarding these matters the decision made by the Colleges of Education Board shall be the final
decision.
9.7 If any complaints are received relating to the physical and mental fitness of the trainee either by the President of the College
during the period of training or by the Principal of the school during the Internship period the trainee will be referred to a Special
Interview Board. A final decision will be taken after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board.
9.8 National Diploma in Teaching will be awarded to the trainees who will successfully complete the Training Course. Course
Work and Personality Development (inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will be continuously assessed during
the period of training and this assessment will form a component of the final assessment in awarding the Diploma.
9.9 Applicants successfully completing this Course will be considered for grant of appointments as teachers based on the
availability of vacancies on Divisional Secretariat Level in difficult districts.
9.9.1 In future priority will be given to those who complete this Training Course in awarding teaching appointments for
Government Schools. Therefore, the candidates who are invited for the interviews for selecting to the above Course
should appear for the interview only if would agree to the above conditions.
9.9.2 Priority is given to those who will follow these training courses in appointing teachers to Government Schools.
Therefore, candidates should appear for the interviews if only they can adhere to the conditions mentioned above.
9.9.3 Applicants who receive their training under the above conditions should teach the same subject that they followed.
In addition have to enter into Bond and Agreement with the Secretary of the Ministry of Education that they will
serve under the Ministry of Education for a minimum period of five (5) years from the date of appointment in the
district selected for National College of Education they have been appointed. The Secretarial division for which the
appointment has been given will not be changed for any reason.
9.10 Applicants who get registered in a National College of Education should sign an Agreement and a Bond for Rs. 500,000 for
the cost to be incurred for providing training and for supply of infrastructure facilities. A student who leaves the Course half
way or who fails to serve for five years under the Government will be subjected to a condition for paying the total amount
in the Bond and Agreement to the Government.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1169
9.11 If any applicant claims to change the selected National College of Education on medical/personal reasons will not be eligible
for admission.
9.12 All educational and other qualifications should have been completed on or before the last date of calling for applications.
10.0 Application :
10.1 An applicant can apply for a maximum of 03 courses. If applied for the same course in two media, it is considered as applied
for two courses. Such applicant can apply only for one more courses. Buddhist monks should apply for the Course of
Buddhism whereas the clergy of Christianity, Hinduism and Islam for their respective courses of religions.
Example : If a candidate applied for science course both in English medium and Sinhala medium he can only apply for one
more courses.
10.2 An applicant can enclose only one application. If any applicant sent more than one application all the applications will be
rejected. Applicants for Physical Education, Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Catholicism/Christianity, Technical Studies,
Western Music must enclsoe two certified photocopies of the application in the same envelope and submit.
10.3 Application should be prepared according to the Specimen Form and instructions given below.
10.4 Applications should be sent under Registered Post and addressed to Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education), Colleges of
Education Branch, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla to be received on or before 13.07.2012.
Specimen of the envelope in which the application is enclosed should be as follows :
Application for Admission to National Colleges of Education 2013
Course Number indicated as first preference .......... Medium ................
Apply to the Sri Pada National College of Education Yes/No.
Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education),
Colleges of Education Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(It is stressed that applications should not be sent to Department of Examinations/National Colleges of Education).
10.5 The postal receipt of registration issued in forwarding the application and a photo copy of the application should be sent
in all instances of making inquiries or submitting appeals. Hence, these documents should be kept with the candidate.
10.6 Applications which do not clearly indicate the Index Number, Year and Course Number as well as the incomplete and
informal applications will be rejected.
10.7 Applications will not be acknowledged.
10.8 No other document should be attached to the application.
10.9 If any certificate submitted by the candidate is revealed later to be a forged or fraudulent certificate, the candidate wil l be
dismissed from service and he will be ineligible for any post in Public Service.
11.0 Regarding any problems arising with regard to the above information in this Gazette Notification the decision of the Colleges of
Education Board will be the final decision.
12.0 In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil or English Texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala Text shall
prevail.
H. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
08th June, 2012.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1170
INSTRUCTIONS    FOR    THE    PREPARATION    OF    APPLICATION    FORM
1.0 Read the Gazette Notification very carefully. Apply only three courses to which you are eligible in one application. Applicants
applying for the Physical Education, Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Catholicism,/Christianity, Technical Studies, Western Music
courses must enclose two certified photocopies of the application along with original application in the same envelope and submt.
(School applicants should get the photo copies certified by the Principal while the private applicants should get them certifie d by
a Justice of the Peace).
2.0 Application should be prepared in a (legal) F5 size white paper (21.8 x 33c.m.) in conformity with the specimen form. Paragraphs
1.0 to 9.5 should be included in the first page. In places where information has to be given in a cage, mark “X” in the relevant cage.
3.0 Please note that the Computer Data relating to each Course used for calling applicants for the interview are prepared based on the
information given from 1.0 to 9.5 in the first page. Specially the Course Number, Index Number of G . C. E. (A/L) and Z Score
should be confirmed as accurate. Please note that the application is liable to be rejected owing to overlapped writing and ille gible
and erroneous writing.
4.0 The information given in paragraph 12.0 for Physical Education Course,
Paragraph 13.0 for Buddhism Course,
Paragraph 14.0 for Catholicism /Christianity Course,
Paragraph 15.0 for Hinduism/Islam Course,
Paragraph 16.0 for Technical Studies and Paragraph 17.0 for Western Music Course should be considered carefully in filling the
application. The information specified will not be changed under any circumstances.
5.0 Numbers assigned to the districts related to paragraph 6.2.3 are indicated below  :
Colombo – 01 Hambantota – 09 Amparai – 17
Gampaha – 02 Jaffna – 10 Puttalam – 18
Kalutara – 03 Kilinochchi – 11 Kurunegala – 19
Matale – 04 Mannar – 12 Anuradhapura – 20
Kandy – 05 Mullativu – 13 Polonnaruwa – 21
Nuwara Eliya – 06 Vavuniya – 14 Badulla – 22
Galle – 07 Trincomalee – 15 Moneragala – 23
Matara – 08 Batticaloa – 16 Kegalle – 24
Ratnapura – 25
6.0 Symbol for each Medium : Sinhala - S, Tamil - T, English - E
7.0 Town name and number where the examination scheduled to be conducted given below to fill paragraph 1.0 for the use of the
applicants for English (Coure No. 05) and Information Communication Technology (Course No. 18)
Colombo – 01 T angalle – 09 Ampara – 17
Gampaha – 02 Jaffna – 10 Chilaw – 18
Kalutara – 03 Kilinochchi – 11 Kurunegala – 19
Kandy – 04 Mannar – 12 Anuradhapura – 20
Matale – 05 Mullativu – 13 Polonnaruwa – 21
Nuwara Eliya – 06 Vavuniya – 14 Badulla – 22
Galle – 07 Trincomalee – 15 Moneragala – 23
Matara – 08 Batticaloa – 16 Kegalle – 24
Ratnapura – 25
If there are no sufficient number of applicants for an examination center in a district, those applicants will be sent to a nea rest
examination center.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1171
Specimen Application Form
ADMISSION TO NATIONAL COLLEGES OF EDUCATION - 2013
(Applicants should forward their necessary applications according to the Section 10.2 of Gazette notification. Applications which are not
prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected. Details up to paragraph 09 in the application should be include d in the
first page. Computer data required for the selection interview will be prepared out of the information given from 1.0 - 9.5).
1.0
Preference Course College Course Medium Course Number (18) and the medium Town Number to
Number Number S/T/E of the examination (S/T/E) sit 05/18 Exam
1
2
3
2.0 2.1 Name with initials in English (In Block letters) Example : PERERA R. C.
Mr./Miss :–––––––––––.
2.2 Name in full in English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
3.0 Permanent residential address :
  In English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
4.0 According to para 6.2.3 in Gazette Notification :
District :–––––––––––. District No. :
5.0 5.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month :  Date :
5.2 National Identity Card No.  :
6.0 Sex : Male 1 Female   2
7.0 Ethnicity :
Sinhalese Sri Lankan Tamil Indian Tamil Muslim Others
12 3 4 5
8.0 Results of G . C. E. (A/L) in Year 2011 :
8.1 Year : Medium of the Examination :––––––––––.
8.2 Index No. :
8.3 Z score  :                 It Z is minus indicate : M
8.4 Details of results subject wise :
Subject Subject No. Grade
1. ........................ ........................ ........................
2. ........................ ........................ ........................
3. ........................ ........................ ........................
9.0 9.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for English and English medium Courses at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination for
English Language and English Literature Subject No. :
Year :
Index No.
9.2 Are you applying to Sri Pada National College of Education ? Y es 1 No 2
.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1172
9.3 If yes indicate whether you are a state worker’s child by marking ( ‘ X’ in the relevant cage) :
Yes 1 N o 2
9.4 Total marks included for section 12.0 in the application by applicants for Physical Education Sinhala/Tamil :
9.5 9.5.1.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for Second National Language (Sinhala) Medium Courses at the G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Second Language (Tamil) : Subject No. :
9.5.1.2 The highest grade obtained by applicants for Second National Language (Tamil) Medium Courses at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Second Language (Sinhala) : Subject No. :
10.0 If you have sat the G . C. E. (A/L) examination prior to year 2011, please indicate details in full in each sitting even if you
appeared for only one subject :
10.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2
10.2 Y ear ........... ..............
10.3 Index No. ........... ..............
10.4 Examination Center No. ........... ..............
10.5 Z Score ........... ..............
10.6 Subjects passed and grades
Subject Grade Subject Grade
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
11.0 Details of G . C. E. (O/L) passed :
11.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2 3
11.2 Y ear .............. ............. ..............
11.3 Index No. .............. ............. ..............
11.4 Examination Centre No. .............. ............. ..............
11.5 Subjects and Grades passed
1st sitting 2nd sitting 3rd sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
2. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
3. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
4. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
5. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
6. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
7. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
8. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
12.0 Particulars of sports competency according to the Clause 4.4.3 in Para. 4.4 of the Gazette Notification :
(Only those who apply for Physical Education Course should complete). It is necessary to give your attention to all the
Clauses in 4.4.3 when you complete this part. Particulars of only highest three sports/competency will be sufficient.
If you have passed Health and Physical Education in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination, state the relevant mark according to the
grate as in 4.4.4, must be mentioned below.
The total number of marks of your competency on sports should be included in 9.4 in the first page of this application.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1173
Certificate of sports competency :
No. Year Ministry/Institute/ Represented for Event/Sports Place Relevant
Clubs issued Competitions-International/ obtained Marks for
National/Provincial/District/ 4.4.3
Zonal
1
2
3
If you sat for Health and Physical Education in G . C. E. (O/L), Grade          Marks
Total Marks
13.0 Results (if any) of Pracheena Preliminary, Bauddha Dharmacharya, Pirivena Final Examination according to 4.6 of the Gazette
Notification :
Examination Pracheena Bauddha Piri vena Final Daham Pasal
Preliminary Dharmacharya Final
13.1 Year
13.2 Index No.
13.3 Center No.
13.4 Subject 1 1 1
Grade 2 2 2
33 3
44 4
55
66
7
8
9
10
11
14.0 The applicant of Catholicism/Christianity should fill the relevant part according to para 4.9 of the Gazette Notification.
Duration
Name of  the Course/Certificate
From  To Grade
14.1 Degree in Theology (BTH)
14.2 Philosophy Certificate (BPH) conducted by the National and Seminary
14.3 Dharmacharya Certificate conducted by the National Catechetical center
14.4 Three year religious education course in Deva Dharma Niketanaya
14.5 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that
the candidate has successfully completed the study of  the religious
education and training course (Novitiate) or become a member of the clergy
14.6 Should have obtained Dharma Vedi Diploma conducted by Theological
College Pilimatalawa
 14.7 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge
conducted by National Christian Council
14.8 Certificate issued by relevant Bishop be a religious Teacher of Catholicism
or Christianity
14.9 Obtained a pass in G. C. E. (A/L) Christianity subjects

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1174
15.0 The applicants of Hinduism (4.7)/Islam (4.8) should fill the necessary particulars according to secretion 4.7 and 4.8 of t he Gazette
Notification :
Name of the Course Duration V alid Date of the Certificate
16.0 The applicants of Technical Studies (4.12) should fill the necessary particulars according to the Gazette Notification.
16.1 In the application clearly indicate the applying field of the course whether the course as Design and T echnology or Crafts
and Art :––––––––.
16.2 The applicants who have successfully completed a Technical Course in a recognized Government Institute and hope to
follow the Technical Skills Course Para. 4.12.1.4/4.12.2.3 should fill in the following table :
Name of the Number and Date Institute that Duration Whether successfully
Technical Registration in conducted the completed the course
Course Government Course
17.0 Applicants for the Western Music according in terms of para. 4.16.1 and 4.16.2 in the Gazette Notification should include relevant
particulars :
Year Institute issuing Certificate Proficiency/class passed
18.0 Declaration of the applicant :
(i) I have forwarded my application in accordance with Section 10.2 of the Gazette Notification.
(ii) I certify that the particulars given by me are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars given by me in this application
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected before selection or to be discontinued if detect ed
after selection.
(iii) I declare that I have not applied for University admission and that I am not registered for following a course in a University/
University Institute/affiliated University College/any other Education Institute.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
19.0 Declaration by the Head of School/Pirivena in respect of School/Pirivena applicants :
I certify that this applicant sat G . C. E. (O/L) examination and G . C. E. (A/L) Examination/Pracheena Preliminary Final Examination
as a student of this School/Pirivena and that the particulars given above by the applicant are correct according to my knowledge and

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.06.2012
1175
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN  THE  SRI  LANKA  ANIMAL
PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH – 2011(2012)
AMENDMENT to the Gazette notification on the above Examination published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka, Number 1,755 dated 20.04.2012.
First two instructions to be filled the specimen application form should be amended as follows.
"The name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope".
"Two separate application forms should be forwarded, if the candidate wishes to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations I and
II at the same time".
Dr. K. M. T. K
ENDARAGAMA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
P. O. Box 45,
St. Micheal Road,
Colombo 03,
31st May, 2012.
06-798
that the  Z-Score ...................... (write in words) obtain by the applicant at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the year  ...................... is
according to the official sheets issued by the Commissioner-General of Examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Principal/Head of the Pirivena.
Name of Principal of School/Head of Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Name and address of School/Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––.
20.0 Declaration in respect of private applicants :
I certify that the Z-Score obtained by me in the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in the year ............ is ............. (write in  words)
according to the Official result sheet issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations, is ........................
–––––––––––,
Applicant’s signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Signed before me.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Justice of the Peace.
Name :–––––––––––,
Official Frank :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–851
––––––––––––––––––