

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL  RESEARCH  COUNCIL OF
SRI  LANKA  ACT, No. 11 OF 2016
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 27th July, 2016]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 14.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 29, 2016

<!-- page 2 -->

1National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
2—PL 009950—  2,961 (05/2016)
Establishment of
the National
Research Council
of Sri Lanka.
[Certified on 27th July, 2016]
L.D.—O. 28/2014
A
N ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A COUNCIL TO BE
CALLED AND KNOWN AS THE NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF
SRI LANKA FOR THE PURPOSE OF FOSTERING AND SUSTAINING A SCIENCE
AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH CULTURE AND COMMUNITY IN SRI LANKA
AND FACILITATING RESEARCH PROGRAMMES THAT WILL CONTRIBUTE
TO THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENDA, AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the National Research
Council of Sri Lanka Act, No. 11 of 2016, and shall come
into operation on such date (hereinafter referred to as the
“appointed date”)  as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette.
PART  I
E
STABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF
SRI LANKA
2. ( 1) There shall be established a Council which shall
be called the National Research Council of Sri Lanka
(hereinafter referred to as the “Council”).
(2) The Council shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
its corporate name.
Short title and
date of
operation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
3. The objectives for which the Council is established
shall be—
(a) to assist the Government to facilitate research
relating to science and technology in order to build
a vibrant scientific and technological community
in the country;
(b) to promote and facilitate research relating to science
and technology in higher educational institutions
and public sector research institutes and other
governmental institutes so as to develop a research
base that will contribute to national needs; and
(c) to solicit the co-operation of the private sector in
the enhancement of research relating to science and
technology.
4. (1) The Council shall consist of—
(a) not more than ten members to be appointed by
the Minister from among Scientists who have
wide knowledge and experience in the field of
research relating to science and technology and
other relevant disciplines (hereinafter referred
to as ‘appointed members’);
(b) the following ex-officio members:—
(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister to whom the subject of science
and technology is assigned or his
representative; and
(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister to whom the subject of finance is
assigned or his representative.
(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointed
members to be the Chairman of the Council.
Objecitves of the
Council.
Constitution of
the Council.

<!-- page 4 -->

3National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
5. In the exercise of its powers and carrying out of its
objectives, the Council shall comply with the general policy
of the Government in connection with research relating to
science and technology with any general or special directions
issued by the Minister in respect thereof.
6. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Council—
(a) if such perosn is, or becomes a member of Parliament,
any Provincial Council or any Local Authority; or
(b) if such person is not, or ceases to be a citizen of
Sri Lanka; or
(c) if such person has any financial or other interest as
is likely to affect prejudicially the discharge by
him of his functions as a member of the Council; or
(d) if such person absents himself from three
consecutive meetings of the Council without
acceptable reasons; or
(e) if such person is under any law in force in Sri Lanka
or in any other country, found or declared to be of
unsound mind; or
(f) if such person is serving or has served a sentence of
imprisonment impose by any court in Sri Lanka or
any other country.
7. Every ex-officio member of the Council shall hold
office as long as such officer holds office by virtue of which
he has been appointed to the Council.
8. (1) Every appointed member of the Council shall,
unless such member vacates office earlier by death,
resignation or removal, hold office for a term of three years
from the date of appointment and unless such member has
been removed from office, be eligible for re-appointment.
Council to
exercise its
powers under
the directions of
the Minister.
Disqualification
for membership
of the Council.
Ex-officio
members.
Provisions
relating to
appointed
members.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
(2) The Minister may, remove any appointed member of
the Council from office for reasons assigned.
(3) Any appointed member of the Council may at any
time resign from office by letter to that effect addressed to
Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon it being
accepted by the Minister in writing.
(4) ( a) In the event of the vacation of office by death,
resignation or removal from office of any appointed member,
the Minister may having regard to the provisions of section
4(1), appoint any other person to succeed such member.
(b) Any person so appointed in place of such member,
shall hold office during the unexpired part of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.
(5) Where any appointed member of the Council, by
reason of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a
period of not less than three months, is temporarily unable
to perform the duties of his office, such member shall inform
the Minister in writing of such inability. Thereupon, the
Minister may having regard to the provisions of section 4(1)
appoint another person to act in his place during such period.
9. (1) The Chairman may resign from the office of
Chairman by letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister
and such resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted
by the Minister in writing.
(2) The Minister may for reasons assinged, by Order
published in the Gazette , remove the Chairman. The
Chairman in respect of whom an Order is made under this
paragraph shall be deemed to have vacated office on the
date of the publication of the Order in the Gazette.
 (3) Where the Chairman is by reason of illness, infirmity
or absence from Sri Lanka for a period of not less than three
months, temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office,
Term of office
etc. of the
Chairman.

<!-- page 6 -->

5National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
the Chairman shall inform the Minister of such inability in
writing. The Minister may, under section 4(2), appoint
another member to act in place of the Chairman during such
absence.
(4) Where the Chairman vacates office by death,
resignation or removal, the Minister may, under the
provisions of section 4(2), appoint another member in his
place and the Chairman so appointed shall hold office for
the unexpired term of the term of office of the Chairman
whom he succeeds.
(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1) and (2) ,
the term of office of the Chairman shall be his period of
membership of the Council.
10. No act or proceeding of the Council shall be
invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy in
the Council or any defect in the appointment of a member of
the Council.
11. The members of the Council may be paid such
remuneration as may be determined by the Minister with
the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of
finance.
12. (1) A meeting of the Council shall be held at least
once in every two months.
(2) The Chairman or in his absence a member elected by
the members present, shall preside at the meetings of the
Council.
(3) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Council
shall be decided by the vote of a majority of the members
present. In the case of an equality of votes, the member
presiding shall have a casting vote.
Acts or
proceedings of
the Council not
to be invalid by
reason of any
vacancy or
defect in the
appointment of
a member.
Remuneration
&c. of members
of the Council.
Meetings of the
Council.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
(4) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall be
six members and subject to the provisions of this section the
Council may regulate the procedure of its meetings.
13. (1) The Seal of the Council shall be as determined
by the Council.
(2) The seal of the Council—
(a) may be altered in such manner as may be
determined by the Council;
(b) shall be in the custody of such person or
persons as the   Council may determine;
(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or
document without the sanction of the
Council and except in the presence of
two members of the Council, both of whom
shall sign the instrument in token of their
presence.
PART II
P
OWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COUNCIL
14. The functions of the Council shall be-
(a) to provide grants for the conduct of research
relating to science and technology for the
purpose of achieving the objectives of the
Council;
(b) to facilitate, coordinate, supervise and
monitor research relating to science and
technology  in respect of grants provided to
higher educational institutions, public sector
research institutes and other governmental
institutions so as to ensure the efficient
utilization of government investments in
research;
The seal of the
Council.
The functions of
the Council.

<!-- page 8 -->

7National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
(c) to import plant, machinery and equipment
required for the purpose of the Council and
to receive equipment, funds and any other
assistance from recognized local or foreign
sources for the efficient conduct of the
Council;
(d) to collect, print and publish reports,
periodicals and papers on research relating
to science and technology and related
subjects;
(e) to award scholarships and fellowships for
scientific study or scientific work at science
and technology institutions local or foreign;
(f) to develop a national system to recognize and
grant awards for research and innovations
relating to science and technology; and
(g) to conduct lectures, seminars and workshops
on research relating to science and
technology and related subjects.
15. The Council shall have the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire and hold any property,
movable or immoverble and to sell, lease,
mortgage, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same for the purposes of the Council;
(b) to open and maintain current, savings or
deposit accounts in any bank or banks;
(c) to enter into all such contracts with local or
foreign individuals or institutions as may be
necessary for the exercise, performance or
discharge of its powers and functions;
Powers of the
Council.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
(d) to invest its funds which are not required
immediately in such securities as it may
determine;
(e) to acquire such rights, privileges, powers,
licences and authorities as may be necessary
for the performance and discharge of its
functions;
(f) to give grants to individuals, scientists or to
any institute or authority to initiate or
conduct research on specific projects relating
to science and technology;
(g) to establish working committees to assist the
Council in any aspect of its work, define the
scope of work of such committees and to
appoint, with the approval of the Minister,
persons to such committees;
(h) to make rules in respect of matters pertaining
to the administration of the affairs of the
Council as may become necessary;
(i) levy fees, royalties or charges for any services
rendered by the Council; and
(j) to do all other acts as may be necessary for, or
incidental to the attainment of the objectives
of the Council and the carrying out of the
functions of the Council.
PART III
APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND THE STAFF
OF THE COUNCIL
16. (1) The Minister shall in consultation with the
Council appoint a person who possesses a degree in the
Science, from a recognized university to be the Chief
The Chief
Executive
Officer of the
Council.

<!-- page 10 -->

9National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
Executive Officer of the Council subject to such terms and
conditons as may be determined in the like manner.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the
directions of the Council, be charged with the administration
of the affairs of the Council and disciplinary control of the
staff of the Council. He shall discharge any other functions
as may be assigned to him by the Council.
(3) The Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed for
such period as shall be determined by the Minister which
shall not exceed five years from the date of his appointment
and unless removed from office may be re-appointed by the
Minister in consultation with the Council, taking into
consideration his performance in such office during the tenure
of his office.
(4) The Chief Executive Officer shall be entitled to be
present and express his views at any meeting of the Council,
but shall not be entitled to vote at any such meeting.
(5) The Minister may remove the Chief Executive Officer
for reasons assigned therefor.
17. (1) The Council may, subject to the provisions of
this Act—
(a) appoint such officers and other employees as it
considers necessary for the performance or
discharge of its functions and may exercise
disciplinary control over or dismiss such officers or
employees;
(b) pay such remuneration and other benefits to such
officers and other employees as shall be determined
by the Council, in consultation with the Minister
and with the concurrence of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance;
Appointment
&c. of the staff
of the Council.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
(c) establish and regulate provident funds or schemes,
for the benefit of its officers and employees and
make contributions to such funds or schemes.
(2)  Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions of
section 14(2) of the National Transport Commission Act,
No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis , apply to and in
relation to such officer.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions of
section 14(3) of the National Transport Commission Act,
No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis , apply to and in
relation to such officer.
(4) Where the Council, employs a person who has entered
into a contract with the Government for a specified period,
any period of service to the Council shall be ragarded as
service to the Government for the purpose of discharging
the obligations of such contract.
PART  IV
F
INANCE
18. (1) The Council shall have its own Fund, to which
shall be credited—
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted upon by
Parliament from time to time for the use of  the
Council;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Council in the exercise, discharge and performance
of its powers and functions under the Act;
(c) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Council for the promotion and enhancement of the
Fund of the
Council.

<!-- page 12 -->

11National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
objects of the Council by way of loans, donations,
gifts, bequests or grants from any source whatsoever,
whether within or outside Sri Lanka; and
(d) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Council  by way of fees, royalties or charges under
this Act.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Council, all
such sums of money as are required to defray the expenditure
incurred by the Council in the exercise, discharge and
performance of the powers and functions of the Council.
19. (1) The Council shall cause proper books of
accounts to be kept of its assets and liabilities, income and
expenditure and all other transactions of the Council.
(2) The Financial year of the Council shall be the calendar
year.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shall
apply to and in regard to the audit of accounts of the Council.
PART  V
GENERAL
20. (1) The Council shall within six months of the end
of each financial year, submit to  the Minister an annual
report of the activities carried out by the Council during
that financial year, and cause a copy each of the following
documents relating to that year to be attached to the report:—
(a) the audited accounts of the Council for the year,
along with the Auditor-General’s report;
(b) a report of proposed activities for the year
immediately following the year to which  such report
and accounts relates.
Audit of
Accounts of the
Council.
Annual Report.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the reports and
documents submitted under subsection (1) before Parliament
within six months from date of receipt of such reports and
doucments.
21. Where any land is required for any purpose of the
Council, such purpose shall, for the purpose of the  Land
Acquisition Act ( Chapter 460), be deemed to be a public
purpose and the land may accordingly be acquired under
the Act by the Government for the Council, and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to such
acquisition.
22. (1) No liability, whether civil or criminal, shall attach
to any member or officer of the Council or to any officer
authorized by such member or officer, for anything which in
good faith is done in the performance or exercise of any
function or power imposed on or assigned to the Council
under this Act.
(2) Any expenses incurred by the Council in any suit or
prosecution brought by or against any relevant authority
before any Court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Council
and any cost paid to or recovered by the Council in any such
suit or prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of the
Council.
(3) Any expenses incurred by a member or officer of the
Council or by any officer authorized by any such member
or officer, as the case may be, in any suit or prosecution
brought against him before any court in respect of any act
done by him under this Act shall, if the Court holds that
such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of
the Council, unless such expenses are recovered by him in
such suit or prosecution.
23. (1) A person shall not, do anything to interfere or
obstruct any member or officer of the Council or exercise
any undue influence or coercion on any such member or
officer in the exercise or performance of any power or
function by such member or officer under this Act.
Compulsory
acquisition of
land for the
Council.
Protection of
members and
officers of the
Council from
suit or
prosecution.
Interference or
exercise of
undue influence
etc; to be an
offence.

<!-- page 14 -->

13National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
(2) A person who acts in violation of the prohibition
imposed by subsection (1), shall commit an offence and shall
on conviction after summery trial before a Magistrate, be
liable to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand.
24. All officers and servants of the Council shall be
deemed to be public servants within the meaning and for the
purposes of the Penal Code.
25. The Council shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of the Act shall be construed accordingly.
26. (1) The Council may make rules which are necessary
for the management and administration of the affairs of the
Council.
(2) Every rule made by the Council, shall be published in
the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of
such publication or on such later date as may be specified in
such rule.
27. From and after the appointed date—
(a) all activities hitherto carried out by the National
Research Council which has been established under
the Presidential Directive dated 24th of July 2007
(hereinafter referred to as the “National Research
Council”) in the accomplishment of the objcets of
that Council and which are not inconsistent with
the objects of the National Research Council of Sri
Lanka established under section 2 of this Act
(hereinafter referred as ‘the Council’) shall be
deemed to be activities required to be carried out
under this Act and, shall continue to be carried out
by the Council;
Officers and
servants of the
Council deemed
to be public
servants.
Council deemed
to be a
scheduled
institution for
the purposes of
the Bribery Act.
Rules.
Savings.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
(b) all  property movable and immovable belonging to
the National Research Council, on the date
immediately prior to the appointed date shall, with
effect from the appointed date, stand to be
transferred to the Council;
(c) all suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings, matters
or things which have been instituted by or against
the National Research Council and are pending as
at the date immediately prior to the appointed date,
shall be deemed to be suits, prosecutions, actions,
proceedings, matters or things which have been
instituted by or against the Council and may be
continued and completed accordingly;
(d) any decree, order or award entered or made in favour
of or against the said National Research Council
by any court or tribunal or other body shall, with
effect from the appointed date be deemed to be a
decree, order or award entered or made in favour of
or against the Council and may be enforced
accordingly;
(e) the officers and employees of the National Research
Council holding office on the day immediately
prior to the appointed date, shall, be deemed, with
effect from the appointed date, to be officers or
employees of the Council on terms not less
favourable than their terms of employment in the
National Research Council;
(f) all debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurred,
all contracts and agreements executed or enforced
into and all matters and things engaged or agreed
to be done by or with the National Research Council
and all licenses issued for and on behalf of the said
National Research Council which are subsisting as
on the day immediately prior to the appointed date
shall, with effect from the appointed date be deemed

<!-- page 16 -->

15National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
to be debts, obligations, assets and liabilities
incurred, all contracts and agreements executed or
enforecd into and all matters and things engaged or
agreed to be done by, with or for and licenses issued
for and on behalf of the Council.
28. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
“Minister” means the Minister to whom the
implementation of the provisions of this Act
is assigned.
29. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil Texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 National Research Council of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 11 of 2016
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .