

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1087
1087
wxl 1"815 - 2013 cqks 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'06'14
No. 1,815 – FRIDAY , JUNE 14, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1090
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1093
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th July, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st June,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,814 of 07.06.2013 was not published.
Note.—  (i) (Dr.) Malani Fonseka Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 06, 2011.
(ii) Freedom of Information Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka of May 13, 2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1088
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1089
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1090
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 14th Jul y, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
23rd May, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Rambewa Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Nuwaragampalatha Division General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths of Kallanchiya Anuradhapura
Division
06–252
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1091
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 14th Jul y, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
28th May, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Nuwaragam Palatha Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in District Secretary/Additional Registrar
 East Nuwaragam Palatha Division of General, District Secretariat,
Anuradhapura New Town Area Anuradhapura
06–309
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Recruitment for the Post of Receptionist
APPLICA TIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who possess
the following qualifications for the post of Receptionist (2 posts)
in the Ministry of Justice.
01. Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed the G . C.
E. (O/L) Examination in six (6) subjects with minimum of 4 credits
including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil/English in one sitting.
Should have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in one subject
(except General Common Test).
02. Experience.– Should have worked as a Receptionist at a
government or private office for a minimum period of 6 months or
more.
03. Physical fitness.– Every applicant should be physically and
mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
04. Other qualifications :
(i) The applicant should be a Sri Lankan citizen ;
(ii) The applicant should have a good moral character ;
(iii) Above qualifications which are required for the above
post (from 1 to 4) should have been fulfilled as at the
closing date of applications.
Copies of the certificate of G . C. E. (O/L) and G. C. E. (A/L)
examinations to prove educational qualifications, a copy
of service certificate to prove the work experience, a copy
of Birth Certificate to prove age and a copy of National
Identity Card should be produced along with the
application.
Applicants who fail or are unable to produce the copies
of relevant certificates may not call for the interview.
05. Age limit. – Not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years as at closing date.
06. Salary Scale .– MN -1-2006(A). Monthly Rs. 13,120 -
10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
07. Method of Recruitment.– Through a structured interview.
08. Nature of Duties.– The selected candidate will be required to
welcome visitors politely and direct them to relevant divisions

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1092
under proper guidance and offer a friendly and pleasant service and
fulfill other duties assigned by the Secretary.
09. Conditions of Service. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. Should contribute to Widow/Widowers and Orphans
Pension Scheme.
10. Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen
application set out below should be completed properly and sent
on or before 12.07.2013 to the following address by registered
post. "Post of Receptionist at Ministry of Justice" should be
mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing
the application. Applicants already in public service shoudl send
their applications throught he Head of Department.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
11. Method of allocating marks at the structured interview :
Subject concerned Maximum marks
01 Additional educational qualifications 25
02 Language Proficiency 25
03 Computer Knowledge 15
04 Additional Experience 30
05 Skills showed at the interview 05
Total 100
Note.– Selection would be made from applicants who score
highest marks at the interview ont he skills basis.
12. Application should be filled in accurately. Applications
received late would be rejected without informing the applicant and
complaints on loss of applications or attached documents at post
would not be considered.
13. If any particulars contained are found to be false or incorrect,
he/she is liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed
if such detection is made after selection.
Secretary to the Public Service Commission is the authorized
officer for making decision on any matter which is not mentioned
herein.
K
AMALINI DE SILV A,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
23rd May, 2013.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF RECEPTIONIST AT
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
No. :..........................
(For office use)
01. Full name :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil/English)
02. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil/English)
03. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil/English)
04. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
05. Age as at the closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
06. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
07. Sex :––––––––––––.
08. Civil status :––––––––––––.
09. Telepone :––––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––––.     Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––––.     Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
11. Experience :––––––––––––.
(As mentioned in the notice of calling applications)
12. Other qualifications :––––––––––––.
13. I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that, if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I
am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be disqualified
if selected or to be dismissed without any compensation if
such detection is made after appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1093
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certified that the applicant is being employed in this Ministry/Department as ................................ on permanent/c asual/
temporary basis and particulars furnished by her/him are accurate according to the personal file and he/she has not been subjected to any
form of disciplinary actions and she/he can be released/cannot be released from service if selected for the above post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Seal).
Date :––––––––––––.
06–249
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS  –  SRI  LANKA
Final Certificate Examination for Ahadhiya/Al-Quaran
Schools on Islamic Studies – 2012
(Equivalent to Daham Pasal Final Certificate Examination)
RULES and Regulations.– The above examination will be conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations during September,
2013. Subjects and the syllabus for the examination are given in
Annexure I.
2. Centres for Examination.– Examination Centres will be set up
in towns indicated in Annexure II of this notification. Centres in
any town will be cancelled if sufficient number of candidates has
not requested that town. In case of such cancellation of any town
the candidates will be transferred to centres set up in the nearest
town.
3. Language Medium. – This examination will be conducted in
Tamil, Sinhala and English languages. However, a candidate should
appear for all the subjects in one and the same language.
4. Eligibility.– Every applicant should have fulfilled at least one
of the following requirements :–
4.1 Should be a student in Grade 10 or Grade 11 in an
Ahadhiya School registered with the Department of
Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs ;
or
4.2 Should be a student who has completed the Senior Grade
Al-Quaran Madrasa Syllabus approved by the
Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs ;
or
4.3 Should be a student who has passed the subjects of
Islam and Arabic in the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
Note :
(i) Applications for this examination should be certified
by the Principal of the Ahadhiya School or by the
Principal of the Al-Qur'an Madrasa or by the Principal
of School to the effect that the candidate has fulfilled
the requirements mentioned under paragraph 4 above.
(ii) An applicant can submit application for this
examination only through the Principal of an Ahadhiya
School or the Principal of a Senior Al-Qur'an Madrasa
or School.
5. In the event of any registered Ahadhiya School, Senior Qur'an
Madrasa or a School does not receive the application forms and
instructions by post on time the Principal concerned should contact
the –
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreing Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla,
on or before 28th of June, 2013.
5.1 Applications should be prepared in duplicate. The
original should be forwarded to the Department of
Examinations while the duplicate should be kept filed
in the relevant Institution.
5.2 The closing date of applications will be 12th of July,
2013.
5.3 Applications should be clearly and legibly filled in.
Inaccurately or Illegibly filled applications and those
that are received after the closing date will be rejected.
5.4 Duly perfected applications should be sent under
registered cover to the -
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
(Applications will not be acknowledged.).

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1094
5.5 The name of the Examination "Ahadiya/Al Quran
Madrasa Final Certificate Exam – 2012" and the chosen
town for the exam should be clearly written on the top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
5.6 No document should be annexed to the application.
The Principals of the Institutions should certify to the
effect that the applicant holds the stipulated
qualifications.
5.7 The Examination fee for all four subjects is Rs. 150 and
the fee for one repeat subject is Rs. 50. No Examination
fee will be charged from those who sit for this
examination for the first time.
6.Mode of Payment. – The amount which is equal to the total
Examination fees should be paid at any post office and the receipt
obtained should be firmly attached to the application.
7. Admission Cards.– Commissioner General of Examinations
shall issue the Admission Cards through the relevant Heads of the
Institutions. They will handover admission cards to the candidates.
7.1 In the event a candidate fails to produce his/her
Admission Card to the supervisor on the first instance
of sitting the examination or attempting to sit the
Examination at a Centre other than the one allocated to
him/her by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
his/her candidature can be cancelled.
7.2 The specimen signature of the candidate should be
attested by the Head of the relevant institution or by
an officer in permanent Government service drawing a
salary not less than Rs. 240,360 p. a., or by an Islamic
Priest of Mosque.
7.3 If Admission Card is not received by at least 7 days
before the date of commencement of the examination
the Head of the institution concerned should notify
the Commissioner General of Examinations accordingly.
In all such instances, information should be provided
as indicated below :
(a) Name of Examination,
(b) Name of Ahadhiya School/Madrasa/School and
the computer number provided to the school,
(c) Name of candidate in full and Address,
(d) The town which is applied for to the examination,
(e) Post Office from which the application was
posted,
(f) Registration number and date.
8. Personnel Identification. – Every applicant should prove his/
her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor on all instances he/
she appears for the examination by producing acceptable identity
documents.
9. Issue of the Examination Results and Confirmation of the
Result :
9.1 This examination consists of four papers. A candidate
who passes in all four papers in one and the same
sitting will be considered to have passed the
Examination.
9.2 However, if a candidate gets passed in 3 subjects and
fails to get through in the fourth subject in one and the
same sitting he/she will be allowed referral.
Such a candidate should get through the referred subject
within the subsequent two examinations in order to be
considered to have passed in this certificate examination.
(This will be effective from 2011 Examination).
Range of marks Grade Symbol
0 – 34 Fail F
35- 54 Ordinary pass S
55 – 69 Credit pass C
70 – 100 Distinction pass D
Release of the Results.– Details of examination results
will be posted to the relevant Heads of Institutions.
10. Certificates.– Action will be taken to issue a certificate to
every candidate passing the examination.
11. Re-scrutiny of Answer - scripts .– Opportunity will be
provided for the re-scrutiny of answer-scripts if requested within
30 days from the date of issue of examination resutls. Such request
should be made through the respective Heads of Institutions, using
the specimen form issued by this Department for this purpose.
A specified fee must be paid.
Such fee will be refunded only in instances where any alteration
is made to the examination results. Applicants or their
representatives will not be granted permission to examine the answer
scripts for any reason what-so-ever.
12. All applicants are bound to act in accordance with the above
conditions. Decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations
on any matter that is not dealt with in this notification will be the
final.
W. M. N. J. P
USHPAKUMARA,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
27th of May, 2013.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1095
ANNEXURE 1
Subjects and the prescribed Syllabus for the Examination :
There will be four question papers, of three hour duration each.
Structure of the question papers and marks allocation for the
questions will be according to the gazette notification published on
Gazette No. 1,358 of 10th September, 2004.
F
IRST PAPER
1.Aqeedha, Sharee'ah (Principles and Fundamentals in Islam) and
Arabic Language.
1.1 Aqeedha - General understandings (Al IIahiyath,
Annubuwath, Arroohaniyyath and Assam'iyyath)
1.2 Sections of Aqeedha
* Aqeeda of Ahlussunnah Wal Jama'ath
* Few other Aqeeda sections such as : Jabariya, Kadariyya,
Murjiya, Mu'tazila and Shee'ah
1.3 Tawheedh and Shirk
* Iman and Kufr
* Riddath, Nifak
* History of revelation and compilation of the Qur'an
* Use of Al-Qur'an as a source of Law
* Sunna and history of its collection
* Utilization of Sunna as source of Law
* History of Hadees and the contribution of Muhaddis
* Details relating to Ijthihad
* Ijma as a secondary source
* Kiyas as a secondary source
* History of Fikhu and its Imams.
1.4 Arabic Language :
* Writing with proper shapes of Alphabets
* Writing of small Sentences
* Writing of Arabic words having relation to the subject of
Islam
* Writing of specific Qur'an suras, verses and Hathees.
S
ECOND  PAPER
2. Al-Fiqhul Islami (Islamic Law)
2.1 Details Relating to Ibadath
* Kinds of Ibathath
* Thaharath
2.2 Najees and its categories :
* Methods of cleaning Najees
* Water and its categories
* Wulu, Thayammam and - Procedures existing relating to
bathing
2.3 Zakath :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations
* Collection and distribution
* Minimizing poverty through Zakath and distribution of
 Wealth
2.4 Assawm (Fasting) :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations and Usefulness
2.5 Hajj :
x Significance
x Rules and Regulations
x Usefulness
2.6 x Hajj - Method of Performance
x Farlu, Wajibu, Sunnath
x Hajj performed in addition to Farlu Hajj
2.7 Attention and procedures in Islam relating to food Dressing
and Dwellings.
2.8 Understanding of Jihadh.
2.9 Kurbani and methods of slaughter
2.10 Oaths and V ows.
2.11 Details relating to Muamalath :
x Dignity of earning
x Main transaction (Trading)
x Other transactions ( Eg. Borrowing, Rent)
x  Wakfu, Wasiyiyath, Warasath (Public Property,
  Testamentary Property, Inhertited Property)
2.12 Position of man and woman in Islam :
x Marriage Laws in Islam and their uses
x Family life in Islam
x Husband and wife
x Rights and duties of parents and Children
x Talaq and Idhdha
2.13 Jinayath :
x Hudood, Kisas and Ta'zeer
T
HIRD  PAPER
3. Seera and Tarigh
3.1 Socio-Religious position in Arabian Society in the period
before Islam.
3.1.1 Prophet Mohamed (Sal) :
x Life before the Nubuwwath
* Family Lineage
* Youthhood
* Noble characteristies
* Marriage

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1096
x Life between Nubuwwath and Hijrath
* Nubuwwath
* Propaganda of Islam and its outcomes
* Hijrath
x Madina Life
* Socio-Political activities
* Defensive wars and Peace Agreements
* Completion of Islam
x Position of Sahabas and their contribution towards
Islam
x History and Political contribution of Kulafa
Urrashidoon
x Period of rule by Umaiya and Abbasiya
x History of Baitul Mukaddas
x History and contributions of Sri Lankan Muslims
x Contribution of Muslims to Scientific Knowledge
x History relating to the following personalities :–
* Imam Buhari (Rah)
* Imam Shafi (Rah)
* Imam Gassali (Rah)
* Imam Abdul Cader Jeelani (Rah)
* Imam Saduli (Rah)
F
OURTH PAPER
4. Aklaq (Islamic Values)
4.1 View point of Islam on Aklaq
* Understanding Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Iman and Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Aqhlaq and Ibadath
* Purity of mind (Ikhlas)
4.2 Taqwa
* Wara'u and Suhud
* Murakaba, Muhasafa
* Shawq
4.3 Charity
* Dedication
* Gratitude
* Patience, Tolerance, accomodating, pardoning
* Politeness
* Appreciation of time
* Safeguarding organs in the body : mouth, eye, ear and sex
organs
* Respecting others
* Justice and honesty
* Important moral values visible among youth
* Harmonious living with people of other faiths
4.4 Islamic Jurisprudence
ANNEXURE II
Name of towns and their town Numbers where Examination
Centres will be Established :
Town Town District
No. No.
Colombo District 01
Colombo (Central) 01
Bambalapitiya 02
Gampaha District 02
Thihariya 03
Mabola 04
Malwana 05
Negombo 06
Kal-Eliya 07
Kalutara District 03
Panadura 08
Kalutara 09
Aluthgama 10
Galle District 04
Galle 11
Matara District 05
Weligama 12
Matara 13
Tangalle District 06
Hambantota 14
Kegalle District 07
Mawanella 15
Warakapola 16
Kannattota 17
Kurunegala District 08
Kuliyapitiya 18
Kurunegala 19
Melsiripura 20
Polgahawela 21
Kekunagolla 22
Puttalam District 09
Nuraichcholai 23
Puttalam 24
Chilaw 25
Anuradhapura District 10
Anuradhapura 26
Kekirawa 27
Galenbindunuwewa 28
Polonnaruwa District 11
Kaduruwela 29

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1097
Matale District 12
Matale 30
Kandy District 13
Kandy 31
Nawalapitiya 32
Deltota 33
Gelioya 34
Nuwara Eliya District 14
Nuwara Eliya 35
Ratnapura District 15
Eheliyagoda 36
Balangoda 37
Badulla District 16
Badulla 38
Welimada 39
Monaragala District 17
Bibila 40
Ampara District 18
Akkaraipattu 41
Pottuvil 42
Kalmunai 43
Sammanthurai 44
Irakkamam 45
Nintavur 46
Oluvil 47
Batticaloa District 19
Kattankudy 48
Eravur 49
Valachchenai 50
Trincomalee District 20
Mutur 51
Kinniya 52
Trincomalee 53
Vavuniya District 21
Vavuniya 54
Mannar District 22
Mannar 55
Mullaitivue District 23
Mullaitivu 56
Kilinochchi District 24
Kilinochchi 57
Jaffna District 25
Jaffna 58
06-341
Town Town District
No. No.
DEPARTMENT  OF  OFFICIAL  LANGUAGES
Open Competitive Examination to Recruit for the
Posts of Translators (Sinhala/English), (Tamil/English)
and (Sinhala/Tamil) in the Department of Official
Languages – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified Sri Lankan citizens to
recruit for the following posts in the Department of Official
Languages.
Translator (Sinhala/English) - 03 posts
Translator (Tamil/English) - 04 posts
Translator (Sinhala/Tamil) - 06 posts
02. Recruitments are done after examining the qualifications at a
general interview held on the results of a written examination conducted
by the Department of Official Languages.
03. Monthly Salary Scale.– Rs. 17,680 - 10x320 - 11x365 - 15x450
- Rs. 31,645. (MN-6-2006(A)).
04. The post is permanent and pensionable :
05. Qualifications.– Following qualifications are required for the
Posts of Translator (Sinhala/English), (Tamil/English) and (Sinhala/
Tamil) :
5.1 Educational qualifications :
Translator (Sinhala/English) :
01. Having obtained a degree with Sinhala language or
English language as a subject qualified from University
recognized by University Grants Commission ; and
(i) Having obtained a credit pass for English Language/
English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination
by the applicants those who are qualified in Sinhala
Language as a subject of the degree or having
obtained a credit pass for Sinhala Language and
Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination by the
applicants those who are qualified in English
Language as a subject of the degree ; or
(ii) Having obtained a minimum of ordinary pass for
English Language at G . C. E. (A/L) examination
by the applicants those who are qualified in Sinhala
Language as a subject of degree or having obtained
a minimum of ordinary pass for Sinhala Language
at G . C. E. (O/L) examination by the applicants
those who are qualified in English Language as a
subject of the degree ; or
02. Having obtained a degree qualified in "Language
Translation Methods" as a subject, from a university
recognized by Unviersity Grants Commission ; and

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1098
(i) Having obtained a credit pass for English Language/
English Literature and having obtained a credit
pass for Sinhala Language and Literature at
G . C. E. (O/L) examination ; or
(ii) Having obtained a minimum of ordinary pass for
English Language at G . C. E. (A/L) examination ;
or
03. Having obtained the final degree (Pandit) from Sri Lanka
Oriental Language Promotion Society ; and
(i) Having obtained a credit pass for English Language/
English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination ;
or
(ii) Having obtained a minimum of ordinary pass for
English Language at G. C. E. (A/L) examination.
Translator (Tamil/English) :
01. Having obtained a degree qualified in Tamil language or
English language as a subject from a University
recognized by University Grants Commission ; and
(i) Having obtained a credit pass for English Language/
English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination
by the applicants those who are qualified in Tamil
Language as a subject of the degree or having
obtained a credit pass for Tamil Language and
Literature at G. C. E. (A/L) by the applicants
those who are qualified in English Language as a
subject of the degree ; or
(ii) Having obtained a minimum of ordinary pass for
English Language at G . C. E. (A/L) examination
by the applicants those who are qualified in Tamil
Language as a subject of the degree or having
obtained a minimum of ordinary pass for Tamil
Language G . C. E. (A/L) examination by the
applicants those who are qualified in English
Language as a subject of the degree ; or
02.  Having obtained a degree qualified in "Language
Translation Methods" as a subject, from a university
recognized by Unviersity Grants Commission ; and
(i) Having obtained a credit pass for English Language/
English Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination
and having obtained a credit pass for Tamil
Language and Literature at  G. C. E. (O/L)
examination ; or
(ii) Having obtained a minimum of ordinary pass for
English Language at G . C. E. (A/L) examination
and having obtained a minimum of ordinary pass
for Tamil language at G . C. E. (A/L) examination.
Translator (Tamil/Sinhala) :
01. Having obtained a degree qualified in Tamil language or
Sinhala language as a subject from University
recognized by University Grants Commission ; and
(i) Having obtained a credit pass for Sinhala Language
and Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination by
the applicants those who are qualified in Tamil
Language as a subject of the degree or having
obtained a credit pass for Tamil Language and
Literature at G. C. E. (O/L) examination by the
applicants those who are qualified in Sinhala
Language as a subject of the degree ; or
(ii) Having obtained a minimum of ordinary pass for
Sinhala Language at G . C. E. (A/L) examination by
the applicants those who are qualified in Tamil
Language as a subject of the degree or having
obtained a minimum of credit pass for Tamil
Language at   G . C. E. (A/L) examination by the
applicants those who are qualified in Sinhala
Language as a subject of the degree ; or
02.  Having obtained a degree qualified in "Language
Translation Methods" as a subject, from a university
recognized by Unviersity Grants Commission ; and
(i) Having obtained a credit pass for Sinhala Language
and Literature at G . C. E. (O/L) examination and
having obtained a credit pass for Tamil Language
and Literature at  G . C. E. (O/L) examination ; or
(ii) Having obtained a minimum of ordinary pass for
Sinhala Language at G . C. E. (A/L) examination
and having obtained a minimum of ordinary pass
for Tamil language at G . C. E. (A/L) examination ;
or
03. Having obtained the final degree (Pandit) from Sri Lanka
Oriental Language Promotion Society ; and
(i) Having obtained a credit pass for Tamil Language
at G . C. E. (O/L) examination ; or
(ii) Having obtained an ordinary pass for Tamil
Language at G. C. E. (A/L) examination.
5.2 Physical fitness.– Every applicant should be physically and
mentally able to serve at any place within Sri Lanka and to
discharge duties of the post.
5.3 Other :
1. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2. Applicants should have an excellent character ;
3. The applicant should have fulfilled all the qualifications
by every means to the date mentioned in the application
calling notification/ Gazette that all the required
qualifications have to be completed to recruit for the post.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1099
06. Terms of service :
(i) The Commissioner of Official Languages decides the
number of appointments and the effective date of
appointment. The Commissioner of Official Languages
has the Authority to fill a specified number of vacancies
or all the vacancies.
(ii) Should pass the efficiency bar test within three years
(03) of appointing to the post.
(iii) Language proficiency should be obtained according to
Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 within five
years (05) of receiving the apointment.
(iv) Appointing selected applicants. – Applicants will be
recruited to Grade II of the post according to provision
mentioned in procedural laws declared by special gazette
Notification No. 1,586/30 dated 20.02.2009 of Public
Service Commission and according to the provisions
mentioned in Establishment Code.
(v) All the recruitments will be in accordance with the
approved scheme of recruitment and the amendments
incorporated with such scheme of recruitment.
07. Age limit.– Should not be less than 21 and over 35 to the last
date of receiving applications.
08. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments are done according to
the results of a written test.
8.1 Written test will be held only in Colombo at the end of
July, 2013.
8.2 Subjects of the examination :
Question Paper Time Total marks Pass marks
Translator 1. Transl ation - 03 hours 100 40%
(Sinhala/English) Sinhala to English
2. Translation - 03 hours 100 40%
English to Sinhala
3. Sinhala Language 1/2 hours 100 40%
4. English Language 1/2 hours 100 40%
Translator 5. Translation - 03 hours 100 40%
(Tamil/English) T amil to English
6. Translation - 03 hours 100 40%
English to Tamil
7. Tamil Language 1/2 hours 100 40%
8. English Language 1/2 hours 100 40%
Translator 9. Translation - 03 hours 100 40%
(Sinhala/Tamil) Sinhala to Tamil
10. Translation - 03 hours 100 40%
Tamil to Sinhala
11. Sinhala Language 1/2 hours 100 40%
12. Tamil Language 1/2 hours 100 40%
8.3 Syllabus :
Question Paper Syllabus
Translator 1. Translation - Translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific,
(Sinhala/English) Sinhala to English technological, aesthetics, literature and religious documents from
Sinhala Language medium into English Languages medium.
2. Translation - Translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific,
English to Sinhala technological, aesthetics, literature and religious documents from
English Language medium into Sinhala Languages medium.
3. Sinhala language Essay writing, pre`cis writing, summarizing a given passage with own
words, sentence writing using given words, correcting grammar
mistakes, defining idioms, spellings.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1100
4. English language Essay writing, sentence writing using given words, defining idioms,
analyzing composite and complex phrases.
Translator 1. Translation - Translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific,
(Tamil/English) T amil to English technological, aesthetics, literature and religious documents from
Tamil Language medium into English Languages medium.
2. Translation - Translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific,
English to Tamil technological, aesthetics, literature and religious documents from
English Language medium to Tamil Language medium.
3. Tamil language Essay writing, pre`cis writing, summarizing a given passage with own
words, sentence writing using given words, correcting grammar
mistakes, defining idioms, spellings.
4. English language Essay writing, sentence writing using given words, defining idioms,
analyzing composite and complex phrases.
Translator 1. Translation Translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific,
(Sinhala/Tamil) Sinhala to Tamil technological, aesthetics, literature and religious documents from
Sinhala Language medium to Tamil Language medium.
2. Translation - Translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific,
Tamil to Sinhala technological, aesthetics, literature and religious documents from
Tamil Language medium to Sinhala Language medium.
3. Sinhala language Essay writing, pre`cis writing, summarizing a given passage with own
words, sentence writing using given words, correcting grammar
mistakes, defining idioms, spellings.
4. Tamil language Essay writing, sentence writing using given words, defining idioms,
analyzing composite and complex phrases.
Question Paper Syllabus
09. Punishment for poviding false information .– Correct
information should be indicated in the application while completing
the application. In case of revealing the disqualification of an applicant
his/her candidature could be cancelled at any time before the
examination, during the examination or after the examination according
to the rules of this examination. He/She could be dismissed from
public service at any time the given information were revealed
incorrect. Issuing an admission card for every applicant by the
Commissioner of Official Languages should not be considered as a
confirmation that he or she has fulfilled all the requirements to appear
for the examination. Candidates should abide by the rules imposed
by Commissioner of Official Languages regarding the examination.
In case of violation of any such rules he or she will be subjected to
any punishment imposed by the Commissioner of Official Languages.
10. Sinhala version of this text will be effective in the event of any
inconsistencies or discrepancies between Sinhala, Tamil and English
texts of this gazette notification.
11. Examination fee.– The examination fee is Rs. 300. This fee
could be paid to any Divisional Secretariat or District Secretariat
under the Head of revenue 2003-99-00 of Commissioner of Official
Languages. The receipt issued on payment has to be fixed in the
square given in the application properly in a manner not to detach
(keeping a copy of it in procession will be useful) Examination fee
will not be refunded for any reason.
12. Correct information has to be indicated in the application
while completing the application form. In case of revealing the
disqulaification of an applicant his/her candidature could be cancelled
at any time before the interview or during the interview or after the
interview according to the rules of this recruitment examination. He/
She could be dismissed from public service at any time the given
information were revealed incorrect.
13. Application has to be prepared using A4 (24cm x 29) size
papers in the manner :
13.1 Para 1 to 3.4 in page one ; and
13.2 Para 4 onwards in the next pages.
13.3 While preparing applications in applications with a Sinhala
title, the title should be indicated in English language in

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1101
addition to Sinhala language and in the applications with a
Tamil title, the title should be indicated in English language
in addition to Tamil language. The relevant information
should be furnished using applicants handwriting.
13.4 The heading "Recruitment to the Post of Translator
(Sinhala/English), (Tamil/English) and (Sinhala/Tamil) -
2013" has to be indicated in the top left hand corner of the
envelope.
13.5 The completed application should be sent by registered
post to address given below on or before 28.06.2013. Late
applications will not be accepted.
Commissioner of Official Languages,
Department of Official Languages,
No. 341/7, Bhasha Mandiraya,
Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.
13.6 The signature of the applicant given in the application
form has to be attested by a principal of a government
school, a justice of peace, commissioner of oath, notary
public, an authorized officer in the army or by a permanent
officer in public service receiving an annual salary of
Rs. 240,360 or above.
13.7 Those who are already in public service should send their
applications through their respective heads of Department/
Institute.
14. Any of the following documents should be produced to the
examiner in charge of the examination hall to confirm the identity of
the candidate.
(i) A valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Personal Registration.
(ii) A valid passport.
15. The Commissioner of Official Languages will take decisions
on any matter not mentioned in this notification. Applicants are
obliged to abide with the rules mentioned in this gazette notification.
16. Issuing an admission to a candidate does not confirm that he
or she has fulfilled all the requirements to appear in the examination.
By order of Public Service Commission,
J. D. C. J
AYASINGHE,
Commissioner of Official Languages,
Department of Official Languages.
No. 341/7, Bhasha Mandiraya,
Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya,
29th May, 2013.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF TRANSLATOR (SINHALA/ENGLISH),
(TAMIL/ENGLISH) AND (SINHALA/TAMIL)
For office use
The post applied :
(Indicate the relevant number)
01. Translator (Sinhala/English)
02. Translator (Tamil/English)
03. Translator (Sinhala/Tamil)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.2 Full name :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.3 Full name :–––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 NIC No. :
02. Address :
2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.2 Official address :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.3 Official address :–––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 The address to which the admission should be forwarded
:–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.5 Telepone No. :–––––––––––.
2.6 The district of permanent residence :–––––––––––.
2.7 The duration of residency :–––––––––––.
2.8 GS Division :–––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.2 Marital status :
Married - 1
Unmarried -2
(Indicate the relevant number)
3.3 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age to the date 28.06.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1102
04. Educational qualifications :
4.1 (a) Degree :–––––––––––.
(b) The year and the university of the degree obtained :
–––––––––––.
(c) Subjects of the degree :–––––––––––.
4.2 G . C. E. (A/L) :
(i) Year and the month of the examination :––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(iii) R esults :
Subject Pass
4.3 G . C. E. (O/L) :
(i) Year and the month of the examination :––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Pass Su bject Pass
05. Are you convicted by a court of law for an accusation at any
time :
(3 Mark in the appropriate square)
Yes N o
If ‘Yes’ give details :–––––––––––.
06. Examination Fees :
(i) The office to which the payment was made :–––––––––.
(ii) Receipt number and the date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Fix the receipt here in a manner not to detach
(keep a copy of the receipt in procession)
07. Declaration of the applicant :
I hereby declare that the information furnished by me in this
application is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and in
case it is revealed that I am a disqualified person according to the
rules and regulations of this recruitment examination, before the
examination or during the examination or after the examination I
agree to accept any decision taken to cancel my candidature.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Attestation to the applicant's signature :
I certify that the applicant .............................. is personally known
to me and he/she signed in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting.
Name :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
Official stamp :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(For applicants in Public Service at present)
Certification of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify the applicant ........................... has been serving
in this office since .......................... and his/her performance and
conduct is satisfactory and I have examined all the information given
above by referring all the office records personally and the information
given are accurate and he/she signed in my presence on ..............
2013.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Department :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
Official stamp :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–315
–––––––––––––––
Amendment
FOLLOWING AMENDMENTS ARE INCLUDED TO THE
NOTIFICATION OF EXAMINATIONS PUBLISHED IN
THE GAZETTE NOTIFICATION No. 1808 OF 26.04.2013
FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF SRI LANKA
EDUCATION ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
LIMITED Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to
class III of Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service – 2012 (2013)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2013
1103
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
English subject too is included in the note of para 04 (b) (ii). All
the qualifications should be completed to 27.05.2013 and the other
particulars in this para remain unchanged. Closing date of the
applications is 28.06.2013.
The clause "V alid Driving License" in para III of 11 (x) is removed
from the notification.
The Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to class
III of Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service on the Basis
of Seniority and Merit– 2012 (2013)
The clause "V alid Driving License" in para III of 09 (x) is removed
from the notification.All the qualifications should be completed to
27.05.2013
Closing date of receiving application is 28.06.2013.
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to class
III of Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service – 2012 (2013)
The clause "V alid Driving License" in para III of 09 (x) is removed
from the notification.All the qualifications should be completed to
27.05.2013
Closing date of receiving application is 28.06.2013.
06–416