

<!-- page 1 -->

Price : Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs. 4.50
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  01
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 04, 2003
[Certified on 4th April, 2003]
Printed on the Order of Government
PUBLIC  SERVICE PROVIDENT  FUND
(AMENDMENT)  ACT, No. 17 OF 2003

<!-- page 2 -->

Public Service Provident Fund (Amendment)
Act, No. 17 of 2003
1
2—H  017654—5,650 (02/2003)
L. D. — O. 93/2002.
[Certified on 4th April, 2003]
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  PUBLIC  SERVICE  PROVIDENT  FUND
O RDINANCE
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. This Act may be cited as the Public Service Provident
Fund (Amendment) Act, No. 17  of 2003.
2. Section 2 of the Public Service Provident Fund
Ordinance (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the insertion immediately
after subsection (4A ) of that section, of the following new
subsection :—
“(4B ) In respect of a person who holds a non-
pensionable post in the service of the
Government and who is entitled for a daily
pay —
(a) the total of the daily payments made
to such person during a calendar
month or part thereof ; or
(b) the monthly allowance paid to such
person in lieu of a salary for that
period,
shall be deemed to be the monthly salary of such
person.”.
3. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) of that
section, of the following new subsection :—
“(2A ) The compulsory contribution of a
non-pensionable employee referred to in
subsection (4B ) of section 2, shall be calculated,
on the basis of the monthly salary received by
such person in accordance with the aforesaid
subsection.”.
Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 2 of
Chapter 434.
Short title.

<!-- page 3 -->

Public Service Provident Fund (Amendment)
Act, No. 17 of 2003
2
4. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof, and the
substitution therefor, of the following new subsection :—
“(1) Subject to the provisions of this
Ordinance, on the death of the contributor :—
(a) if the amount payable does not
amount to, or does not exceed in
value the sum specified by the
provisions of the Civil Procedure
Code (Chapter 101) as being the
sum above which the institution of
testamentary proceedings is
mandatory, the Director of
Pensions shall pay such amount in
the manner prescribed, to the
person or persons nominated by
the deceased contributor for such
purpose. If no such nomination has
been made, such amount can either
be paid by the Director of Pensions
to the person or persons entitled by
law to receive the same or where a
case for the settlement of the estate
of the deceased contributor has
been filed, such amount shall be
paid to the credit of the case ;
(b) if the amount payable exceeds in
value the sum specified by the
provisions of the Civil Procedure
Code (Chapter 101) as being the
sum above which the institution of
testamentary proceedings is
mandatory, the Director of
Pensions shall pay such amount to
the credit of the testamentary case
filed for the settlement of the estate
of the deceased contributor :
Provided however, the Director of Pensions
may at his discretion, where it appears that
immediate financial relief is essential to the
Amendment of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Public Service Provident Fund (Amendment)
Act, No. 17 of 2003
3
spouse or children or other dependants of the
deceased contributor for the settlement of
funeral expenses, pay a sum not exceeding ten
thousand rupees to the spouse or children or
other dependants of the deceased contributor.”.
5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
any inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

Public Service Provident Fund (Amendment)
Act, No. 17 of 2003
4
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS   HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in   respect
 of the year following.