

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 217]
————————
Presented by the Minister of Industry and Commerce
on 25th of November, 2017
(Published in the Gazette on October 09, 2017)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 118.00 Postage : Rs. 70.00
2-2d
2-
2-PL 010513 —510 (11/2017)
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
ANTI-DUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
to provide for the investigation and imposition of Anti-Dumping
Duties  and   Countervailing   Duties   with  regard  to  products  imported
into Sri Lanka and for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto.

<!-- page 2 -->

THE STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT
Clause 2:  This Clause amends section 7 of the Inland Revenue Act, No.10 of 2006
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effect of the section as
amended is to exempt Diabetic  Association of Sri Lanka from the payment of income tax
and to correct an error in that section.
Clause 3:  This Clause amends section 8 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of the section as amended is to exempt benefit from loan provided to employees by
employer.
Clause 4:  This Clause amends section 9 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of the section as amended is to expand the applicability of exemption to interest income of
individual who is 60 years and over 60 years.
Clause 5:  This clause amends section 10 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of the section as amended is to expand the exemption to dividend paid out by new
undertaking for manufacture of products for export.
Clause 6:  This Clause amends section 13 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of the section as amended is—
(a) to provide concession to award winning films or dramas in international
festivals;
(b) to exempt the profits earned by the way of royalty from information technology
or business processes outsourcing company in Sri Lanka;
(c) to exempt profits of Unit Trusts from US Dollar Deposit or US Dollar denominated
securities listed in foreign stock exchanges.
Clause 7:  This Clause amends section 25 of the principal enactment and  the legal
effect of the section as amended is to—
(a) rectify some errors in that section;
(b) provide concession to investments in manufacturing companies for export;
(c) provide concession to research on innovation or high value agricultural
product;
(d) provide concession to standard skill development training;
(e) provide concession to Brand Promotion for export of products.
Clause 8:  This Clause amends section 26 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of the section as amended is to disallow the deduction of the Nation Building Tax, and
Super Gain Tax and other Levies imposed under the Finance Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

Clause 9:  This Clause amends section 32 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of the section as amended is to—
(a) rectify some errors in that section ;
(b) provide to carry forward losses after consolidation, acquisition or merger of
bank, financial institution or leasing company.
Clause 10:  This Clause amends section 34 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is—
(a) to expand the applicability of qualifying payment deduction for National Kidney
Fund ;
(b) to rectity an error in that section ;
(c) to provide deduction of expenditure incurred in the merger of banks, finance
companies and leasing companies.
Clause 11:  This Clause amends section 39 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to rectify some errors in that section.
Clause 12:  This Clause amends section 40B of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to restrict the applicability of concession.
Clause 13:  This Clause amends section 40C of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to provide concessionary tax rate on the employment
income of employees.
Clause 14:  This Clause amends section 45 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to provide concessionary tax for undertakings for
manufacture of sugar.
Clause 15:  This Clause amends section 46 of the principal enactment and is consequential
to the amendment made by clause 14.
Clause 16:  This Clause inserts new section 48D in the principal enactment and the new
section provide for the extension of period for the fulfillment of investments criteria by
B.O.I. Companies.
Clause 17:  This Clause amends section 56D of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to expend the applicability of concession to packing
items and ceramic products.
Clause 18:  This Clause amends section 58 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to expand to concessionary rate of tax for Freight
Forwarders providing services for export of goods.
Clause 19:  This Clause amends section 59B of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to expand the concession to certain other companies also.
Clause 20:  This Clause amends section 59F of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to further clarify the manner of computing tax for the
purpose of that section.

<!-- page 4 -->

Clause 21:  This Clause inserts new sections 59I, 59J, 59K, 59L and 59M in the
principal enactment and the legal effect of the new sections are—
(a) to provide concessionary rate of tax for expansion of manufacturing companies;
(b) to provide concessionary rate of tax for new manufacturing  companies for six
years;
(c) to provide concession to local manufacturers who have been in business since
1970;
(d) to provide concession to promote intercropping activities and food processing
activities;
(e) to provide concession for undertakings located in any lagging region.
Clause 22 :   This Clause clarifies section 61 of the principal enactment.
Clause 23 :   This Clause clarifies section 63 of the principal enactment.
Clause 24 :   This Clause amends section 94 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to provide fees for technical services also as deemed
profit under that section.
Clause 25 :   This Clause amends section 95 of the principal enactment and is
consequential to the amendment made by Clause 24.
Clause 26 :   This Clause inserts a new section 105A in the principal enactment and the
new section provides for the use of electronic communication and electronic records for
the purpose of Act.
Clause 27 :   This Clause amends section 106 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to rectify an error in that section.
Clause 28 :   This Clause amends section 107 of the principal enactment and extends the
definition of “approved accountant” by including a member of the Association of
Accounting Technicians of Sri Lanka.
Clause 29 :   This Clause amends section 115 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to enhance the personal allowance of employees to
seven hundred and fifty thousand rupees.
Clause 30 :   This Clause amends section 133 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to rectify some errors in that section.
Clause 31 :   This Clause amends section 137 of the principal enactment and which is
consequential to the amendment made by Clause 9.
Clause 32 :   This Clause amends section 139 of the principal enactment to further
clarify that section.

<!-- page 5 -->

Clause 33 :   This Clause amends section 150 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to enable return to be made by banks and financial
institution on a quarterly basis.
Clause 34 :   This Clause amends section 159 of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of the amendment is to provide returns to be furnished on a quarterly basis under
that section
Clause 35 :   This Clause amends section 163 of the principal enactment to clarify that
section.
Clause 36 :   This Clause amends section 212 of the principal enactment and provide for
regulations to be made to issue guidelines for the calculation of tax after amalgamation or
merger of banks and financial institutions and leasing companies and for the implementation
of the electronic communication and records for the purpose of the Act.
Clause 37 :   This Clause amends the Second Schedule to the principal enactment to
rectify some errors in such Schedule.
Clause 38 :   This Clause amends Fifth Schedule to the principal enactment and which
is consequential to the amendment made by Clause 20.
Clause 39 :   This Clause provides validation to the tax charged and collected by the
Commissioner-General, during the period commencing from April 1, 2015 and ending on
the date on which the Certificate is endorsed by the Speaker.

<!-- page 6 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 1
5
10
15
2—PL 010345—475  (09/2017)
20
L.D.—O.68/2016
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE INVESTIGATION AND IMPOSITION OF ANTI-
DUMPING DUTIES AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES WITH REGARD TO
PRODUCTS IMPORTED INTO SRI LANKA AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS Sri Lanka was one of the original contracting
parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of
1947(GATT 1947):
AND WHEREAS the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
1994 (GATT 1994) which is based upon the text of GATT
1947 and was signed in April 1994, includes among others
the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 and the
Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures:
AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka intends to protect the domestic
industries from prohibited and actionable subsidies and
dumping:
AND WHEREAS it is expedient to make legislative
provisions for the implementation in Sri Lanka of the two
agreements referred to above:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Anti-Dumping and
Countervailing Duties Act, No.  of 2017, and shall come
into operation on such date as the Minister may appoint, by
Order published in the Gazette.
Preamble.
Short title
and date of
operation.

<!-- page 7 -->

2 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
5
10
15
20
25
PART I
ANTI-DUMPING DUTIES
2. Anti-dumping duties may be imposed on products
imported into Sri Lanka, where the Director-General
determines pursuant to an investigation initiated and
conducted in accordance with the provisions of this Part of
this Act, that —
(a) the investigated product is being dumped;
(b) there is injury being caused to the Sri Lankan
industry; and
(c) there exists a causal link between the dumping and
the injury caused.
3. Where imports of like products from more than one
country are the subject of simultaneous anti-dumping duty
investigations, the Director-General may, for the purpose of
determining whether injury exists, cumulatively assess the
effects of such dumped imports on the Sri Lankan industry,
only where —
(a) the applications are filed under section 14 of this
Act;
(b) the Director-General determines that the amount of
dumping established in relation to the investigated
product imported from each country is more than
de minimis and the volume of investigated products
imported from each country is not negligible as
specified in section 20 of this Act; and
(c) the Director-General determines that a cumulative
assessment of the effects of the imports of
investigated product is appropriate in the light of
the conditions of competition between the imported
Assessment
of effects.
General
principle.
30

<!-- page 8 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 3
5
10
15
20
product and the conditions of competition between
the imported products and the domestic like
product.
ESTABLISHING THE NORMAL VALUE
4. (1) For the purposes of this Part of this Act, the
Director-General may determine the normal value of an
investigated product, on the basis of the comparable price
paid or payable in the ordinary course of trade for the like
product, when destined for consumption in the domestic
market of the exporting country.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
Director-General may determine the normal value on the
basis of comparable price paid or payable in the ordinary
course of trade for the like product when destined for
consumption in the domestic market of the country of origin,
where —
(a) the products are merely trans-shipped through the
country of export;
(b) products are not produced in the country of export;
or
(c) there is no comparable price for them in the country
of export.
(3) Where under subsection (2), the normal value is
determined on the basis of the country of origin, reference in
sections 5, 6, 7 and 9 to the “exporting country”, shall be
deemed to be a reference to the country of origin.
5. (1) Where there are no sales in the ordinary course of
trade of the like product in the domestic market of the
exporting country under subsection (1) of section 4, or where,
because of the particular market situation or the low volume
25
30
Basis for
determining
normal
value.
Normal value
to be based
on export
price to a
third
country.

<!-- page 9 -->

4 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
of the sales in the domestic market of the exporting country,
such sales do not permit a proper comparison, the normal
value of the investigated product shall be —
(a) the comparable price paid or payable in the
ordinary course of trade for the like product exported
to any appropriate third country, provided that such
price shall be representative; or
(b) the cost of production of such product including
administrative, selling and general costs in the
exporting country, plus a reasonable amount for
profits.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), sales of like product
destined for consumption in the domestic market of the
exporting country or the appropriate third country, shall
normally be considered to be a sufficient quantity for the
determination of the normal value, if such sales constitute
five per centum  or more of the sales of the investigated
product to Sri Lanka, except that a lower ratio shall be
acceptable where the evidence shows that domestic sales at
such lower ratio are of sufficient magnitude to provide for a
proper comparison.
6. (1) Sales of the like product in the domestic market
of  the exporting country, or sales to a third country at prices
below per unit (fixed and variable) cost of production, may
be treated as not being in the ordinary course of trade by
reason of price, and may be disregarded in determining
normal value, only where the Director-General determines
that such sales are made—
(a) within an extended period of time (which generally
is twelve months and not less than six months) in
substantial quantities; and
(b) at prices which do not provide for the recovery of
all costs within a reasonable period of time.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Sales not in
the ordinary
course of
trade.

<!-- page 10 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 5
(2) For the purpose of paragraph ( a) of subsection (1),
sales below cost shall be considered to be made in substantial
quantities, where it is established that—
(a) the weighted average selling price of the
transactions under consideration is below the
weighted average cost; or
(b) the volume of sales below cost represent twenty
per centum  or more of the volume sold in the
transactions under consideration.
(3) Where prices which are below per unit cost at the time
of sale, are above weighted average per unit cost for the
period of investigation or review, the Director-General shall
consider such prices as providing for the recovery of costs
within a reasonable period of time.
7. (1) For the purpose of subsection (1) of section 5 of
this Act, costs shall generally be calculated on the basis of
records maintained by the exporter or producer under
investigation, provided that such records—
(a) are maintained in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles of the exporting
country; and
(b) reasonably reflect the costs associated with the
production and sale of the like product.
(2) The Director-General shall consider all available
evidence on the proper allocation of costs, including any
evidence made available by the exporter or producer in the
course of the investigation of allocations which have been
historically utilized by the exporter or producer, in particular
in relation to establishing appropriate amortization and
depreciation periods, and allowances for capital
expenditures and other development costs.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Calculation
of cost for
purpose
subsection
(1) of
section 5.

<!-- page 11 -->

6 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(3) Unless already reflected in the cost allocations under
this section, costs shall be adjusted appropriately for those
non-recurring items of cost which benefit future or current
production, or for circumstances in which costs during the
period of investigation are affected by start-up operations.
(4) The adjustment made for start-up operations shall
reflect the costs at the end of the start-up period or, if that
period extends beyond the period of investigation, the most
recent costs which can reasonably be taken into account by
the Director-General during the investigation.
8. (1) The cost of production of the like product for
the purpose of sections 5 and 6 of this Act, shall be the total
sum of —
(a) the cost of materials whether direct or indirect and
fabrication or processing in the production of the
investigated product in the exporting country; and
(b) a reasonable amount for administrative, selling and
general costs (including financial cost and profits).
(2) The determination of the amounts referred to in
subsection (1) shall be based on actual data pertaining to
production and sales in the ordinary course of trade of the
like product in the exporting country, by the producer or
exporter under investigation or review. Where such amounts
cannot be determined on this basis, the amounts may be
determined on the basis of —
(a) the actual amounts incurred and realized by the
exporter or producer under investigation or review,
in respect of production and sales in the domestic
market of the country of origin, of the same general
category of products;
(b) the weighted average of the actual amounts incurred
and realized by other exporters or producers subject
5
10
15
20
25
30
Determining
of cost of
production.

<!-- page 12 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 7
to investigation, in respect of production and sales
of the like products in the domestic market of the
country of origin; or
(c) any other reasonable method, provided that, the amount
for profit so established shall not exceed the profit
normally realized by other exporters or producers on
sales of products of the same general category in the
domestic market of the country of origin.
(3) In computing the constructed value of the investigated
product, the Director-General may disregard any cost arising
out of a transaction directly or indirectly between related
parties or among parties which appear to have compensatory
arrangements with each other, unless that cost is comparable
to the costs between unrelated parties or parties which do
not have compensatory arrangements with each other.
(4) If a transaction is disregarded under subsection (3)
and there are no other transactions available for
consideration, the determination of the amounts required to
be considered under subsection (1), shall be based on the
facts available as to what the amounts would have been if
the transaction had occurred between unrelated parties or
parties without the compensatory arrangements.
9. (1) The export price of an investigated product shall
be the price actually paid or payable for the investigated
product, when sold for export from the exporting country to
Sri Lanka.
(2) Where there is no export price or where it appears to
the Director-General that the export price is unreliable
because of an association or a compensatory arrangement
between the exporter and the importer or a third party, the
export price may be constructed—
(a) on the basis of the price at which the imported
products are first resold to an independent buyer; or
5
10
15
20
25
30
Export price.

<!-- page 13 -->

8 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(b) if the products are not resold to an independent
buyer, or not resold in the condition as imported,
on such reasonable basis as the Director-General
may determine.
(3) If the export price is constructed in the manner
specified in subsection (2), allowance shall be made for cost
incurred between importation and resale of the investigated
product.
(4) Where, under subsection (2) of section 4 of this Act,
the Director-General determines the normal value on the
basis of the country of origin, the export price shall be the
price actually paid or payable for the investigated product
when sold for export in the country of origin.
10. (1) A fair comparison shall be made by the Director-
General between the export price and the normal value of
any investigated product and such comparison shall be made
at the same level of trade, generally at the ex-factory level,
and in respect of sales made at, as nearly as possible, the
same time.
(2) In the comparison of normal value and export price
under subsection (1), due allowance shall be made in each
case on its merits to:—
(a) differences which affect price comparability;
(b) differences in conditions and terms of sale, taxation,
levels of trade, quantities, physical characteristics;
and
(c) any other differences which are demonstrated by
parties interested as affecting price comparability.
(3) The Director-General when acting under subsection
(2), shall ensure that no duplication takes place in the
adjustments made.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Comparison
of normal
value and
export price.

<!-- page 14 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 9
(4) In cases where export price is constructed under
paragraph ( a) of subsection (2) of section 9 of this Act,
allowances for costs, including duties and taxes incurred
between importation and resale, and a reasonable amount
for profit accruing, may also be made, and the Director-
General  shall, where price comparability has been affected,
establish the normal value at a level of trade equivalent to
the level of trade of the export price constructed under that
paragraph, or shall make due allowances as warranted under
this section.
(5) To ensure that a fair comparison is being done, the
Director-General shall indicate to the parties in question the
information that is required from them and shall not impose
any unreasonable burden of proof on the parties in question.
11. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 10, the
existence of dumping margin shall, generally be established
on the basis of a comparison of a weighted average normal
value with a weighted average of prices of all comparable
export transactions, or by a comparison of normal value and
export prices on a transaction to transaction basis.
(2) A normal value established on a weighted average
basis may be compared to prices of individual export
transactions, if the Director-General finds a pattern of export
prices which differ significantly among different purchasers,
regions or time periods. It shall be the duty of the Director-
General to explain in such cases, why such difference cannot
be taken into account appropriately, by the use of a weighted
average to weighted average or transaction to transaction
comparison.
12. (1) Where the comparison of normal value and
export price under sections 10 and 11 requires a conversion
of currencies, that conversion, subject to subsections (3)
and (5), shall be made using the rate of exchange on the date
of sale.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Comparison
methods.
Currency
conversion.

<!-- page 15 -->

10 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(2) The date of sale shall, generally be the date of contract,
purchase order, order confirmation or invoice whichever
establishes the material terms of the sale of the exported
product.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) or
(2), when a forward rate of exchange is used in relation to an
export sale, the Director-General shall use the rate of
exchange in the forward sale, for all the related transactions.
(4) Where —
(a) the comparison referred to in subsection (1)
requires conversion of currencies; and
(b) the rate of exchange between those currencies
has undergone a short-term fluctuation,
the Director-General shall, for the purposes of that
comparison, disregard that fluctuation.
(5) Where —
(a) the comparison referred to in subsection (1)
requires conversion of currencies; and
(b) the Director-General is satisfied that the rate of
exchange between those currencies has
undergone a sustained movement during the
period of investigation,
the Director-General shall allow exporters not less than sixty
days to adjust their export prices, to reflect the sustained
movement.
13. (1) The Director-General shall as a rule, determine
an individual dumping margin for each known exporter or
producer of the investigated product.
5
10
15
20
25
Individual
dumping
margins.

<!-- page 16 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 11
(2) Where the number of exporters, producers, importers
or types of the investigated product is so large as to make it
impracticable to determine an individual dumping margin
for each known exporter or producer, the Director-General
may limit the examination either to a reasonable number of
parties interested or investigated products, by using samples
which are statistically valid on the basis of information
available to the Director-General at the time of the selection,
or to the largest percentage of the volume of the exports
from the country in question which can reasonably be
investigated.
(3) Any selection of exporters, producers, importers or
types of products made under subsection (2), shall preferably
be chosen in consultation with and with the consent of the
exporters, producers or importers concerned.
(4)Where the Director-General has limited the
examination under this section, it shall nevertheless
determine an individual dumping margin for any exporter
or producer who voluntarily submits the necessary
information in time for that information to be considered
during the course of the investigation.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (4),
where the number of exporters or producers is so large that
individual examinations would be unduly burdensome to
the Director-General and prevent the timely completion of
the investigation, the Director-General may decline to
determine an individual dumping margin on the basis of
voluntary responses, and limit the examination to the
exporters and producers in the sample.
INITIATION OF INVESTIGATION
14. (1) Except as provided for in section 19, an
investigation under this Part of this Act shall be initiated
upon a written application in the prescribed form being made
by or on behalf of a Sri Lankan industry, accompanied by
such fee as may be prescribed.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Requirement
of a written
application.
35

<!-- page 17 -->

12 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(2) Applications shall be submitted to the Director-
General in such a number of copies, as the Director-General
may determine.
(3) For the purposes of this section, an application shall
be considered to have been made “by or on behalf of a Sri
Lankan industry”, if such application is supported by those
Sri Lankan producers whose collective output constitutes
more than fifty per centum  of the total production of the
domestic like product produced by that portion of the Sri
Lankan industry, expressing either support for or opposition
to the application:
Provided that, those producers who express their support
to the application shall be accounted for not less than twenty-
five per centum of the total production of the domestic like
product, produced by the Sri Lankan industry.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), in
the case of fragmented industries involving an exceptionally
large number of producers, the Director-General may
determine support and opposition, by using statistically
valid sampling techniques.
15. An application form prescribed under section 14
shall provide for the submission of such information as is
reasonably available to the applicant, on the following
matters:—
(a) name, address and telephone number of the
applicant;
(b) a description of the volume and value of the
domestic like product produced by the applicant;
(c) the identity of the Sri Lankan industry by or on
behalf of which the application is being made,
including the names, addresses and telephone
numbers of all other known producers of the like
5
10
15
20
25
30
Information.

<!-- page 18 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 13
product in the Sri Lankan industry, and a description
to the extent available to the applicant, of the
volume and value of the like product accounted for
by such known producers;
(d) complete description of the allegedly dumped
product, including the technical characteristics and
uses of the product and its harmonized commodity
description and coding system classification;
(e) the name of the country in which the allegedly
dumped product is manufactured or produced, and
if it is imported from a country other than the
country of manufacture or production, the
intermediate  country from which the product is
imported;
(f) the name and address of each person, the applicant
believes, sells the allegedly dumped product and
the proportion of total exports to Sri Lanka that
person accounted for, during the most recent twelve-
months period;
(g) information on prices at which the product in
question is sold, when destined for consumption
in the domestic market of the country of export
or origin, or where appropriate, information on
the prices at which the product is sold from the
country  of export or origin to a third country or
on the constructed value of the allegedly dumped
product;
(h) information on export prices or, where appropriate,
on the prices at which the allegedly dumped
product  is first resold to an independent buyer in
Sri Lanka, and on any adjustments as provided for
in section 10 of this Act; and
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 19 -->

14 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(i) information on the evolution of the volume of the
allegedly dumped imports, the effect of these
imports on prices of the domestic like products in
the Sri Lankan market and the consequent impact
of the imports on the Sri Lankan industry, as
demonstrated by relevant factors and indices having
a bearing on the state of the Sri Lankan industry,
such as those listed in section 76, subsections (1),
(2) and (3) of section 77 and section 78 of this Act,
and information on the existence of a causal link as
provided for in subsections (4), (5), (6) and (7) of
section 77.
16. (1) The Director-General and the Minister shall,
unless a decision has been made to initiate an investigation,
avoid any publicity being given to the application for the
initiation of an investigation, under section 14.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
Director-General shall, upon receipt of an application
fulfilling the requirements of section 15 of this Act,
immediately notify the government of each exporting
country concerned, of such fact.
17. An application made under section 14 may be
withdrawn:—
(a) at any time prior to the initiation of an investigation,
in which case it shall be considered to have not
been made; or
(b) at any time after an investigation has been initiated,
in which case the Director-General shall terminate
the investigation without measures, unless he
determines that it shall be continued in the economic
interest of Sri Lanka.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Publicizing
of the
application.
Withdrawal
of an
application.

<!-- page 20 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 15
18. (1) The Director-General shall, having examined
the accuracy and adequacy of the evidence provided in the
application, determine whether there is sufficient evidence
to justify the initiation of an investigation. In arriving at a
decision, the Director-General may where necessary, seek
further information from the applicant.
(2)  Where the Director-General determines that —
(a) the application is made by or on behalf of a
Sri Lankan industry; and
(b) there is sufficient evidence of dumping, injury
and causal link within the meaning of this
Act,
the Director-General shall decide, within forty days of
receipt of the application, whether or not to initiate an
investigation.
19. The Minister may, in special circumstances direct
the Director-General to initiate an investigation, without
having an application being made by or on behalf of the Sri
Lankan industry, for the initiation of such investigation,
where —
(a) the Director-General submits to the Minister
sufficient evidence of dumping, injury and a causal
link, within the meaning of this Act, to justify the
initiation of an investigation; and
(b) the Director-General recommends the initiation of
an investigation on the basis of the available
evidence.
5
10
15
20
25
Decision to
initiate.
Self-
initiation.

<!-- page 21 -->

16 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
20. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 18 and
section 19 of this Act, the Director-General shall not initiate
an investigation, where from information available to the
Director-General, he determines that —
(a) imports of the allegedly dumped product from that
country into Sri Lanka represent less than three per
centum of total imports of the allegedly dumped
and like product in Sri Lanka, unless imports of the
allegedly dumped product from countries under
investigation, which individually account for less
than three per centum of the imports of the allegedly
dumped and like product in Sri Lanka, collectively
account for more than seven per centum of imports
of the allegedly dumped and  like product in Sri
Lanka; or
(b) the dumping margin is less than two per centum ,
expressed as a percentage of the export price.
21. (1) Where an investigation is initiated under this
Part of this Act, the Director-General shall:—
(a) notify of such investigation to the exporters,
importers and representative associations of
importers or exporters known to the Director-
General to be concerned, as well as representatives
of the exporting countries, the complainants and
any other parties interested; and
(b) give public notice by publishing a notice in any
newspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka, in all
three languages.
(2) The notification and public notice referred to in
subsection (1), shall contain adequate information on the
following matters:—
(a) the name of the country or countries of export, and
if different, the country or countries of origin, of
the investigated product;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Negligible
import
volumes and
de minimis
dumping
margins.
Public notice
of
determination
to initiate an
investigation.

<!-- page 22 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 17
(b) a complete description of the investigated product,
including the technical characteristics and uses of
the product and its harmonized commodity
description and coding system classification;
(c) a description of the alleged dumping to be
investigated, including the basis for such
allegations;
(d) a summary of the factors on which the allegations
of injury and casual link are based;
(e) the address to which information and comments
may be submitted;
(f) the date of initiation of the investigation; and
(g) the proposed schedule for the conduct of the
investigation.
(3) The initiation of an investigation shall be deemed to
have commenced on the date on which the public notice
required under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) is published.
22. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 25 relating
to the protection of confidential information, the Director-
General shall, as soon as an investigation is initiated, provide
the full text of the written application received under section
14, to all known exporters and foreign producers and to the
authorities of the exporting country, and upon request, make
it available to any other parties interested in such
investigation.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),
where the number of exporters involved is large, the Director-
General may provide the text of the application to any
relevant trade associations or, where that is not so possible,
to the authorities of the exporting countries.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Disclosure of
application.

<!-- page 23 -->

18 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
CONDUCT OF INVESTIGATION
23. It shall be the duty of the Director-General except in
special circumstances, to conclude an anti-dumping investigation
within a period of twelve months of its initiation and in no case
more than a period of eighteen months of its initiation.
24. The initiation of an anti-dumping investigation
shall not hinder the procedures of customs clearance, and
once measures are adopted, no additional formalities other
than those required for the application of those measures,
shall be applied.
25. (1) The Director-General shall keep confidential,
all information submitted which is entitled to such treatment
under subsection (2) of this section, and such information
shall not be disclosed without specific permission of the
party submitting it.
(2) The Director General shall treat as confidential all
information designated as confidential by the party
supplying such information, which is protected from
disclosure under the Right to Information Act, No. 12 of
2016.
(3) The following types of information, if designated as
confidential by the person submitting such information, shall
for the purpose of subsection (2) be deemed to be supplied
in confidence in terms of paragraph (i) of section 5(1) of the
Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016  —
(a) business or trade secrets concerning the nature of a
product, production processes, operations,
production equipment, or machinery;
(b) information concerning the financial condition of
a company which is not publicly available; and
(c) information concerning the costs, identification of
customers, sales, inventories, shipments, amount
or source of any income, profit, loss or expenditure
related to the manufacture and sale of a product.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Duration of
investigation.
Customs
clearance.
Confidentiality.

<!-- page 24 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 19
(4) A party to an investigation may seek confidential
status for certain information made available to the Director-
General on request being made in that behalf at the time
such information is submitted, including reasons for the
request for such treatment. The Director-General shall
consider such requests expeditiously, and shall inform the
party submitting the information, if he determines that the
request for confidential treatment is not warranted.
(5) Parties to an investigation shall furnish non-
confidential summaries of all information for which
confidential treatment is sought, which may take the form of
indexation of figures provided in the confidential version,
or marked deletions in the text and which shall permit a
reasonable understanding of the substance of the information
submitted in confidence.
(6) In exceptional circumstances, parties may indicate
that information for which confidential treatment is sought
is not susceptible of summary, in which case a statement of
the reasons why summarization is not possible, shall also be
provided by such parties.
(7) Where the Director-General is of the view that the
non-confidential summary provided under subsection (5)
fails to satisfy the requirements of that subsection, the
Director-General may determine that the request for
confidential treatment is not warranted, and where in such
instance the supplier of the information is unwilling to make
the information public, the Director-General shall disregard
such information, and return the information concerned to
the party who submitted it, unless it is demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Director-General that the information is
correct.
26. (1) Where, at any time during an investigation, any
party interested —
(a) refuses access to, or otherwise does not provide any
necessary information within the time determined
by the Director-General; or
5
10
15
20
25
30
Reliance on
information
available.
35

<!-- page 25 -->

20 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(b) otherwise significantly impedes the investigation,
the Director-General may reach preliminary and final
determinations (affirmative or negative), on the basis of the
information available, including information contained in
the application. The provisions of the First Schedule to this
Act, shall be followed by the Director-General in reaching a
determination under this subsection.
(2) The Director-General shall take due account of any
difficulties experienced by parties interested, in particular
small companies, in supplying information requested for,
and as such shall provide any practicable assistance or may
extend the time granted for the submission of any specified
information, as the case may be.
27. (1) The Director-General shall establish and
maintain a public file relating to each investigation or review
conducted under this Act. Subject to the provisions of
section 25, the Director-General shall place in the public
file:—
(a) all public notices relating to the investigation or
review;
(b) all material, including questionnaires, responses to
questionnaires, and written communications
submitted to the Director-General;
(c) all other information developed or attained by the
Director-General including any verification reports
prepared under section 33; and
(d) any other documents the Director-General deems
appropriate for public disclosure.
(2) The public file shall be made available to the public
for review and copying at the office of the Director-General,
throughout the period of the investigation, review and any
resulting judicial review.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Public file
and access
thereto.

<!-- page 26 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 21
INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE
28. The Director-General shall, in the notice published
under section 21 of the initiation of an investigation, include
the proposed procedure for the conduct of the investigation,
including the proposed time-limits for submission of written
arguments, the proposed date for any hearing if requested,
the proposed date for the preliminary determination and the
proposed date for the final determination.
29. (1) Upon the initiation of an investigation, the
Director-General shall send questionnaires to any person,
he believes, may have information relevant to the
investigation, including domestic producers, importers,
exporters and foreign producers.
(2) The Director-General shall grant the exporters and
foreign producers to whom the questionnaire is sent, a period
not less than thirty seven days for reply, beginning from the
date on which the questionnaire was sent to the respondent
or transmitted to the appropriate diplomatic or official
representative of the exporting country. The Director-General
shall give due consideration to any request for an extension
of the time granted to reply and shall grant such an extension
whenever practicable, upon good cause shown, taking into
consideration the time limits set for the conclusion of the
investigation.
(3) The Director-General may disregard any reply to a
questionnaire that is not submitted within the time provided,
or in the form in which it was requested to be sent.
(4) The Director-General may, during the course of an
investigation, request for further information from parties
interested in the form of supplementary questionnaires, or
written requests for clarification or additional information.
Such requests shall state the date by which reply should be
forwarded, taking into consideration sufficient time that may
be required to send a meaningful reply.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Proposed
schedule for
investigation.
Gathering
information.

<!-- page 27 -->

22 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(5)  Any party interested may on its own initiative, submit
in writing, any information it considers relevant to the
investigation, which shall be considered by the Director-
General, unless such consideration would be unduly
burdensome or would disrupt the timely progress of the
investigation.
(6) The Director-General shall base his assessments of
dumping, injury and causal link on data relating to defined
periods, which shall —
(a) in the case of dumping, generally cover a period of
not less than six months and not more than twelve
months preceding the date of initiation of the
investigation for which data is available; and
(b) in the case of injury, generally cover a period of
thirty six months.
(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (6), the
Director-General may where appropriate, determine a shorter
or longer period as the case may be, in the light of available
information regarding the Sri Lankan industry, and the nature
of the investigated product.
30. Parties interested may, not later than a period of
fifteen days before the date scheduled for the making of the
preliminary determination, submit written arguments
concerning any matter relevant to the investigation.
31. (1) The Director-General shall make a preliminary
determination of dumping, injury and causal link, not earlier
than a period of two months and not later than a period of
five months after initiation  of the investigation, based on
all information available to the Director-General at that time.
(2) A public notice of the preliminary determination shall
be issued by the Director-General, which shall set forth in
sufficient detail the findings and conclusions reached on all
5
10
15
20
25
30
Preliminary
written
arguments.
Preliminary
determination.

<!-- page 28 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 23
issues of fact and law considered material, due regard being
given to the requirement for protection of confidential
information. The notice shall also contain —
(a) the names of the known exporters and producers of
the investigated product;
(b) a description of the investigated product that is
sufficient for customs purposes, including the
harmonized commodity description and coding
system classification;
(c) the amount of the dumping margin, if any, found to
exist and the basis for such determination,
including a description of the methodology used
in determining normal value and export price, and
any adjustments made in comparing the two;
(d) if the method of comparison provided for
insubsection (2) of section 11 of this Act was used,
the explanation required by that subsection;
(e) if the Director-General declined to determine an
individual dumping margin on the basis of
voluntary responses as provided for in subsection
(5) of section 13 of this Act, the basis for that
decision;
(f) the factors that have led to the determination of
injury and causal link, including information on
factors other than dumped imports that have been
taken into account; and
(g) the amount of any provisional measures to be
applied and the reasons why such provisional
measures are necessary to prevent injury being
caused during the period of the investigation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 29 -->

24 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(3)  The Director-General shall publish the public notice
in the Gazette, and in any newspaper widely circulated in Sri
Lanka in all three languages, and a copy of such notice shall
be forwarded to the country or countries exporting the
investigated product and to any other known parties
interested.
32. (1) Where the Director-General —
(a) accepts a price undertaking under section 44, the
Director-General shall publish a notice to that effect
in the Gazette  and in any newspaper widely
circulated in Sri Lanka in all three languages ; or
(b) refuses to accept a price undertaking under section
44, the Director-General shall provide the reasons
for such refusal and shall give the exporter an
opportunity to make any comments thereon.
(2) The public notice of the acceptance of an undertaking
shall include the non-confidential part of the undertaking
and set forth in sufficient detail the findings and conclusions
on all issues of fact and law considered material by the
Director-General, and such notice shall be forwarded to the
country or countries the products of which are subject to
such determination, and to any other known parties
interested.
(3) Where the Director-General continues the
investigation under section 46 of this Act, he shall publish a
notice of the continuation of the investigation, setting forth
the proposed date for the final determination, and any other
modifications to the proposed procedure adopted for the
conduct of the investigation. Any final determination in
such a continued investigation shall be made within a period
of six months of the date of publication of such notice.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Acceptance
of a price
undertaking.

<!-- page 30 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 25
33. (1) Except in the circumstances provided for in
section 26, the Director-General shall, during the course of
an investigation, satisfy himself as to the accuracy of the
information supplied by parties interested upon which his
findings are based
(2) For the purpose of verifying information provided
or to obtain further information, the Director-General may
carry out investigations in other countries where necessary,
with prior consent of the firms concerned, and after notifying
the representatives of the government of the country in
question.
(3) The procedures specified in the Second Schedule to
this Act shall apply with regard to the verifications carried
out in the territory of other countries, under subsection (2).
(4) The Director-General shall prepare a report on any
verification conducted under this section, and the report
shall be made available to the company to which it pertains,
and a non-confidential version shall be placed in the public
file kept under section 27.
(5) The Director-General shall make every effort to
complete any verification, prior to the date of any hearing in
the investigation.
34. (1) In an investigation in which:—
(a) no hearing is requested for, a party interested may
submit written arguments concerning any matter it
considers relevant to the investigation, not later
than a period of one and a half months before the
date proposed for the final determination;
(b) a hearing is held, not later than a period of ten days
before the scheduled date of the hearing, a party
interested may submit written submissions concerning
any matter it considers relevant to the investigation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Verification
of
information.
Written
arguments.

<!-- page 31 -->

26 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(2) Following the hearing, parties interested who
participated in the hearing may within a period of ten days,
submit further written submissions in response to arguments
and information presented at the hearing.
35. (1) The Director-General shall, upon request made
by a party interested not later than a period of  one month
after the publication of the preliminary determination, fix a
date not later  a period of than three weeks and not more than
a period of one month prior to the date of the proposed date
of the final determination, for the hearing at which all parties
interested may present information and arguments.
(2) There shall be no obligation on any party interested
to attend a hearing, and failure to do so shall not be
prejudicial to that interested party’s case. Hearings shall, as
far as possible, be organized by the Director-General so as to
take into account the convenience of all the parties interested.
(3) Parties interested intending to appear at the hearing shall
notify the Director-General of the names of representatives and
witnesses who may appear at the hearing, not less than a period
of seven days before the date of the hearing.
(4) Hearings shall be presided over by the Director-
General, who shall ensure that confidentiality is preserved,
and shall organize the hearing in such manner so as to ensure
that all parties participating have an adequate opportunity
to present their views. The Director-General shall maintain a
record of the hearing, which shall be placed in the public
file, with the exception of any confidential information.
36. (1) The  Director-General shall provide
opportunities  for  industrial  users  of  the investigated
product in Sri Lanka and for representatives of consumer
organizations, to provide information and submit written
arguments concerning matters  relevant to the investigation,
including the economic interest of Sri Lanka, in imposing
measures.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Hearings.
Contributions
by industrial
users and
representatives
of consumer
organizations.

<!-- page 32 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 27
(2) All information under this section shall be provided
in writing, and the Director-General shall allow industrial
users of the investigated product and representatives of
consumer organizations, to make oral representations at any
hearing held during the course of an investigation.
37. (1) At least a period of three weeks before the
proposed date for the final determination, the Director-
General shall, subject to the confidentiality requirement
under section 25, inform all parties interested in writing sent
by registered post or by any other means, of the essential
facts under consideration which shall form the basis for the
decision whether to apply definitive measures.
(2) Parties interested may submit comments in writing by
registered post, if any, on information disclosed to them under
subsection (1), within a period of  one week of such disclosure,
or in exceptional circumstances, within such extended period
of time as may be determined by the Director-General.
38. (1) The Director-General shall make a final
determination of dumping, injury, and causal link, generally
within a period of  six months of the date of the preliminary
determination, and such final determination shall be based
on all information obtained by the Director-General during
the course of the investigation that has been disclosed to
parties interested, subject to the confidentiality requirements
under section 25.
(2) Where the final determination demonstrates that there
is dumping and injury is being caused as a result of such
dumping, and taking into consideration among other
matters:—
(a) the situation of domestic competition for the
product under investigation; and
(b) the needs of industrial users and the interest of final
consumers, where applicable,
5
10
15
20
25
30
Essential
facts.
Final
determination.

<!-- page 33 -->

28 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
and where the economic interest of Sri Lanka calls for the
imposition of anti-dumping duties, a proposal for a
definitive anti-dumping duty, subject to the provisions
of subsection (4), shall be submitted by the Director-
General to the Inter-Ministerial Committee.
(3)  It shall be the duty of the Inter-Ministerial Committee to
consider the appropriateness of imposing a definitive anti--
dumping duty, and it shall submit its recommendation to the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance through the Minister,
within a period of ten working days of receipt of such proposal.
(4) The Director-General shall examine whether a duty
less than the full dumping margin would be adequate to
remove the injury to the Sri Lankan industry. Where the
Director-General determines that such a lesser duty would
be adequate to remove the injury, the amount of the final
anti- dumping duty imposed shall not exceed that lesser
duty.
(5) Where the final determination is that, there is no
evidence of dumping and consequently no injury is being
caused to the Sri Lankan Industry or there is no evidence of
injury being caused to the Sri Lankan Industry though there
is evidence of dumping, or the Sri Lankan economic interest
does not call for the imposition of any anti-dumping duties,
the Director-General shall immediately terminate the
investigation.
39. (1) Where the Inter-Ministerial Committee
recommends the imposition of a definitive anti-dumping
duty, the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in
consultation with the Minister shall, within a period of
fourteen working days of the date of receipt of the
recommendation of the Inter-Ministerial Committee and
taking into consideration the economic interest of Sri Lanka,
determine whether or not to adopt a definitive anti-dumping
duty, and the amount of duty to be imposed, if any, provided
that the duty imposed shall not exceed the dumping margin,
that was found to exist.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Imposition of
duty and
issue of
public notice.

<!-- page 34 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 29
(2)  The Director-General shall issue a public notice
of:—
(a) the final determination (whether affirmative or
negative); and
(b)  the amount of duty, if any, imposed by the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance,
which shall be published in the Gazette, and in any newspaper
widely circulated in Sri Lanka in all three languages.
(3) A report shall be prepared by the Director-General,
containing —
(a) the final determination, including all relevant
information on matters of fact and law, and the
reasons that have led to such determination, due
regard being given to the requirement for the
protection of confidential information; and
(b) the information referred to in subsection (4) of this
section,
and such report shall be made available for public inspection,
and copies thereof may be issued on the payment of such
fee, as may be determined by the Director-General.
(4) The information required under paragraph ( b) of
subsection (3) to be included in the report, shall consist of
the following:—
(a) the names of the known exporters and producers of
the investigated product;
(b) description of the investigated product that is
sufficient for customs purposes, including the
harmonized commodity description and coding
system classification;
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 35 -->

30 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(c) the amount of the dumping margin, if any found to
exist and the basis for such determination,
including a description of the methodology used
in determining normal value and export price, and
any adjustments made in comparing the two;
(d) if the method of comparison provided for in
subsection (2) of section 11 of this Act was used,
the explanation required by that subsection;
(e) if the Director-General declined to determine an
individual dumping margin on the basis of
voluntary responses as provided for in subsection
(4) of section 13 of this Act, the basis for that
decision;
(f) the factors that have led to the determination of
injury and casual link, including information on
factors other than dumped imports that have been
taken into account;
(g) the reasons for the acceptance or rejection of
relevant arguments or claims made by exporters
and importers;
(h) the amount of any anti-dumping duties, if any,
imposed by the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance; and
(i) if final anti-dumping duties are to be collected with
regard to the imports to which provisional measures
were applied, the reasons for the decision to do so.
(5) Where, within a period of seven days of making the
report available for public inspection under subsection (3),
any party interested brings to the notice of the Director-
General any clerical errors appearing in such report, the
Director-General may, where he considers it necessary, rectify
such error.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 36 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 31
(6)  A copy each of the notice published under subsection
(2) and of the report prepared under subsection (3), shall be
sent to the country or countries the product of which was
subject to the final determination, and to any other known
parties interested, as may be determined by the Director-
General.
40. The Director-General shall, on request made within
a period of  fifteen days of the publication of the notice
under subsection (2) of section 39 of this Act, hold separate
disclosure meetings with exporters or producers requesting
for such a meeting, to explain the dumping calculation
methodology finally applied for that exporter or producer.
P
ROVISIONAL MEASURES
41. (1) Where the Director-General makes an affirmative
preliminary determination of dumping, injury and the
existence of a causal link between the dumping and the
injury, and is of opinion that provisional measures are
necessary to prevent injury being continued during the
investigation, he shall communicate his opinion to the
Minister who shall submit such opinion to the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance.
(2) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance shall,
in consultation with the Minister, determine whether or not
to adopt provisional measures and the amount of provisional
duty to be imposed, if any, and the Director-General shall
cause notice of such duty imposed to be published in the
Gazette and in any newspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka
in all three languages.
(3) A negative preliminary determination of dumping shall
not automatically terminate the investigation, but no
provisional measures shall be imposed in such a case.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Disclosure.
Imposition of
provisional
measures.

<!-- page 37 -->

32 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
42. The provisional duty imposed by the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance under subsection (2) of
section 41, shall not be greater than the estimated dumping
margin set forth in the public notice of the preliminary
determination published under subsection (3) of section 31.
43. (1) Provisional measurers shall not be imposed until
the expiration of a period of not less than two months from
the date of initiation of the investigation, and shall generally
be applied for a period not exceeding six months.
(2) The Director-General may, upon a request made in
that behalf by exporters representing a significant percentage
of the trade involved, extend the period of application of
the provisional measures referred to in subsection (1), to a
period not exceeding nine months.
(3) The provisions of sections 48 and 49 of this Act, shall
be followed mutatis mutandis  in the application of
provisional measures imposed under section 41.
P
RICE  UNDERTAKINGS
44. (1) The Director-General may suspend an
investigation without the imposition of provisional measures
or anti-dumping duties, on receipt of satisfactory voluntary
undertakings from any exporter, to revise its prices or to
cease exports to the area in question at dumped prices, and
the Director-General is satisfied that the injurious effect of
the dumping is eliminated.
(2) Any price increases imposed as a result of an
undertaking given under subsection (1), shall not be higher
than what is necessary to eliminate the dumping margin and
where the Director-General determines in the interest of the
national economy, that a lesser price increase would be
adequate to remove the injury to the Sri Lankan industry,
the price increase imposed may be less than the dumping
margin.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Amount of
provisional
duty to be
imposed.
Duration of
application
of
provisional
measures.
Undertakings
relating to
price
undertakings.

<!-- page 38 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 33
(3) Price undertaking for the purpose of subsection (1)
may be suggested by the Director-General, but no exporter
shall be forced to enter into such an undertaking.
(4) The fact that exporters do not offer any price
undertakings, or do not accept an invitation to do so, shall
in no way prejudice the consideration of the case, but the
Director-General shall be free to determine that a threat of
injury is more likely to be realized, if the dumped imports
continue.
(5) Except in exceptional circumstances, a price
undertaking under subsection (1) may be offered by any
exporter at any time not less than a period of  two months
before the proposed date of the final determination.
45. (1) The Director-General shall not seek to suggest
or accept any price undertakings from exporters, until a
preliminary affirmative determination is made of dumping,
injury, and causal link.
(2) Undertakings offered may not be accepted by the
Director-General, if he considers their acceptance impractical
such as, if the number of actual or potential exporters is too
great, or for any other reasons, including reasons of general
policy.
(3) Where the Director-General decides not to accept an
undertaking,  he  shall provide to the exporter the reasons
which have led to consider the acceptance of an undertaking
as inappropriate, and grant to such exporter an opportunity
to make written comments thereon.
(4) The Director-General may require any exporter from
whom an undertaking have been accepted, to provide
periodically, information relevant to the fulfillment of such
undertakings, and to permit verification of the information
so provided. The communication of these data shall be
subject to the provisions of section relating to
5
10
15
20
25
30
Conditions
for
acceptance of
price
undertakings.

<!-- page 39 -->

34 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
confidentiality. Failure to provide information requested
by the Director-General may be deemed to be a violation of
the undertaking.
(5) Price undertakings offered shall be enforced in such
manner and following such procedure as shall be prescribed.
46. (1) Notwithstanding the acceptance of one or more
undertakings, the Director-General shall, where an exporter
so desires or the Director-General so decides, complete the
investigation of dumping and injury.
(2) In a case where the Director-General completes the
investigation under subsection (1) and —
(a) the Director-General makes a negative
determination of dumping or injury, the
undertakings shall automatically lapse, except in
cases where such a determination is due in large
part to the existence of such undertakings, and the
Director-General may require that an undertaking
be maintained for a reasonable period of time as
shall be determined by him;
(b) the Director-General makes an affirmative
determination of dumping and injury, the
undertaking shall stand modified to the extent of
the determination.
47. Where an undertaking given under section 44 is
violated, the Director-General may, in compliance with the
provisions of this Act, take all necessary steps as may be
necessary for the imposition of provisional measures, using
the best information available. In such cases, definitive duties
may be levied in accordance with this Act on goods imported
for consumption not more than three months before the
application of such provisional measures, except that any
such assessment shall not apply to imports entered before
the violation of the undertaking.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Completion
of the
investigation.
Violation of
undertakings.

<!-- page 40 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 35
IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF ANTI-DUMPING  DUTIES
48. (1) Anti-dumping duties shall take the form of
ad valorem   or  specific duties, and shall be imposed in
addition to other import duties levied on the imported
products concerned.
(2) Anti-Dumping duties shall be collected by the
Director-General of Customs and the provisions of the
Customs Ordinance relating to collection of duties, shall
mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation to the same.
(3) Except in the circumstances provided for in subsection
(4), the Director-General shall establish an individual anti-
dumping duty for each known exporter or producer of
dumped imports concerned.
(4) When the Director-General has limited the
examination in accordance with the provisions of subsections
(2) and (3) of section 13 of this Act, any anti-dumping duty
applied to imports from exporters or producers not included
in the examination, shall not exceed the weighted average
dumping margin established with respect to the selected
exporters or producers, provided that the Director-General
shall disregard for the purpose of this subsection, any zero
or de minimis  margins and margins established under the
circumstances referred to in section 26.
(5) Except as otherwise provided for in subsections (4)
and (5) of section 13 of this Act, the Director-General shall
apply individual duties to imports from any exporter or
producer not included in the examination who has provided
the necessary information during the course of the
investigation.
(6) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance may
apply an anti-dumping duty rate for imports from exporters
and producers not known to the Director-General at the time
the final determination was made. Such anti-dumping duty
rate shall not exceed the weighted average of the individual
5
10
15
20
25
30
Imposition
and
collection of
anti-dumping
duties.

<!-- page 41 -->

36 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
dumping margins established for exporters and producers
examined during the investigation, excluding margins
established under the circumstance referred to in section 26
of this Act.
49. (1) An importer shall be granted a refund of the
duties collected by the Director-General of Customs, where
the Director-General determines that the dumping margin,
on the basis of which duties were paid, has been eliminated
or reduced to a level which is below the level of the duty in
force.
(2) The importer shall submit an application to the
Director-General for the refund of anti-dumping duties
collected within any  period of six months period, within a
period of two months of the end of that period. The
application shall contain information on the amount of refund
of anti-dumping duties claimed for the period, and all customs
documentation relating to the calculation and payment of
such amount. It shall also include evidence of normal value
and export prices to Sri Lanka, for the exporter or the producer
to which the duty applies.
(3) In any case where the importer is not associated with
the producer or exporter and the information referred to in
subsection (2) is not immediately available, or where the
producer or the exporter is unwilling to release it to the
importer, the application shall contain a statement from the
producer or exporter that the dumping margin has been
reduced or eliminated, and that the relevant supporting
evidence shall be directly provided to the Director-General.
Where such evidence is not forthcoming from the exporter
or producer within a reasonable period of time, the
application shall be rejected.
(4) In investigating an application for a refund, the
Director-General shall apply the relevant provisions of this
Act relating to the conduct of an investigation, to his
determination. In particular when determining whether and
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Refund of
duties paid in
excess of the
dumping
margin.

<!-- page 42 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 37
to what extent a refund should be made when the export
price is contracted on the basis of the price at which the
imported products are first resold to an independent buyer
due to the absence of export price, or because it appears that
the export price is unreliable in terms of subsection (2) of
section 9, the Director-General shall take account of any
change in normal value, any change of costs incurred
between importation and resale, and any movement in the
resale price which is duly reflected in subsequent selling
prices, and shall calculate the export price with no deduction
for the amount of anti-dumping duties paid, when satisfactory
evidence of the above is provided.
(5) The Director-General shall provide the importer
making the request, with a detailed explanation of the reasons
for the determination concerning the request for refund.
(6) Refunds of duties shall generally take place within a
period of twelve months and in no case more than a period
of eighteen months after the date on which an application
for a refund was made. Any refund authorized, shall be made
by the Director-General of Customs within a period of three
months of the determination to grant a refund. The
observance of the time-limits mentioned in this subsection
may not be possible where the determination to apply the
duties in question is subject to a judicial review proceeding.
(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the
time limits referred to herein, may not be strictly adhered to
where as a result of the subject matter being judicially
reviewed, such adherence is not possible.
50. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance may, in
consultation with the Director-General and upon the
recommendations of the Inter-Ministerial Committee,
suspend the application of provisional measures or anti-
dumping duties imposed under this Act for a specified
period.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Suspension.

<!-- page 43 -->

38 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(2)  The decision to suspend the application of provisional
measures or anti-dumping duties shall be arrived at, having
taken into consideration the interest of the national economy,
and –
(a) subsequent to an examination of such factors,
including market conditions, as the Minister may
prescribe in consultation with the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance; and
(b) having given an opportunity to the Sri Lankan
industry to comment on the issue.
R
ETROACTIVITY
51. Except as provided for in sections 47, 52 and 53 of
this Act, provisional measures and anti-dumping duties shall
only be applied to products which enter into Sri Lanka for
consumption, on or after the date of the publication of an
affirmative preliminary or final determination in an
investigation conducted under the preceding provisions of
this Act, or a review carried under sections 57 to 59 of this
Act.
52. A definitive anti-dumping duty may be collected on
products which were entered for consumption not more than a
period of three months prior to the date of application of
provisional measures, where the Director-General determines,
in regard to the dumped product in question, that —
(a) there is a history of dumping which caused injury
or that the importer was, or should have been, aware
that the exporter practices dumping and that such
dumping would cause injury; and
(b) the injury is caused by massive dumped imports of
a product in a relatively short time, which in the
light of the timing and the volume of the dumped
5
10
15
20
25
Principle of
retroactivity.
Retroactive
application
of definitive
duties in
certain
circumstances.
30

<!-- page 44 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 39
imports and other circumstances (such as a rapid
build-up of inventories of the imported product) is
likely to seriously undermine the remedial effect of
the definitive anti-dumping duty to be applied,
provided that the importers concerned have been
given an opportunity to comment.
53. (1) Where the Director-General makes a final
determination of injury (but not of a threat thereof or of
material retardation of the establishment of an industry) or,
in the case of a final determination of a threat of injury,
where the Director-General considers that the effect of the
dumped imports would, in the absence of the provisional
measures, have led to a determination of injury, definitive
anti-dumping duties may be levied retroactively for the
period for which provisional measures, if any, have been
applied.
(2) Where the definitive anti-dumping duty is higher than
the amount estimated for the purpose of the provisional
measure, the difference shall not be collected, but where the
definitive duty is lower than the amount estimated for the
purpose of the security, the difference shall be reimbursed.
(3) Except as provided for in subsection (1), where the
Director-General makes a determination of threat of injury
or material retardation (but no injury has yet occurred) a
definitive anti-dumping duty may be imposed only from
the date of the determination of threat of injury or material
retardation. Any provisional duty paid shall be reimbursed
within a period of one and a half months.
(4) Where the Director-General makes a negative final
determination, any provisional duty paid during the period
of application shall be reimbursed within a period of one
and a half months.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Definitive
collection of
provisional
duties.

<!-- page 45 -->

40 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
TERMINATION WITHOUT ADOPTION OF MEASURES
54. (1) An investigation shall be terminated at any time,
where the Director-General is satisfied that there is not
sufficient evidence of either dumping or injury, to justify
proceeding with the investigation.
(2) The Director-General shall terminate an investigation,
if he determines that the dumping margin is  de minimis, or
that the volume of dumped imports, whether actual or
potential, or the injury, is negligible.
(3)  For the purpose of subsection (2) —
(a) the dumping margin shall be considered to be
de minimis if the margin is less than two per
centum, expressed as a percentage of the export
price; and
(b) the volume of dumped imports shall generally
be regarded as negligible, if the volume of
dumped imports of the investigated product
from a particular country is found to account
for less than three per centum of total imports
of the investigated and like product in Sri
Lanka, unless imports of the investigated
product from all countries under investigation
which individually account for less than three
per centum  of the total imports of the
investigated and like product in Sri Lanka,
collectively account for more than seven per
centum of imports of the investigated and like
product in Sri Lanka.
55. The Director-General shall, with due regard being
paid to the requirement for the protection of confidential
information, issue a public notice of the conclusion of an
investigation without imposition of measures, which shall
set forth in sufficient detail the findings and conclusions
5
10
15
20
25
30
Termination
for
insufficient
evidence,
de minimis
dumping
margin or
negligible
volume.
Public notice
of conclusion
of an
investigation
without
imposition of
measures.

<!-- page 46 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 41
reached on all issues of fact and law considered material by
the Director-General, including the matters of fact and law
which have led to arguments being accepted or rejected, as
the case may be.
D
URATION AND REVIEW OF ANTI-DUMPING DUTIES AND PRICE
UNDERTAKINGS
56. (1) An anti-dumping duty shall remain in force as
long as, and to the extent necessary, to counteract dumping
which is causing injury.
(2) Any definitive anti-dumping duty shall stand
terminated on a date not later than a period of five years
from its imposition or from the date of the most recent review
under section 57, if that review has covered both dumping
and injury.
(3)  The Director-General shall, not later than a period of
three months preceding the date of expiry of the definitive
anti-dumping  duty, publish a notice in the Gazette and in any
newspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka in all three languages,
of the impending expiry of any anti-dumping duty. A definitive
duty, however, may not expire, if the Director-General
determines, in a review initiated before the date of expiry on its
own initiative, or upon a duly substantiated request made by or
on behalf of the Sri Lankan industry within a period of  one and
a half months from the public notice of impending termination
of the definitive anti-dumping duties concerned, that the expiry
of the duty would be likely to lead to a continuation or recurrence
of dumping and injury. The duty may remain in force pending
the outcome of such a review.
57. (1) The Director-General shall, where it is warranted,
review the need for the continued imposition of the anti-
dumping duty on his own initiative or, where a reasonable
period of time has elapsed since the imposition of the
definitive anti-dumping duty, upon a written request
submitted by any party interested, which contains positive
information substantiating the need for a review.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Duration of
an anti-
dumping
duty.
Review for
change of
circumstances.
35

<!-- page 47 -->

42 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(2) The Director-General shall, upon initiation of a review
under subsection (1), publish a notice in the Gazette and in
any newspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka in all three
languages, of the initiation of such a review.
(3) In conducting a review under this section, the
Director-General shall, upon request made by a party
interested, examine whether —
(a) the continued imposition of the duty is necessary
to offset dumping;
(b) the injury would be likely to continue or recur, if
the duty were removed or varied; or
(c) both events are happening.
(4) Where, as a result of a review under this section, the
Director-General determines that the anti-dumping duty is
no longer warranted, the Director-General shall recommend
to the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance that such
duty be terminated immediately.
58. (1) Where a product is subject to definitive anti-
dumping duties, the Director-General shall promptly carry
out a review for the purpose of determining individual
dumping margins for any exporters or producers in the
exporting country concerned who did not export the product
to Sri Lanka during the period of investigation, provided,
such exporters or producers may show that they are not related
to any of the exporters or producers in the exporting country
who are subject to the anti-dumping duties on the imported
investigated product. Such a review shall be initiated within
a period of one month following the date of receipt of the
application by the producer or exporter concerned.
(2) A review under subsection (1) shall generally be completed
within a period of  six months from its initiation and, in any
event, a period  not later than twelve months of its initiation.
New comer
review.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 48 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 43
(3) No anti-dumping duty shall be levied on imports from
such exporters or producers at whose instigation a review is
being carried out under subsection (1), while the review is
being carried on. The Director-General may, however, request
guarantees in the amount of the residual anti-dumping duty
rate, as determined under subsection (6) of section 48 of this
Act, in order to ensure that, should such a review result in a
determination of dumping in respect of such producers or
exporters, anti-dumping duties can be levied retroactively
to the date of the initiation of the review.
59.  The provisions of —
(a) sections 56 and 57 of this Act shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to price undertakings accepted under the
provisions of sections 44 to 47 of this Act;
(b) sections 21, 25, 26, 27, 29, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37,
38, 39 and 40 of this Act shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to any review carried out under this Part
of this Act; and
(c) section 22 of this Act shall apply to any review
conducted under sections 56 and 57 of this Act
which shall be carried out expeditiously and be
concluded within a period of  twelve months of the
date of initiation of the review.
A
NTI-CIRCUMVENTION
60. (1) Where an article subject to anti-dumping duty
is imported into Sri Lanka from any country including the
country of origin or country of export notified for the purposes
of levy of anti-dumping duty, in an unassembled, unfinished
or incomplete form and is assembled, finished or completed
5
10
15
20
25
Duration and
review of
undertakings.
Circumvention
of anti-
dumping
duty.

<!-- page 49 -->

44 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
in Sri Lanka or in such country, such assembly, finishing or
completion shall be considered to circumvent the anti-
dumping duty in force if, -
(a) the operation started or increased after, or just prior
to,  the anti-dumping investigations and the parts
and components are imported from the country of
origin or country of export notified for purposes of
levy of anti-dumping duty; and
(b) the value consequent to assembly, finishing or
completion operation is less than thirty-five per
centum  of the cost of assembled, finished or
completed  article.
(2) Where an article subject to anti-dumping duty is
imported into Sri Lanka from country of origin or country of
export notified for the levy of anti-dumping duty after being
subjected to any process involving alteration of the
description, name or composition of an article, such alteration
shall be considered to circumvent the anti-dumping duty in
force, if the alteration of the description, name or composition
of the article subject to anti-dumping duty results in the
article being altered in form or appearance even in minor
forms regardless of the variation of tariff classification, if
any.
(3) Where an article subject to anti-dumping duty is
imported into Sri Lanka through exporters or producers or
country not subject to anti-dumping duty, such exports shall
be considered to circumvent the anti-dumping duty in force,
if the exporters or producers notified for the levy of anti-
dumping duty change their trade practice, pattern of trade or
channels of sales of the article in order to have their products
exported to Sri Lanka through exporters or producers or
country not subject to anti-dumping duty.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 50 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 45
61. (1) Except as provided herein below, the Director-
General may initiate an investigation to determine the
existence and effect of any alleged circumvention of the
anti-dumping duty levied under section 2(1) of the Act, upon
receipt of a written application by or on behalf of the Sri
Lankan industry.
(2) The application shall, inter-alia, contain sufficient
evidence as regards the existence of the circumstances to
justify initiation of an anti-circumvention investigation.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection
(1), the Director-General may initiate an investigation on
his own initiative, if he is satisfied from information received
from any party interested that sufficient evidence exists as
to the existence of the circumstances pointing to
circumvention of anti-dumping duty in force.
(4) The Director-General may initiate an investigation to
determine the existence and effect of any alleged
circumvention of the anti-dumping duty in force, where he
is satisfied that imports of the article circumventing an anti-
dumping duty in force are found to be dumped:
Provided that, the Director-General shall notify the
government of the exporting country before proceeding to
initiate such an investigation.
(5) The provisions regarding the conduct of anti-dumping
investigations under this Act shall apply mutatis mutandis
to any investigation carried out under this section.
(6) Any such investigation shall be concluded within a
period of twelve months and in no case more than a period
of eighteen months of the date of initiation of investigation
for reasons to be recorded in writing by the Director-General.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Initiation of
investigation
to determine
circumvention.

<!-- page 51 -->

46 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
62. (1) The Director-General, upon determination that
circumvention of anti-dumping duty exists, may recommend
to the Inter-Ministerial Committee the imposition of anti-
dumping duty to imports of articles found to be
circumventing an existing anti-dumping duty or to imports
of articles originating in or exported from countries other
than those which are already notified for the purpose of levy
of the anti-dumping duty and such levy may apply
retrospectively from the date of initiation of the investigation
under section 61.
(2)  It shall be the duty of the Inter-Ministerial Committee
to consider the appropriateness of the recommendation of
the Director-General under subsection (1), and it shall submit
its recommendation to the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance through the Minister, within a period of ten
working days of receipt of such recommendation.
63. (1) The Director-General may review the need for
the continued imposition of the duty, where warranted, on
his own initiative or a reasonable period of time has elapsed
since the imposition of the measures, upon request made by
any party interested which submits positive information
substantiating the need for the review.
 (2) Any review initiated under subsection (1) shall be
concluded within a period not exceeding twelve months
from the date of initiation of review.
PART II
COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
64. (1) Countervailing duties may be imposed on
products imported into Sri Lanka, where the Director-General
determines, pursuant to an investigation initiated and
conducted in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
that —
(a) a prohibited subsidy or an actionable subsidy within
the meaning of this Act is being provided with
respect to the investigated product;
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Review of
circumvention.
Circumstance
in which a
countervailing
duty may be
imposed.
Determination
of
Circumvention.

<!-- page 52 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 47
(b) there is injury being caused to the Sri Lankan
industry; and
(c) there exists a causal link between the subsidized
imports and the injury caused.
(2) Where imports of like products from more than one
country are the subject of simultaneous countervailing duty
investigations, the Director-General may, for the purpose of
determining whether injury exists, cumulatively assess the
effects of such subsidized imports on the Sri Lankan industry,
only if —
(a) the applications are filed under section 14 of this
Act;
(b) the Director-General determines that the amount of
countervailable subsidization established in
relation to the imports from each country is more
than de minimis as specified in section 74 and the
volume of imports from each country is not
negligible as specified in section 74; and
(c) the Director-General determines that a cumulative
assessment of the effects of the imports is
appropriate in the light of the conditions of
competition between the imported products, and
the conditions of competition between the imported
products and the domestic like products.
65. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 64 of this
Act, a subsidy may be subject to a countervailing duty, if it
is —
(a) a prohibited subsidy; or
(b) an actionable subsidy.
5
10
15
20
25
When may a
subsidy be
subject to a
countervailing
duty.

<!-- page 53 -->

48 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(2) A subsidy shall not be subject to a countervailing
duty and be considered a non-actionable subsidy within the
meaning of this Act, where the Director-General determines
that, such subsidy is —
(a) not specific within the meaning of section 66 of
this Act; or
(b) a subsidy referred to in the Third Schedule to this
Act.
(3) A prohibited subsidy shall be deemed to be specific
in terms of section 66 of this Act.
66. (1) In order to determine whether for the purpose of
subsection (1) of section 65 of this Act, a subsidy is specific
to an enterprise or industry or group of enterprises or
industries (referred to in this section as “certain enterprises”)
within the  jurisdiction of authority granting it, the following
principles shall apply:—
(a) where the granting authority or the legislation
pursuant to which the granting authority
operates,explicitly limits access to a subsidy to
certain enterprises, such subsidy shall be specific;
(b) where the granting authority or the legislation
pursuant to which the granting authority operates,
establishes  objective  criteria  or conditions
governing the eligibility for and the amount of a
subsidy, specificity shall not exist, provided that
the eligibility is automatic and that such criteria
and conditions are strictly adhered to and are clearly
spelt out in that legislation or other official
document, so as to be capable of verification;
and
(c) if, notwithstanding any appearance of non-
specificity resulting from the application of the
5
10
15
20
25
30
Specificity
and
contingency
of subsidy.

<!-- page 54 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 49
principles laid down in sub-paragraphs ( a) and (b)
of this subsection, there are reasons to believe that
the subsidy may in fact be specific, the following
factors may be considered:—
(i) use of a subsidy programme by a limited
number of certain enterprises, predominant
use by certain enterprises, the granting of
disproportionately large amounts of subsidy
to certain enterprises, and the manner in which
discretion has been exercised by the granting
authority in the decision to grant a subsidy;
and
(ii) account shall be taken of the extent of
diversification of economic activities within
the jurisdiction of the granting authority, as
well as of the length of time during which the
subsidy programme has been in operation.
(2) For the purposes of paragraph ( b) of subsection (1),
objective criteria or conditions means, criteria or conditions
which are neutral, which do not favour certain enterprises
over others, and which are economic in nature and horizontal
in application, such as the number of employees or the size
of the enterprise.
(3) The setting or change of generally applicable tax rates,
shall not be deemed to be a specific subsidy.
(4) A subsidy which is limited to certain enterprises
located within a designated geographical region within the
jurisdiction of the authority granting the subsidy shall be
deemed to be a specific subsidy.
(5) Any determination of specificity under this section
shall be established on the basis of positive evidence.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 55 -->

50 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
67. (1) In determining what amounts to the “conferring
of a benefit” for the purpose of a “subsidy” as defined in
section 85 of this Act, the Director-General shall have regard
to the following guidelines:—
(a) government provision of equity capital shall not
be considered as conferring a benefit, unless the
investment decision can be regarded as inconsistent
with the usual investment practice, including the
provision of risk capital, of private investors in the
territory of that country;
(b) a loan by a government shall not be considered as
conferring a benefit, unless there is a difference
between the amount that the firm receiving the loan
pays on the government loan, and the amount the
firm would pay on a comparable commercial loan
which the firm could actually obtain on the market,
in which case the benefit shall be the difference
between these two amounts;
(c) a loan guaranteed by a government shall not be
considered as conferring a benefit, unless there is a
difference between the amount that the firm
receiving the guarantee pays on a loan guaranteed
by the government, and the amount that the firm
would pay on a comparable commercial loan
without that government guarantee, in which case
the benefit shall be the difference between these
two amounts adjusted for any differences in fees;
and
(d) the provision of goods or services or purchase of
goods by a government shall not be considered as
conferring a benefit, unless the provision is made
for less than adequate remuneration, or the purchase
is made for more than adequate remuneration.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Determination
of benefit by
the grant of a
subsidy.

<!-- page 56 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 51
(2) For the purposes of paragraph ( d) of subsection (1),
the adequacy of remuneration shall be determined in relation
to prevailing market conditions for the goods or services in
question in the country of provision or purchase, including
price, quality, availability, marketability, transportation and
other conditions of purchase or sale.
68. (1) The Director-General shall subject to the
provisions of subsection (4), submit through the Minister, a
proposal to the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
relating to the application of an individual countervailing
duty rate for each known exporter or producer concerned, of
the investigated product that has been individually
investigated.
(2)  Where the number of exporters, producers, importers
or types of the investigated product is so large as to make it
impracticable to individually examine each party interested
or all the investigated products for the purpose of subsection
(1), the Director-General may limit the examination either
to a reasonable number of parties interested or investigated
products, by using samples which are statistically valid on
the basis of information available to the Director-General at
the time of the selection, or to the largest percentage of the
volume of the exports from the country in question which
can reasonably be investigated.
(3)  Any selection of exporters, producers, importers or
types of investigated products made under subsection (2),
shall preferably be chosen in consultation with and the
consent of the exporters, producers or importers concerned.
(4) Where a limited examination is carried out under
subsections  (2) and (3), the Director-General shall apply to
any exporter or producer not included in the investigation,
a rate that is equal to the weighted average of the individual
countervailing duty rates established for all exporters and
producers individually examined, provided that, the
Director-General shall disregard for the purpose of this
subsection, any zero or countervailable subsidy considered
to be de minimis.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Establishing
the
countervailing
duty rate.

<!-- page 57 -->

52 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
INITIATION, CONDUCT AND  CONCLUSION OF
INVESTIGATION AND REVIEW
69. In regard to the initiation of a countervailing duty
investigation under this Part of this Act, the provisions of
sections 14 to 22 (inclusive of both sections) of this Act,
shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to the same,
subject to the following modifications:—
(a) before initiating a countervailing duty investigation
and throughout the conduct of the investigation,
the Director-General shall provide any interested
foreign government, an opportunity for
consultation for the purpose of clarifying any
matters that shall be relevant to the investigation
and arriving at a mutually agreed solution;
(b) a consultation under paragraph ( a) shall not in any
way impede the Director-General from proceeding
with the conduct of the investigation, or reaching a
provisional or final determination, in relation to
the same; and
(c) the requirement of notifying the government of
each exporting country of a decision to initiate an
investigation, where the application fulfills the
relevant requirement as provided for in subsection
(2) of section 16, shall not be applicable to an
investigation initiated under this Part of this Act.
70. (1) In regard to the conduct and conclusion of an
investigation under this part of this Act, including the
imposition of provisional measures, the provisions of sections
23 to 43 (inclusive of both sections) of this Act, shall mutatis
mutandis  apply to and in relation to the same, subject to the
following modifications:—
(a) the requirement under section 29 of this Act of
sending questionnaires upon the initiation of an
5
10
15
20
25
30
Initiation of
investigation
under this
Part of the
Act.
Conduct and
conclusion of
an
investigation
under this
Part of this
Act.

<!-- page 58 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 53
investigation, shall in the case of an investigation
under this Part of this Act, also include the sending
of such questionnaire to interested members or
parties interested;
(b) the provisional measures imposed under section
41 of this Act, shall, in the case of an investigation
under this Part of this Act, take the form of cash
deposits or bonds equal to the amount of the
provisionally calculated amount of subsidization;
(c) the duration of the application of any provisional
measures imposed as referred to in subsection (1) of
section 43 of this Act, shall, in the case of provisional
measures imposed in an investigation under this Part
of this Act, not exceed a period of four months; and
(d) the provisions of subsection (2) of section 43
relating to the granting of an extension of the period
of the application of provisional measures imposed,
shall not apply to an investigation under this Part
of this Act.
71. (1) The Director-General may suspend an
investigation under this Part of this Act, without the
imposition of provisional measures, on receipt of satisfactory
voluntary undertakings from the government granting the
subsidy or the exporter concerned, that —
(a) the government granting the subsidy agrees to
eliminate or limit the subsidy or take other measures
concerning its effects; or
(b) the exporter concerned agrees to revise its prices so
that the injurious effects caused by the granting of
that subsidy is eliminated.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Price
undertakings.

<!-- page 59 -->

54 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(2) Any price increases imposed as a result of an
undertaking given under paragraph ( b) of subsection (1),
shall not be higher than necessary to eliminate the amount
of the subsidy and preferably be less than the amount of the
subsidy, if such price increase imposed is adequate to remove
the injury caused to the Sri Lankan industry.
(3) Price undertakings for the purpose of subsection (1)
may be suggested by the Director-General, but, the exporter
concerned shall not be forced to enter into such
undertakings.
(4) The fact that exporter concerned does not offer any
price undertakings or does not accept an invitation to do so,
shall in no way prejudice the consideration of the case, but
the Director-General shall be free to determine that a threat
of injury to the Sri Lankan industry is more likely to be
realized, if the subsidized imports continue.
72. In regard to the conditions of acceptance of
voluntary undertakings from an exporter under section 71
of this Act, and the consequences of such an acceptance, the
provisions of sections 45 to 47 (inclusive both sections) of
this Act, shall, mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation to
the same.
73. (1) In regard to the imposition and collection of
countervailing duties, retroactivity, termination of
investigations, duration and review of countervailing duties
and voluntary undertakings, in an investigation under this
Part of this Act, the provisions of sections 48 to 57 (inclusive
of both sections) and section 59 of this Act, other than the
provisions of section 54, shall mutatis mutandis  apply to
and in relation to the same.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),
where a countervailing duty has been imposed on products
exported by an exporter who was not included in an
investigation carried under this Part of this Act, (for another
5
10
15
20
25
30
Consequences
of voluntary
undertakings
under section
71.
Imposition
and
collection of
countervailing
duties etc.
under this
Part of this
Act.

<!-- page 60 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 55
reason other than the refusal to co-operate), the Director-
General shall immediately initiate and promptly review an
investigation under this Part of this Act and the provisions
of section 58 of this Act shall mutatis mutandis apply to and
in relation to the same.
74. An investigation under this part of this Act shall be
terminated at any time, where the Director-General
determines  that:—
(a) the amount of countervailable subsidy is de minimis
or that the volume of subsidized import, actual or
potential, or its injury being caused to the Sri Lankan
industry, is negligible; or
(b) there is not sufficient evidence to justify continuing
with the investigation.
75. (1) Where the Director-General on his own motion
or on information provided by any party interested, has
reason to believe that a prohibited or actionable subsidy is
being granted or maintained by a Member in respect of a
product being exported to Sri Lanka, the Director-General
shall bring such information to the notice of the Minister.
(2) The Minister may, without prejudice to any other
action that may be taken in terms of this Act, request such
Member who is alleged to be granting the prohibited or
actionable subsidy, for a consultation with a view to
clarifying the situation relating to the same and arriving at a
mutually acceptable solution, provided, however, that a
hearing shall be afforded to the  Sri Lankan Industry prior to
finalizing any such solution.
(3) Any investigation commenced under Part II of this
Act may be terminated upon a solution being arrived at under
subsection (2). Provided, however, that no such
investigations shall be suspended or terminated merely by
the request for or commencement of any consultation under
subsection (2).
5
10
15
20
25
30
Termination
for
insufficient
evidence of
an
investigation
under this
Part of this
Act.
Consultations.

<!-- page 61 -->

56 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(4) A request made for a consultation under subsection
(1) shall be accompanied by a statement containing all the
available evidence with regard to the existence of such
prohibited or actionable subsidy and the nature of such
subsidy.
PART III
G
ENERAL
76. (1) A determination of injury for the purposes of
paragraph (b) of section 2 and paragraph (b) of subsection (1)
of section 64 of this Act, shall be based on positive evidence
and would involve an objective examination of —
(a) the volume of the dumped or subsidized imports
and the effect of the dumped or subsidized imports
on prices in the domestic market for like products;
and
(b) the consequent impact of these imports on domestic
producers of such like products.
(2) In examining the impact of the subsidized or dumped
imports on the Sri Lankan industry, the Director-General
shall base his examination on an evaluation of all relevant
economic factors and indices having a bearing on the state
of such industry, including:—
(a) the actual and potential decline in output, sales,
market share, profits, productivity, returns on
investments or utilization of capacity;
(b) the factors affecting domestic prices;
(c) the magnitude of the dumping margin in the case
of an anti-dumping investigation;
Determination
of injury.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 62 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 57
(d) the actual and potential negative effects on cash
flow, inventories, employment, wages, growth or
ability to raise capital or investment; and
(e) in the case of a countervailing duty investigation
involving agriculture, whether there has been an
increased  burden  on  government  support
programmes.
(3) The factors and indices listed in subsection (2) shall
not be considered as exhaustive, nor shall any such factor or
index be necessarily conclusive.
77. (1) In order to determine for the purpose of paragraph
(c) of section 2 or paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section
64 of this Act, whether there exists a causal link between the
injury caused to the Sri Lankan industry by the investigated
product and the dumping or the granting of a countervailable
subsidy, as the case may be, the Director-General shall
consider among other factors, whether:—
(a) there has been a significant increase in dumped or
subsidized imports in absolute terms or relative, to
production or consumption in Sri Lanka;
(b) there has been significant price undercutting by
dumped or subsidized imports, as compared with
the price of the domestic like product; and
(c) the effect of the dumped or subsidized imports is
such as to depress prices to a significant degree, or
to prevent price increases which would otherwise
have occurred to a significant degree.
(2) The Director-General shall assess the effect of the
dumped or subsidized imports in relation to the domestic
production of the like product, where available data permits
the separate identification of the production in accordance
with such criteria, as the production process, producers’ sales
and profits.
Causation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 63 -->

58 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(3) If the separate identification of the production is not
possible, the Director-General shall assess the effects of the
dumped or subsidized imports by examining the production
of the narrowest group or range of products, which includes
the domestic like product, for which necessary information
can be provided.
(4) In relation to an anti-dumping investigation, the
demonstration of a causal link between the dumped imports
and the injury to the Sri Lankan Industry shall be based on
an examination of all relevant evidence before the Director-
General.
(5) The Director-General shall also examine any other
known factors, other than the dumped or subsided imports
which, at the same time, are injuring the Sri Lankan industry.
(6)  Factors that may be considered by the Director-General
under subsection (5) may include, inter alia:—
(a) the volume and prices of non-subsidized imports
of the goods in question or of imports not sold at
dumping prices;
(b) contraction in demand or changes in the patterns of
consumption;
(c) trade restrictive practices of, and competition
between, the foreign and Sri Lankan producers;
(d) developments in technology; and
(e) the export performance and productivity of the Sri
Lankan industry.
(7) Injury to the Sri Lankan industry caused by factors
other than the dumped or subsidized imports shall not be
attributed to the dumped or subsidized imports.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 64 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 59
78. (1) For the purpose of this Act, a determination of
threat of material injury to the Sri Lankan industry shall be
based on facts, and not merely on allegation, conjecture or
remote possibility, and the change in circumstances which
would create a situation in which the dumped or subsidized
products would cause injury, shall be clearly foreseen and
imminent.
(2) In determining whether a threat of material injury
exists, the Director-General shall consider with special care
amongst others, factors such as:-
(a) a significant rate of increase of dumped or
subsidized imports into the Sri Lankan market,
indicating the likelihood of substantially increased
importation;
(b) sufficient freely disposable, or an imminent
substantial increase in, capacity of the exporter
indicating the likelihood of substantially increased
dumped or subsidized exports to the Sri Lankan
market, taking into account the availability of other
export markets to absorb any additional exports;
(c) whether the imported products are entering at prices
that will have a significant depressing or
suppressing effect on Sri Lankan prices, and would
likely increase demand for further imports;
(d) inventories of the products being investigated; and
(e) in the case of a countervailing duty investigation,
the nature of the subsidy or subsidies in question,
and the trade effects likely to arise therefrom.
(3) None of the factors referred in subsection (2) by itself
shall be considered as necessarily giving any decisive
guidance, but the totality of the factors considered shall
lead to the conclusion that further imports of the dumped or
subsidized products are imminent and that, unless protective
action is taken, injury would occur.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Threat of
material
injury.

<!-- page 65 -->

60 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
79. (1) A determination of material retardation to the
establishment of Sri Lankan industry, for the purposes of
this Act, shall be based on a determination by the Director-
General that -
(a) the Sri Lankan industry producing the like products,
is in the process of being established;
(b) such an industry is viable;
(c) the establishment of such an industry is imminent;
and
(d) the dumped or subsidized imports are, through the
effects of the dumping or countervailable subsidy,
materially retarding the establishment of such an
industry.
(2)   For the purpose of subsection (1), the Director-General
shall consider, amongst others, factors such as feasibility
studies, negotiated loans and contracts for the purchase of
machinery aimed at new investment projects or the
expansion of existing plants, and whether there has been
significant investment for the establishment of such an
industry.
80. Information gathered by any person in the course
of an investigation conducted under this Act, or thereafter,
which is entitled to be treated as confidential information
under subsection (2) of section 25, shall be subject to the
provisions of Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016.
81.  Any party interested who participated in an
investigation, review or refund procedure under this Act,
may seek judicial review of action in terms of Article 140 of
the Constitution.
5
10
15
20
25
Material
retardation.
Confidential
information
not to be
disclosed.
Judicial
review.

<!-- page 66 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 61
82. (1) The Inter-Ministerial Committee to be
constituted for the purpose of this Act shall, subject to the
provisions of subsection (2), consist of the following
members:—
(a) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister, who
shall be the Chairman of the Inter-Ministerial
Committee;
(b) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance or his designated
nominee;
(c) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Industrial Development or
his designated nominee;
(d) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Internal Trade or his
designated nominee;
(e) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Agriculture or his
designated nominee;
(f) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Foreign Affairs or his
designated nominee;
(g) Director General of Customs or his designated
nominee; and
(h) a nominee of the Governor of the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),
where, considering the nature of the proposal being
submitted for his consideration under this Act, the Chairman
may, in consultation with the members referred to in
5
10
15
20
25
30
Constitution
of the Inter-
Ministerial
Committee.

<!-- page 67 -->

62 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection (1), where he considers
it appropriate, co-opt not more than two other members to
the Inter-Ministerial Committee.
(3) The Chairman shall, if present, preside at all meetings
of the Inter-Ministerial Committee, and in the absence of
the Chairman from any such meeting, the members present
shall nominate one of the members present to preside at
such meeting.
(4) The quorum for any meeting of the Inter-Ministerial
Committee shall be four members and the procedure in
regard to the conduct of meetings and the transaction of its
business, shall be regulated by the Inter-Ministerial
Committee.
83. (1) The Director-General may delegate any of his
functions and powers under this Act, to any officer not below
the rank of Deputy Director of Commerce.
(2) An officer to whom any function or power is delegated
under subsection (1), shall discharge or exercise such
function or power, subject to such directions as may be given
by the Director-General.
(3) The Director-General shall, notwithstanding any
delegation made under subsection (1), have the right to
discharge or exercise any function or power so delegated.
84. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are authorized to be made.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette, and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Delegation
by the
Director-
General.
Regulations.

<!-- page 68 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 63
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
85. In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires —
“actionable subsidy” means a subsidy –
(a) that is specific within the meaning of section
66 of this Act;
(b) the grant of which results in the receipt of a
benefit as referred to in subsection (1) of
section 67 of this Act; and
(c) that is not referred to in the Third Schedule to
this Act;
“country” includes a customs union or customs territory;
“Department” means the Department of Commerce;
“Director-General” means the Director-General of
Commerce;
“Director-General of Customs” shall have the same
meaning as given in the Customs Ordinance
(Chapter. 235);
“domestic like product” means the product produced in
Sri Lanka which is a “like product” to the
investigated product, and includes any agricultural
product or livestock product;
5
10
15
20
25
Interpretation.

<!-- page 69 -->

64 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
“dumping” means introduction to the commerce of Sri
Lanka a product at a price which is less than its
normal value;
“dumping margin” means the difference between the
export price and the normal value, expressed as a
percentage of the export price, as it results from the
comparison of the two in accordance with the
provisions of this Act;
“injury” unless otherwise specified, means material  injury
to a Sri Lankan industry, threat of material  injury
to a Sri Lankan industry or material  retardation of
the establishment of a Sri Lankan industry;
“investigated product” means a product subject to an
anti--dumping investigation or subsidized imports,
as described in the notice of initiation of the
investigation;
“like product” means a product which is identical, that is
to say alike in all respects, to the investigated
product, or in the absence of such a product, another
product which, although not alike in all respects,
has characteristics closely resembling those of the
investigated product;
“Member” means a Member Country of the World Trade
Organization established by Marrakesh Agreement
entered into on the 15th of April, 1994;
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of
Trade;
“non-actionable subsidy” means a subsidy which is not
subject to a countervailing duty as determined by
the Director-General under subsection (2) of section
65 of this Act;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 70 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 65
“party interested” means —
(i) the exporter or foreign producer of the
investigated product;
(ii) the importer of the investigated product;
(iii) trade or bu siness associations, a majority of
the members of which are producers, exporters
or importers of the investigated product;
(iv) the government of the exporting country;
(v) the producer of the domestic like product in
Sri Lanka;
(vi) trade and business associations a majority of
the members of which produce the domestic
like product in Sri Lanka;
“prohibited subsidy” means —
(a) subsidies contingent, in law or in fact (where
the facts demonstrates that the granting of
the subsidy is in fact, tied to actual or
anticipated exportation or export earnings)
whether solely or as one of several other
conditions, upon export performance,
including those specified in the Fourth
Schedule to this Act;
(b) subsidies contingent, whether solely or as
one of several other conditions, upon the use
of domestic over imported goods;
 “provisional measures” means —
(a) in relation to Part I of this Act, the requirement
to pay the provisional duty or furnish a
security equal to the estimated dumping
margin found in the preliminary
determination; or
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 71 -->

66 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(b) in relation to part II of this Act, the requirement
to pay the provisional duty or furnish a
security equal to the estimated subsidy found
in the preliminary determination;
“Sri Lankan industry” means the domestic producers as a
whole of the domestic like product or products or
those of them whose collective output of that
product or products constitutes a major proportion
of the total domestic production of that product or
products, except that when producers are related to
the exporters or importers or are themselves
importers of the allegedly dumped investigated
product, the term “Sri Lankan industry” may be
interpreted as referring to the rest of the producers.
For the purposes of this definition, producers shall
be deemed to be related to exporters or importers
only if —
(i) one of them directly or indirectly controls
the other;
(ii) both of them are directly or indirectly
controlled by a third person; or
(iii) together they directly or indirectly control a
third person,
Provided, there are grounds for believing or
suspecting that the effect of the relationship is such
as to cause the producer concerned to behave
differently from non-related producers. For the
purposes of this definition, one shall be deemed to
control another, when the former is legally or
operationally in a position to exercise restraint or
direction over the latter; and
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 72 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 67
“subsidy” means in relation to products that are imported
into Sri Lanka —
(a) a financial contribution by the government
or a public body that is made, including —
(i) a direct transfer of funds including
grants, loans, equity, infusion from
that government or public body;
(ii) a potential direct transfer of funds or
liabilities (loan guarantees etc.) from
that government or public body;
(iii) a foregoing or non-collection of
revenue (fiscal incentives such as tax
credits etc.) due to that government
or public body;
(iv) the provision by that government or
public body of goods or services
otherwise than in the course of
providing  normal  infrastructure
facilities;
(v) the purchase by that government or
public body of products; or
(vi) the payments to a  funding mechanism
or entrusting or directing a private
body to carry out any one or more of
the functions referred to in paragraphs
(i) to  (v) above, which would normally
be  vested in the government and the
practice in no real sense, differs from
practices normally followed by
governments; or
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 73 -->

68 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(b) any form of income or price support in the
sense referred to in Article XVI of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, that is
received from such government or public
body, and a benefit is thereby conferred, but
an exemption of any export product from
duties and taxes born by the like product when
destined for domestic consumption, or the
remission of such duties and taxes in amounts
not in excess of those which have accrued,
by that government, shall not be deemed to
be a “subsidy” within the meaning of this
definition.
86. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 74 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 69
FIRST SCHEDULE
RELIANCE ON INFORMATION AVAILABLE
1. As soon as possible after the initiation of the investigation, the
Director-General shall specify in detail the information required from
any interested party, and the way in which that information shall be
structured by the interested party in its response. The Director-General
shall also ensure that the party is aware that if information is not
supplied within the time period mentioned in the request for
information, the Director-General shall be free to make determinations
on the basis of the facts available, including those contained in the
application for the initiation of the investigation by the Sri Lankan
industry.
2. The Director-General may also request that an interested party
provide its response in a particular medium (e.g. computer tape) or
computer language. Where such a request is made, the Director-
General shall consider the reasonable ability of the interested party to
respond in the preferred medium or computer language, and may not
request the company to use for its response a computer system other
than that used by the firm. The Director-General shall not maintain a
request for a computerized response, if the interested party does not
maintain computerized accounts and if presenting the response as
requested would result in an unreasonable extra burden on the
interested party, e.g. it would entail unreasonable additional cost and
trouble. The Director-General shall not maintain a request for response
in a particular medium or computer language if the interested party
does not maintain its computerized accounts in such medium or
computer language and if presenting the response as requested would
result in an unreasonable extra burden on the interested party, e.g., it
would entail unreasonable additional cost and trouble.
3. All information which is verifiable, which is appropriately
submitted so that it can be used in the investigation without undue
difficulties and which is supplied in a timely fashion, and, where
applicable, supplied in a medium or computer language requested by
the Director-General shall be taken into account when determinations
are made. If a party does not respond in the preferred medium or
computer language, but the Director-General finds that the
circumstances set out in paragraph 2 have been satisfied, this shall not
be considered to significantly impede the investigation.
[section 26 (1)]

<!-- page 75 -->

70 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
4. Where the Director-General does not have the ability to process
information if provided in a particular medium (e.g. computer tape)
the information shall be supplied in the form of written material or
any other form acceptable to the Director-General.
5. Even though the information provided may not be ideal in all
respects, this shall not justify the Director-General from disregarding
it, provided the interested party has acted to the best of its ability.
6 . If evidence or information is not accepted, the supplying party
shall be informed forthwith of the reasons thereof and have an
opportunity to provide further explanations within a reasonable period,
due account being taken of the time-limits of the investigation. If the
explanations are considered by the Director-General as not being
satisfactory, the reasons for rejection of such evidence or information
shall be given in any published findings.
7. If the Director-General has to base its determinations, including
those with respect to normal value, on information from a secondary
source, including the information supplied in the application for the
initiation of the investigation, they shall do so with special
circumspection. In such cases, the Director-General shall, where
practicable, check the information from other independent sources at
their disposal, such as published price lists, official import statistics
and customs returns, and from the information obtained form other
interested parties during the investigation. However, if an interested
party does not co-operate and thus relevant information is being
withheld from the authorities, this situation could lead to a result
which is less favourable to the party than if the party did co-operate.
SECOND SCHEDULE
P
ROCEDURES FOR ON-THE-SPOT INVESTIGATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 33
1. Upon initiation of an investigation, the authorities of the
exporting country and the firms known to be concerned shall be
informed of the intention of the Director-General to carry out an on-
the-spot investigation.
2 . If in exceptional circumstances it is intended to include non--
governmental experts in the investigating team, the firms and the
authorities of the exporting country shall be so informed. Such non-
governmental experts shall be subject to sanctions for breach of
confidentiality requirements provided, as for in section 80 of this
Act.
[section 33 (3)]

<!-- page 76 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 71
3 . It shall be standard practice to obtain explicit agreement of the
firms concerned in the exporting country before the visit is finally
scheduled.
4. As soon as the agreement of the firms concerned has been
obtained, the Director-General shall notify the authorities of the
exporting country of the names and addresses of the firms to be
visited and the dates agreed.
5. The Director-General shall give sufficient advance notice to
the firms in question before the visit is made.
6.Visits to explain the questionnaire shall only be made at the
request of an exporting firm. Such a visit may only be made if the
Director-General notifies the representatives of the government of
the country in question, and unless the latter do not object to the visit.
7. As the main purpose of the on-the-spot investigation is to
verify information provided or to obtain further details, it shall be
carried out after the response to the questionnaire has been received,
unless the firm agrees to the contrary and the government of the
exporting country is informed by the Director-General of the
anticipated visit and does not object to it; further, it shall be standard
practice prior to the visit to advice the firms concerned of the general
nature of the information to be verified and of any further information
which needs to be provided, though this shall not preclude requests to
be made on the spot for further details to be provided, in the light of
information obtained.
8. Enquiries or questions put by the authorities or firms of the
exporting countries and essential to a successful on-the-spot
investigation shall, whenever possible, be answered before the visit is
made.
THIRD SCHEDULE
N
ON-ACTIONABLE SUBSIDIES
1. Assistance for research activities conducted by any body of
persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated, or by any higher
educational or research establishments on a contract basis with such
body of persons,   where —
(a) the assistance covers not more than seventy-five per centum
of the costs of industrial research or fifty per centum  of the
costs of pre-competitive development activity; and
[section 65 (2) ( b)]

<!-- page 77 -->

72 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(b) the assistance is limited exclusively to cover —
(i) cost of researchers, technicians and other supporting
staff employed exclusively in the research activity;
(ii) cost of instruments, equipment, land and buildings
used exclusively and permanently for the research
activity and not disposed of on a commercial basis;
(iii) cost of consultancy and equivalent services used
exclusively for the research activity, including
bought-in research, technical knowledge, patents,
etc.;
(iv) additional overhead costs incurred directly as a result
of the research activity;
(v) other running costs, such as materials, supplies and
the like, incurred directly as a result of the research
activity.
2. Assistance to disadvantaged regions within the territory of a
Member given pursuant to a general framework of regional
development, and not specific (within the meaning of section 66)
within eligible regions, provided that —
(a) each disadvantaged region must be a clearly designated
contiguous geographical area with a definable economic
and administrative identity;
(b) the region is considered as disadvantaged on the basis of
neutral and objective criteria, indicating that the region’s
difficulties arise out of more than temporary circumstances.
The criteria shall clearly be spelled out in law, regulation or
other official document, so as to be capable of verification;
(c) the criteria includes a measurement of economic
development which shall be based on at least one of the
following factors:—
(i) one of either income per capita or household income
per capita, or GDP per capita, which must not be
above eighty five per centum  of the average for the
territory concerned;
(ii) unemployment rate which must be at least one
hundred and ten per centum  of the average for the
territory concerned (as measured over a three year
period, such measurement, however may be a
composite one and may include other factors).

<!-- page 78 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 73
3. Assistance to promote adaptation of existing facilities to new
environmental requirements imposed by any law or regulations, which
result in greater constraints and financial burden on firms, provided
that the assistance —
(a) is a one-time non-recurring measure;
(b) is limited to twenty per centum  of the cost of adaptation;
(c) does not cover the cost of replacing and operating the
assisted investment, which must be fully borne by firms;
(d) is directly linked to and proportionate to a firm’s planned
reduction of nuisances and pollution, and does not cover
any manufacturing cost savings which may be achieved;
and
(e) is available to all firms, which can adopt the new equipment
and/or production processes.
Director-General may refer to the World Trade Organization
“AGREEMENT ON SUBSIDIES AND COUNTERVAILING
MEASURES” for any verification of non-actionable subsidies specified
in this Schedule, and may consider, among others, modifications
made by the World Trade Organization “Committee on Subsidies and
Countervailing Measures” in the identification of non-actionable
subsidies.
FOURTH SCHEDULE
P
ROHIBITED SUBSIDIES
1. Illustrative List of Export Subsidies —
(a) The provision by governments of direct subsidies to
anybody of persons whether incorporate or
unincorporate or an industry, contingent upon export
performance;
(b) Currency retention schemes or any similar practices
which involve a bonus on exports;
(c) Internal transport and freight charges on export
shipments, provided or mandated by governments,
on terms more favourable than for domestic shipments;
[section 85]

<!-- page 79 -->

74 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
(d) The provision by governments or their agencies either
directly or indirectly through government mandated
schemes, of imported or domestic products or services
for use in the production of exported goods, on terms
or conditions more favourable than for provision of
like or directly competitive products or services for
use in the production of goods for domestic
consumption, if (in the case of products) such terms
or conditions are more favourable than those
commercially available on world markets to their
exporters;
(e) The full or partial exemption remission, or deferral
specifically related to exports, of direct taxes or social
welfare charges paid or payable by industrial or
commercial enterprises;
(f) The allowance of special deductions directly related
to exports or export performance, over and above
those granted in respect to production for domestic
consumption, in the calculation of the base on which
direct taxes are charged;
(g) The exemption or remission, in respect of the
production and distribution of exported products, of
indirect taxes in excess of those levied in respect of
the production and distribution of like products, when
sold for domestic consumption;
(h) The exemption, remission or deferral of prior-stage
cumulative indirect taxes on goods or services used in
the production of exported products in excess of the
exemption, remission or deferral of like prior-stage
cumulative indirect taxes on goods or services used in
the production of like products when sold for domestic
consumption:
Provided, that, prior-stage cumulative indirect taxes
may be exempted, remitted or deferred on exported
products even when not exempted, remitted or deferred
on like products when sold for domestic consumption,
if the prior-stage cumulative indirect taxes are levied
on inputs that are consumed in the production of the
exported product (making normal allowance for
waste). The provisions of this paragraph shall be
interpreted in accordance with the “Guidelines on
Consumption of Inputs in the Production Process”
referred to in item 2 of this Schedule;

<!-- page 80 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 75
(i) The remission of drawback of import charges in excess
of those levied on imported inputs that are consumed
in the production of the exported product (making
normal allowance for waste):
Provided, that, in particular cases anybody of
persons incorporated or unincorporated may use a
quantity of home market inputs equal to, and having
the same quality and characteristics as, the imported
inputs as a substitute for them in order to benefit from
this provision, if the import and the corresponding
export operations both occur within a reasonable time
period, not exceeding two years. The provisions of
this paragraph shall be interpreted in accordance with
the “Guidelines on Consumption of Inputs in the
Production Process” specified in item 2 of this Schedule
and the “Guidelines in the Determination of
Substitution Drawback Systems as Export Subsidies”
specified in item 3 of this Schedule;
(j) The provision by governments (or special institutions
controlled by governments) of export credit guarantee
or insurance programmes, of insurance or guarantee
programmes against increases in the cost of exported
products or of exchange risk programmes, at premium
rates which are inadequate to cover the long-term
operating costs and losses of the  programmes;
(k) The grant by governments (or special institutions
controlled by and/or acting under the authority of
governments) of export credits at rates below those
which they actually have to pay for the funds so
employed (or would have to pay if they borrowed on
international capital markets in order to obtain funds
of the same maturity and other credit terms and
denominated in the same currency as the export credit),
or the payment by them of all or part of the costs
incurred by exporters or financial institutions in
obtaining credits, in so far as they are used to secure a
material advantage in the field of  export credit terms:
Provided, that, if a Member is a party to an
international undertaking on official export credits to
which at least twelve original Members to the World
Trade Organization “AGREEMENT ON SUBSIDIES
AND COUNTERVAILING MEASURES” are parties
as of 1 January 1979 ( or successor undertaking which
has been adopted by those original Members), or if in
practice a Member applies the interest rates provisions

<!-- page 81 -->

76 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
of the relevant undertaking, an export credit practice
which is in conformity with those provisions shall
not be considered an export subsidy prohibited by
the World Trade Organization “AGREEMENT
ON SUBSIDIES AND COUNTERVAILING
MEASURES”;
(l) Any other charge on the public account constituting
an export subsidy in the sense of Article XVI of GATT
1994.
2.  Guidelines on Consumption of Inputs in the Production
Process —
(1) Indirect tax rebate schemes can allow for exemption,
remission or deferral of prior-stage cumulative indirect
taxes levied on inputs that are consumed in the production
of the exported product  (making normal allowance for
waste).
(2) Similarly, drawback schemes can allow for the remission
or drawback of import charges levied in inputs that are
consumed in the production of the exported product
(making normal allowance for waste).
(3) The Illustrative List of Export Subsidies specified in item 1
of this Schedule, makes reference to the term “inputs that
are consumed in the production of the exported product”
in paragraphs ( h) and ( i). Pursuant to paragraph ( h), indirect
tax rebate schemes can constitute an export subsidy to the
extent that they result in exemption, remission or deferral
of prior-stage cumulative indirect taxes in excess of the
amount of such taxes actually levied on inputs that are
consumed in the production of the exported product.
Pursuant to paragraph ( i), drawback schemes can constitute
an export subsidy to the extent that they result in a remission
or drawback of import charges in excess of those actually
levied on inputs that are consumed in the production of the
exported product. Both paragraphs stipulate that normal
allowance for waste must be made in findings regarding
consumption of inputs in the production of the exported
product. Paragraph ( i) also provides for substitution, where
appropriate.
(4) In examining whether inputs are consumed in the
production of the exported product, as part of a

<!-- page 82 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 77
countervailing duty investigation conducted under Part II
of this Act, the Director-General shall proceed on the
following basis:—
(a) where it is alleged that an indirect tax rebate
scheme, or a drawback scheme, conveys a subsidy
by reason of over-rebate or excess drawback of
indirect taxes or import charges on inputs consumed
in the production of the exported product, the
Director-General shall first determine whether the
government of the exporting Member has in place
and applies a system or procedure to confirm which
inputs are consumed in the production of the
exported product and in what amounts. Where
such a system or procedure is determined to be
applied, the Director-General shall then examine
the system or procedure to see whether it is
reasonable, effective for the purpose intended, and
based on generally accepted commercial practices
in the country of export. The Director-General
may, in accordance with section 33 of this Act,
carry out certain practical tests in order to verify
information or to satisfy itself that the system or
procedure is being effectively applied;
(b) where there is no such system or procedure, where
it is not reasonable, or where it is instituted and
considered reasonable but is found not to be applied
or not to be applied effectively, a further
examination by the exporting Member based on
the actual inputs involved would need to be carried
out in the context of determining whether an excess
payment occurred. If the Director-General deems
it necessary, a further examination may be carried
out in accordance with paragraph ( a);
(c) the Director-General shall treat inputs as physically
incorporated if such inputs are used in the
production process and are physically present in
the product exported. The Members note that an
input need not be present in the final product in
the same form in which it entered the  production
process;
(d) in determining the amount of a particular input
that is consumed in the production of the exported
product, a “normal allowance for waste” shall be
taken into account, and such waste shall be treated
as consumed in the production of the exported

<!-- page 83 -->

78 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties
product. The term “waste” refers to that portion of
a given input which does not serve an independent
function in the production process, is not consumed
in the production of the exported product (for
reasons such as inefficiencies) and is not recovered,
used or sold by the same manufacturer;
(e) the Director-General’s determination of whether
the claimed allowance for waste is “normal” shall
take into account the production process, the
average experience of the industry in the country
of export, and other technical factors, as
appropriate. The Director-General shall bear in
mind that an important question is whether the
authorities in the exporting Member, have
reasonably calculated the amount of waste, when
such an amount is intended to be included in the
tax or duty rebate or remission.
3. Guidelines in the Determination of Substitution Drawback
Systems as Export Subsidies —
(1) Drawback systems can allow for the refund or drawback of
import charges on inputs which are consumed in the
production process of another product, and where the export
of this latter product contains domestic inputs having the
same quality and characteristics as those substituted for the
imported inputs. Pursuant to paragraph ( i) of the Illustrative
List of Export Subsidies specified in this Schedule,
substitution drawback systems can constitute an export
subsidy to the extent that they result in an excess drawback
of the import charges levied initially on the imported inputs
for which drawback is being claimed.
(2) In examining any substitution drawback system as part of a
countervailing duty investigation conducted under Part II
of this Act, the Director-General shall proceed on the
following  basis:—
(a) paragraph ( i) of the Illustrative List of Export
Subsidies specified in the Schedule, stipulates that
home market inputs may be substituted for imported
inputs in the production of a product for export,
provided such inputs are equal in quantity to, and
have the same quality and characteristics as, the
imported inputs being substituted. The existence of
a verification system or procedure is important,
because it enables the government of the exporting
Member to ensure and demonstrate that the quantity

<!-- page 84 -->

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 79
of inputs for which drawback is claimed does not
exceed the quantity of similar products exported, in
whatever form, and that there is not drawback of
import charges in excess of those originally levied
on the imported inputs in question;
(b) where it is alleged that a substitution drawback system
conveys a subsidy, the Director-General shall first
proceed to determine whether the government of
the exporting Member has in place and applies a
verification system or procedure. Where such a
system or procedure is determined to be applied, the
Director-General shall then examine the verification
procedures to see whether they are reasonable,
effective for the purpose intended, and based on
generally accepted commercial practices in the
country of export. To the extent that the procedures
are determined to meet this test and are effectively
applied, no subsidy shall be presumed to exist. The
Director-General may in accordance with section 33
of this Act, carry out certain practical tests in order
to verify information or to satisfy itself that the
verification procedures are being effectively applied;
(c) where there are no verification procedures, or where
they are not reasonable, or where such procedures
are instituted and considered reasonable but are
found not to be actually applied or not applied
effectively, there may be a subsidy. In such cases, a
further examination by the exporting Member, based
on the actual transactions involved would need to
be carried out to determine whether an excess
payment occurred. If the Director-General deems it
necessary, a further examination would be carried
out in accordance with paragraph ( b);
(d) the existence of a substitution drawback provision
under which exporters are allowed to select particular
import shipments on which drawback is claimed,
shall not of itself be considered to convey a subsidy;
(e) an excess drawback of import charges in the sense
of paragraph ( i) of the Illustrative List of Export
Subsidies specified in this Schedule, shall be deemed
to exist, where governments paid interest on any
moneys refunded under their drawback schemes, to
the extent of the  interest actually paid or payable.

<!-- page 85 -->

80 Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties