

<!-- page 1 -->

SPECIAL  EDUCATIONAL
SOCIETY  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No.  3  OF  1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 10th February, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 1999
   PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
Internet Version

<!-- page 2 -->

1Special Educational Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 3 of 1999
[Certified on 10th February, 1999]
L.D.–O.18/95.
A N   ACT   TO   INCORPORATE   THE   SPECIAL   EDUCATIONAL   SOCIETY
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Special Educational Society” has heretofore been formed at
Polommaruwa, Tangalle for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all matters connected with the
said Association according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects and
matters for which it was formed, and has applied to be
incorporated and now it will be for the public advantage to
grant the said application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–
1. This Act may be cited as the Special Educational
Society (Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 1999.
2. From and after the commencement of this Act, such and
so many persons as now are members of the Special
Educational Society, Polommaruwa, Tangalle (hereinafter
referred to as the “Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation here by constituted shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of “Special
Educational Society” and by that name may sue and be sued,
in all Courts with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be–
(a) to rehabilitate disabled persons, by providing them
with educational services and engaging them in so-
cial services ;
(b) to grant awards to disabled persons ;
preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Special
Educational
Society.
General Objects
of the
Corporation.
H - 022545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Special Educational Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 3 of 1999
(c) to provide necessary aid and assistance to victims
of natural disasters ;
(d) to protect and safeguard the rights of disabled
persons ;
(e) to provide nutritious food, medical facilities,
vocational training and employment to disabled
persons ;
(f)to establish and maintain libraries, to subscribe for
and issue books, journals, souvenirs and periodicals ;
(g) to promote, arrange, organize and hold, exhibitions,
lectures, seminars, symposia, workshops, classes,
debates, conferences, tours and excursions ;
(h) to co-operate and associate, with other associations,
societies or organizations having objects similar to
those of the Corporation ;
(i)to do all such other acts and things as are conducive
or incidental to , the attainment of all or any of the
above objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary of desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise money, with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Management consisting of such
number of members as may be provided for in such rules,
and elected in accordance therewith.
General Powers of
the Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Special Educational Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 3 of 1999
(2) The First Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Board of Management of
the Society holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act and, whose names are
specified in the Schedule hereto.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or other
written law, for all or any of the following matters :–
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the clection of the office - bearers, the resignation
from, or vacation of, or removal from, office
of, office bearers, and their powers, conduct and
duties ;
(c) the election of the members of the Board of
Management and its powers, conduct and duties
and the terms of members of the Board of
Management ;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding, of meetings of the Board of
Management, the times, places, notices and agenda
of such meetings, the quorum therefore and the
conduct of bussinetss thereat ;
(f)the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and
the maintenance and audit of its accounts ; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Special Educational Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 3 of 1999
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and
in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject
to the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
request, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Management shall determine.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund
or a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,
development or improvement of the property of the
Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of the
Corporation all sums of money to defray any expenditure
incurred of the Corporation in the exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be paid by the Corporaiton hereby constituted and all debts
due to, subcriptions and contributions payable to the society
on the day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, and it shall have full power to sell, mortgage,l
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
Funds of the
Corporation.
Debts due by and
payable to the
Society.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Special Educational Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 3 of 1999
Property
remaining of
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there remains
after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any property,
whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed among the
members of the Corporation but shall be given or transferred
to some other Society or Societies having objects, similar to
those of the Corporation and which is or are by the rules
prohibited from distributing any income or profit among its
or their members. Such Society or Societies shall be
determined by the members of the Corporation at or
immediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
the Executive Secretary and it shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the President
and the Secretary who shall sign their names to the instrument
in token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any such person as witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic of corporate
or any other person except such as are mentioned in this Act,
and those claiming by, from, or under, them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shal prevail.
SCHEDULE [Section 5 (2)]
Board of Management
President : Mr. E. A. S. Dissanayake
Vice President : Mr. H. T. Kusumapala
Executive Secretary : Mr. W. R. Perera
Secretary : Mr. W. T. Perera
Asst. Secretary : Mr. L. Liyanagma
Treasurer : Mr. W. P. Perera
Manager : Mr. P. V. Vijayaratna
Committee Members
Mr. K. V. Ariyasena
Mr. Sugath Hettige
Mr. W. A. Siripala
Mr. W. A. Piyasiri
Mr. P. M. Sirisena
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
Inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of sthe Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign).
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.