

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1777$39 - 2012 iema;eïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'09'28
No. 1777/39 - FRIDAY   SEPTEMBER   28,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
SOUTHERN     PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
REGULATIONS, imposed under section II of the statute bearing No. 2009/1 (amendment) of the Southern Provincial Road
Passenger Transport Authority of the Southern Province Provincial Council, are hereby published.
Regulations so as to regularize the passenger transport service by Three-wheelers as appearing in Statute
(Amendment) bearing No. 1 of 2009 imposed by Southern Provincial Road Passenger Transport Authority, upon the powers
vested in me, under section 41 of   the Statute bearing No. 02 of 1996, I, Shan Vijayalal de Silva, the Minister of Finance,
Planning, Law and Order, Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services, Health, Indigenous
Medicine and Local Government of the Southern Province Provincial Council, are hereby noticed.
S
HAN WIJAYALAL DE SILV A,
Minister of Finance, Planning, Law and Order,
Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity,
Engineering Services, Health, Indigenous Medicine
and Local Government of the Southern Province Provincial Council, Galle
This 24th day of August, 2012,
Ministry of Finance, Planning, Law and Order,
Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity,
Engineering Services, Health, Indigenous Medicine
and Local Government of the Southern Province Provincial Council,
Galle.
Rules
01. These Regulations are referred to as the “Three-wheeler Passenger Transport Service Regulations No. 01 of
2012” of the Southern Province Provincial Council, and these Regulations will be operative as from 15th of
September 2012.
02. Since 15th of September 2012 Three-wheeler shall be employed within the Limits of Southern Province for
transport passengers on levying charges separately or hiring basis without registration or without a Regular
Passenger Route Permit obtained from the Southern Province Road Passenger Transport Authority.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
2A
03. This Permit will be issued to the lawful owner of the vehicle, in the name of the lawful owner of the Three-
wheeler, but however when the vehicle is not owned by the operator, and if the lawful owner is willing to grant
authority in writing to the operator, it is authorized to issue a Permit in the name of the operator. However lawful
owner of the vehicle also have the responsibility to perform the conditions of the Permit and for the performance
of the conditions therein in the Permit. This rule will be operative when the ownership of the permits, are
regularized.
04. When granting permits, priority shall be given to the residents close to the Three-wheeler Park.
05. The Authority is having the power to reject any application for a Permit, renewal of permits or to transfer from
a Three-wheeler Park to any other park.
05.1 When using such a discretion, the following matters have to be considered by the Authority :-
(a) To what extent have the Three-wheelers parked at the Three-Wheeler Park performed or fulfilled
the requirements of passenger service ;
(b) Is it appropriate to issue new permits to the Three-wheelers if the Three-wheelers now operating in
the Three-wheeler Park have fulfilled the needs of passengers ;
(c) To decide the necessity of a Three-wheeler Park and as to whether it is appropriate. (it is left to the
Authority to prepare rules and regulations with regard to the Three-wheelers which are not operating
from a Three-wheeler Park) ;
(d) To check whether Three-wheel operating the passenger transport in a separate place other than
the  Three-wheeler Park, has submitted the recommendation of the Grama Seva Officer of the
relevant area  with the same having been counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.
06. When issuing permits to all the Three-wheelers presently operated, to check Insurance Certificate, Registration
of the Motor V ehicles, Revenue Licence, recommendation of the Organization of the Three-wheelers operators
(where operators are not having the membership of the organization, recommendation of the Grama Seva
Officer,  countersigned by the Divisional Secretary that the Three-wheeler transport passengers on levying
charges or on hiring basis) When the operator is not the lawful owner, a letter from the lawful owner requesting
to issue a permit in the name of the operator a letter attested by a Justice of the Peace together with the payment
receipt of the charges for the renewal of the permit and the fee for the application fixed by the Authority shall
be submitted and obtain the permit for 2012 and 2013. This rule is applicable only for the year 2012 and 2013.
07. After 2013 when obtaining Permits, renewal of the Permits and making any amendment it is necessary to submit
such application within one month, as per form (Schedule 1) by the holder or if it is an organization by the
Authorized Officer of the Organization. Such applications have to be submitted together with the following
documents and payment receipts of charges :-
07.1 Registration Certificate of the Three-wheeler or a Certificate issued by the Commissioner of Motor
Traffic and a photocopy of the said Certificate ;
07.2 Un-limited Insurance Certificate covering all the passengers travelling in the Three-wheeler ;
07.3 Annual Revenue Licence issued by the Southern Province Provincial Commissioner or Motor Traffic (if
the vehicle is having a starting Permits obtained in 2012 a valid Revenue License issued by the
Commissioner of Motor Traffic) ;
07.4 A photocopy of the Driving License ;
07.5 In case of renewal of a permit, the present permit and the label;

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
07.6 Payment receipt of the charges imposed by the Authority ;
07.7 When necessary Certificate of Membership issued by an organization accepted by the Authority.
08. The permit shall be as appearing in the Second Schedule.
09. Permit label (Windscreen label) as appearing in the Third Schedule hereof.
10. Charges imposed by the Authority shall be as appearing in the Fourth Schedule hereof.
11. All applications submitted to make a permit operative such applications shall be submitted within a period not
less than one month before the date which the applicant expect it to be operative.
12. The permit is comprising of the following rules and conditions :-
12.1 A Passenger Transport Permit issued to any person, cannot be transferred or assigned to any other
person at his own discretion and such transfer or assignment will be null and void and will not be
effective. And if such an occasion is detected, such a permits shall be cancelled. But however, the
Authority is having the authority in order to regularize the transport service and for a better service,
without any harm to the authority and if the Authority considers it is necessary to regularize the ownership
of the permit, it has the power to take steps for same in such an occasion ;
12.2 The permit is effective for a period of 12 months from the date of issue, unless otherwise stated ;
12.3 It is left to the permits holder and its employees to maintain the vehicle in good mechanical condition, in
a good running condition and a clean and good condition so as to give the relevant service ;
12.4 The responsibilities of the permit holder and the Three-Wheeler driver, are considered to be the rules and
regulations of the permit ;
12.5 The regulations imposed by the Authority from time  to time for the safety of the passengers and for a
better service, have to be implemented.
13. Documents exhibited in the Three-wheeler and the documents to be possessed ;
13.1 Documents to be kept in the Three-wheelers :
(a) The original of the permits (The Schedule 02)
(b) Label (The Schedule 03)
(c) Chart of the hiring charges approved by the Authority
(d) The things carried under the Motor Traffic Ordinance
(i) Revenue Licence ;
(ii) Certificate of Insurance ;
(iii) Driving License.
13.2 Things to be exhibited :
(a) A photocopy of permit label ;
(b) Chart containing the approved charges ;
(c) The number of the permit issued by the Authority and the Registration Number of the
Three-wheeler.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
4A
14. Responsibilities of the permit holder.
14.1 The permit holder should become a member of a Three-wheeler organization accepted or approved by
the Authority, for the betterment of the passenger transport and for easy administration ;
14.2 In case of an accident to the Three-wheeler such accident to be informed to the Authority within 07 days
from the date of accident, through the organization ;
14.3 In case of a serious accident or fatal accident, such an accident has to be notified to the Authority and
the transporting have to be stopped until a fresh fitness report is obtained ;
14.4 A driver of a Three-wheeler who had caused a fatal accident should not be engaged in service until it is
certified that he is healthwise fit. (Fatal accident means an accident where a person who was involved in
the accident dies due to that same reason) ;
14.5 Activities have to be done at all times causing no harm to other operators.
15. The responsibilities of a Three-wheeler driver.
15.1 The Three-Wheeler shall be driven in such way ensuring the protection, comforts of travelers and trust
of the passengers ;
15.2 Passengers in the Three-Wheeler shall not exceed the number of passengers approved ;
15.3 The conduct and the character shall be good, and also shall respect all the passengers and the Government
Officers and other Officers as well ;
15.4 Wh ile in service the operator must refrain from consuming liquor and dangerous drugs or shall not use
liquor and dangerous drugs while on duty ;
15.5 Shall not allow any person to smoke, consuming liquor and dangerous drugs in the vehicle ;
15.6 Whenever an authorized Officer of the Authority wants to check the vehicle and the relevant documents
and demands the documents, such documents have to be produced ;
15.7 The driver of the Three-wheeler shall participate the training sessions conducted by the Authority ;
15.8 The Three-wheelers shall not be parked obstructing the other vehicles in the park, and shall be parked at
the proper place ;
15.9 While on duty, the driver shall at all times wear a uniform authorized by Authority ;
15.10 In case of an accident, or any other unavoidable mechanical defect failing to take the passenger up to his
destination, charges of transporting to be levied only up to the place the defect had occurred ; and the
driver shall take all the steps to find an alternative mean of transport to the passengers ;
15.11 Shall not charge or obtain a fee exceeding the approved fee, from a passenger ;
15.12. Shall not get involved directly or indirectly in grave crimes, torture of women, child abusing or any other
unlawful activity.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
16. Responsibilities of passenger :
16.1 Shall refrain from smoking, consuming liquor or dangerous drugs in the Three-wheeler.
16.2 Shall behave well in the Three-wheeler.
17. Responsibilities of the Three-wheeler operators' Organization.
17.1 It is the responsibility of the organization to enroll the members  to the Three-wheeler Operators'
Organization under a legal background and to continue the work of every organization.
17.2 There must be Three-wheeler Operators' Organization in all administrative limits of Divisional Secretariat
Divisions. These Unions/Organizations may extend upto Divisional Organizations, District Organizations
and Provincial Organizations.
17.3 It is also the responsibility of organizations to see that all the operators are adhering to the rules and
conditions hereof.
17.4 the constitutions of the organizations shall include the regulations necessary for the implementation of
matters specified in the regulation.
17.5. The Operators' Organization must maintain regular links with the authority by assisting the Authority to
get the recommendations and reports required to the Authority.
17.6 The organizations is bound to implement the regulations imposed by the Authority for regularizing and
directing the Three-wheeler service and it's betterment.
18. Regulations for establishment of Three-wheeler parks
18.1 Necessary Three-wheeler parks may be established with the consent of the Local Body, Police, Road
Development Authority, Provincial Road Development Authority and with the consent of the Authority.
18.2 Administration and the management of the Three-wheeler park shall be done by Three-wheeler
Organization subject to the conditions imposed by the Authority.
18.3 Rents for the Three-wheeler park payable to the Local Body shall be paid by the respective Permit
Holders or by the said Organization.
19. Permit Holders too shall be responsible for breaching of rules by the Three-wheeler drivers.
20. Taxi Meters shall be fixed to the vehicles and such Meters shall be in accordance with the hiring charges fixed
by the Authority from time to time.
21. When a permit holder who has obtained a permit under these regulations submit an application (Schedule 1)
for the renewal of the permit, to the Authority and if the Authority is satisfied that,
(i) the said permit holder has acted in accordance with these regulations and or the provisions made under
it ;
(ii) has not been convicted for any offence under the rules made under it ;
(iii) has paid all the fees prescribed to be paid to the Authority and has performed all the relevant conditions.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
6A
The Authority may revalidate the period of validity by one year or less from the date on which its date of
validity expires.
22. Any person who contravenes, default or neglects these rules is guilty of an offence.
23. At an inspection made by the officers authorized by the Authority or by investigating groups, where party
who have breached these rules also have admitted that these regulations and the offences mentioned under
Schedule 5 have been breached, the Authority has the powers to take the following action :
(i) To obtain a statement signed by them saying that the party would not repeat the breach of rules revealed
at the inspection or that the party would correct themselves.
(ii) To charge a surcharge of Rs. 400 for the offences mentioned in Schedule 5.
(iii) To enforce both (i) and (ii) ways action.
If the permit holder does not agree to act under (i) and (ii) above the Authority has powers to act under
Section 23 or 42 of the Southern Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Authority Act, No. 02 of
1996 against the permit holder.
24. The Authority has the power to issue instructions regarding the activities to be followed by the Three-wheeler
Operators' Organization, reports to be maintained by such Organizations and submittance of such reports to
the Authority and the notices to be exhibited in the vehicles.
Schedule 01
A
PPLICATION FOR A THREE-WHEELER PASSENGER TRANSPORT SERVICE - PERMIT
SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL ROAD PASSENGER TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
1. The number of the Permit, if a permit is available :
2. Number of the Three-wheeler :
3. Three-wheeler Park :…………………………………………………………………………
4. Distance to the Three-wheeler park from the applicants residence in K. M. :…………………………………
5. Information regarding the Applicant  :
5.1 Name in full  :………………………………………………………………………………
5.2 Name with initials  :………………………………………………………………………
5.3 Address  :…………………………………………………………………………………
5.4 Telephone No. :……………………………………………………………………………
5.5 National Identity Card No. :………………………………………………………………
5.6 Date of  birth  :………………………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
5.7 Name of the spouse and address if married :………………………………………………………
5.8 Information regarding the residence of the applicant.
5.8.1 Province  :………………………………………………………
5.8.2 District :………………………………………………………
5.8.3 Divisional Secretariat Division :………………………………………………………
5.8.4 Police Division :………………………………………………………
5.8.5 Grama Niladhari Division :………………………………………………………
5.9 Is the applicant in service of a Government Department/a Corporation/Board/Armed Services ?
(Yes/No.)*
5.9.1 If “Yes” name of the relevant Institution :………………………………………………………
5.10 Particulars of  Bank Accounts :………………………………………………………
5.10.1 Name of the Bank :………………………………………………………
5.10.2 Bank Branch :………………………………………………………
5.10.3 Account No. :………………………………………………………
6. Particulars of Insurance Cover
6.1 Name of the Insurance Company/Corporation :………………………………………………………
6.2 Category of the Insurance :………………………………………………………
6.3 Expiry Date :………………………………………………………
7. Particulars of revenue license
7.1 Date of expiry of the revenue license :………………………………………………………
7.2 Name of the Divisional Secretariat :………………………………………………………
(in case of owner drives, it is not necessary to fill up from 8.1 to 8.6)
8. Details regarding the driver of the vehicle
8.1 Name in full :………………………………………………………
8.2 Name with initials :………………………………………………………
8.3 Address :………………………………………………………
8.4 Telephone No. :………………………………………………………
8.5 National Identity Card No. :………………………………………………………
4—PG 001397

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
8A
8.6 Date of Birth :………………………………………………………
8.7 Three-wheeler driving licence No. :………………………………………………………
8.8 Date of obtaining the Driving Licence :………………………………………………………
8.9 Expiry date of the Three-wheeler driving licence :………………………………………………………
9. Did the driver participate the Three-wheeler driving training course conducted by the Southern   Provincial
Road Passenger Transport Authority ? (Yes/ No)*
9.1 If “Yes” date and place :………………………………………………………
10. If registered in an organization details of same :………………………………………………………
10.1 Name of the Organization :………………………………………………………
10.2 Membership No. :………………………………………………………
I certify that the information given by me in this applications are all true and accurate. I am fully aware that in the event
conditions of the relevant permit issued to me, are breached or if I failing to work as per instruction of the Authority, I am liable
to pay the Authority surcharges/ suspension of my permit/cancellation of my permit or I am liable to be punished under the
Statute.
………………………………………
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :……………………………
*Delete inapplicable words.
Schedule 01 (a)
Documents to be submitted with the Application
1. Certificate of Registration of the Three-wheeler or a Certificate issued by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic
indicating the details of Registration of such particular vehicle, together with a photocopy thereof.
2. Certificate if Insurance indicating unlimited cover to all passenger travelling in the Three-wheeler
3. Annual Revenue Licence issued by the Southern Province Provincial Commissioner of Motor Traffic together
with  a photocopy thereof (in case where a permits is a starting one issued in 2012 and if the Three-wheeler is
serving in another province valid revenue licence issued by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic of the said
Province)
4. A photocopy of the Driving Licence
5. If for a renewal of the permits, the present permit and its label
6. Payment receipt of the fees chargeable to the Authority
7. In case where the operator is not the lawful owner of the Three-wheeler, a letter from the owner requesting to
issue the relevant permit in the name of the operator (Such letter should be attested by a Justice of the Peace)
8. Where necessary, a Certificate of Membership from a Three-wheeler operating Organization accepted by the
Authority.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
Schedule 02
REGULAR   THREE-  WHEELER    PASSENGER    SERVICE    PERMIT
Issued by the Southern Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Authority as per Statute No. 02 of 1996 as amended
by Statute No. 1 of 2009.


<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
10A


<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
Schedule 04
CHARGES PRESCRIBED BY THE AUTHORITY
These rules are referred to as rules for Transporting Passengers by Three-wheelers. The relevant charges stated in Column
II of this Schedule shall be the charge payable for a function of some subject mentioned in Column I of this Schedule.
Column I Column II
Functions Amount of
charges payable
Rs. Cts.
01. Annual Service Charges 500.00
02. Annual charge for the renewal of regular permit for a Three-wheeler 100.00
03. Levying of surcharge by the Authority of 10% of the accrued balance when
detecting that the due renewal had not been done in time on the due date
04. Issuing a duplicate of Three-wheeler Passenger Transport permit when the
original has been misplaced 250.00
05. Issuing a duplicate of Three-wheeler Passenger Transport permit - Label 100.00
06. Issuing Regular Three-wheeler Passenger Transport permit 1,000.00
07. Charges for regulating ownership of Three-wheeler Passenger Transport Permit 2,000.00
08. Assignment of the permit to the person who is lawfully entitled to it when the
holder of the permit dies. (wife/husband/children) 500.00
09. Assignment of the Permit in an instance of a death of permit holder and where
there is no lawful successor to the same (Levying charge in No. 07 is Applicable)
(Further fees in No. 01, 02 should also be added)
10. Replacement of Three-wheeler in lieu of the Three-wheeler relevant to the
Three-wheeler regular Passenger service permit 500.00
11. Changing the Three-wheeler park 500.00
Schedule - 05
Offences :
01. Non exhibition of the Permit Label.
02. Non exhibition of the chart indicating the charges.
03. Failing to show the number of passengers approved to travel in the Three-wheeler.
04. Failing to exhibit the permit number in the Three-wheeler.
05. Carrying the passengers without wearing the official dress.
06. Non availability of the Taxi-Meter.
07. Operating the Three-wheeler without a permit.
5—PG 001397

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
12A
08. Operating the Three-wheeler without possessing documents mentioned in the Motor Traffic Ordinance.
09. Finding that the Three-wheeler was driven purposely with the intention of gaining other’s income.
10. Failing to follow the orders instructions given by the officers of the Authority.
11. Failing to charge the approved fees.
12. Carrying on the service from an outside park other than the approved park and damaging the other’s income
13. Using of instruments which creates nuisance to the public by its noise.
14. Other offences
The Sinhalese version shall prevail in case of any inconsistency in these regulations among Sinhalese/Tamil/English versions.
Interpretation :
01. Operators Organization means, a registered society under Co-operatives Act, Companies Act, or a Society
registered in a Divisional Secretariat or any Government Institution/Organization or an Organization registered
under Southern Provincial Road Passenger Transport Authority.
02. Three-wheeler park means a place where hiring Three-wheeler of more than one operator have been parked
providing passenger transport service on hiring basis.
10 - 603/1
SOUTHERN    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Provincial Council Notifications
The regulations enacted under Section II of the Southern Province Road Passenger Transport Authority (Amendment)
Statute No. 01/2009 of the Southern Province Provincial Council, are published hereby.
I, Shan Wijayalal de Silva the Minister of Finance, Planning, Law and Order, Transport, Water Supply and Drainage,
Electricity, Engineering Services, Health, Indigenous Medicine and Local Government of the Southern Province Provincial
Council upon the powers vested in me under Section 41 of the Southern Province Road Passenger Transport Authority
Statute No. 02 of 1996, do hereby give notice of the regulations enacted with regard to the transport services transporting
school children as mentioned in the Southern Province Road Passenger Transport Authority (amendment) statute No. 01/
2009.
S
HAN WIJAYALAL DE SILV A,
Minister of Finance, Planning, Law and Order,
Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity,
Engineering Services, Health, Indigenous Medicine
and Local Government of the Southern Province Provincial Council, Galle
This 24th day of August, 2012,
At the Ministry of Finance, Planning, Law and Order,
Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity,
Engineering Services, Health, Indigenous Medicine
and Local Government of the Southern Province Provincial Council,
Galle.
Rules :
01. These regulations are referred to as the “Regulations pertaining to the transport services transporting school
children No. 02/2012 of the Southern Province Provincial Council and the regulations will be effective as from
15th September 2012.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
02. As from 15th September 2012 no service transporting school children should engage in such transport without
a regular service permit for the transportation of school children or the registration, within the Southern
Province either upon separate fares or fees charged on a hiring basis. Further the said permit shall be obtained
if school children are transported from the Southern Province to any other Provincial area or to the Southern
Provincial area from any other Provincial area.
03. The permit is issued in the name of the lawful owner of the vehicle.
04. The Authority has powers to issue, renew or to reject such application for a permit.
04.1 The authority shall take into consideration the following matters in using the said discretion.
(a) The connected passenger demand and to what extent have those requirements of transport fulfilled
so as to carry on a transport service to transport school children in the relevant road.
(b) If the requirement for a transport service to transport school children in the relevant road has been
fulfilled, whether it is appropriate to issue a new permit to that road.
(c) The schools to which the services could be provided within the relevant periods of time, under the
transport services transporting school children, (When it is not so to make provisions with regard
to those matters is a matter for the Authority)
(d) Whether the applicant is competent to maintain a transport service to transport school children.
(e) Whether the school service would create an increase in the road congestion in the town.
(f) Could the provision of services be done in a qualitative manner and lawfully or whether it has
already been done so.
(g) To what extent could this be useful for the roads where the bus services are not operating.
05. In obtaining, renewing, transferring or amending a permit all the applications shall be submitted within one
month, using the prescribed form (schedule 01), by the holder of the permit and if it is an organized body by the
authorized officer thereof. Together with the applications the documents mentioned in schedule 1(A) and the
receipt for the fee paid shall be submitted.
06. Until such time a National Policy for Transport Charges for transporting school children is implemented the
Authority may prepare a chart of charges pertaining to the Southern Province.
07. In issuing permits for the transport services transporting school children for the year 2012 and  2013 permits
will be issued to all the vehicles presently transporting students. At the present stage the operators should
support in the following manner, the fact that they are presently carrying on transport services transporting
school children.
07.1 By a letter of recommendation from an organization of operators recognized by the Authority
07.2 If it is not a party of any organization the recommendation letter of the passenger students travelling in
the vehicle used for transport services of school children certified by the Principal of the school and by
an affidavit.
07.3 In addition by a report from which confirmation is made after an investigation made through the officers
of the Authority, by the Authority simultaneously with the item 7.2 in instances where such is required.
08. The permit shall be in accordance with schedule 2 hereof.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
14A
09. The permit Label (Windscreen Label) shall be in accordance with schedule 3 hereof.
10. The charges prescribed by the Authority shall be in accordance with schedule 4 hereof
11. All applications submitted to make a permit operative, such application shall be submitted within a period not
less than one month before the date which the applicant expect it to be operative.
12. A permit includes the following terms as conditions.
12.1 A permit issued to a person cannot be assigned to another person on his own will. Such assignment is
null and void. If such instance is revealed such permit shall be cancelled. However the Authority may
take action to regulate the ownership of the permit in instances where it is not harmful to the policy of the
Authority and if the authority considers it as necessary for a qualitative Regular School Children
Transport Service.
12.2 Unless it is otherwise mentioned the permit is valid for 12 months from the date it  is issued
12.3 The permit holder and his staff should always maintain the service vehicle used for the transport of
school children in a fit mechanical condition and in a clean condition.
12.4 The responsibilities of the permit holder mentioned in these regulations and the responsibilities of the
driver and the staff of the school children transport service are treated as the terms and conditions
relevant to the permit.
12.5 The provisions enacted from time to time by the Authority for the qualitativeness of the service and
safety of the children shall be implemented.
13. The documents to be exhibited and kept in the service vehicle for the transport of the school children
13.1 The documents to be kept by the driver in the service vehicle transporting school children
(a) Original of the permit (schedule 2)
(b) Label (Schedule 3)
(c) Chart of hiring fares of the service vehicle transporting school children approved by the Authority.
(d) Those which should be taken under Motor Vehicle Transport Ordinance
(i) Revenue Licence
(ii) Insurance certificates
(iii) Driving Licence.
13.2 The things to be exhibited
(a) The photocopy of the permit label
(b) Note of charges showing prescribed charges chart
(c) The number of the permit issued by the Authority and the Registration number of the service
vehicle transporting school children
14. Responsibilities of the permit holders
14.1 For the promotion and to facilitate administration of transport service the permit holder shall obtain the
membership of an establishment of operators approved by the Authority
14.2 In case if the service vehicle transporting school children meets with an accident that matter should be
informed to the Authority through the establishment of operators within 07 days of its occurrence.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
14.3 If it is regarding a fatal accident the service vehicle transporting school children shall cease operation
until a fresh fitness certificate is obtained for the vehicle.
14.4 A driver of a service vehicle transporting school children who had caused a fatal accident should not be
engaged in service until it is certified that he is health wise fit (Fatal accident means an accident where a
person who was involved in the accident dies but to that same reason)
14.5 Shall compulsorily operate on every day the school is functioning
14.6 If any change occurs in the particulars submitted in making the application for the permit, the said
change or occurrence of such change shall be informed to the Authority within 14 days of such change.
15. The responsibilities of the driver and the staff  of the service vehicle transporting the school children.
15.1 The driver and the staff shall register themselves in the Authority and obtain an Identity card.
15.2 Shall drive the service vehicle transporting the school children in a manner in which the security, comfort
and reliability of all the children travelling in it are assured.
15.3 Shall not transport school children exceeding the approved number
15.4 At all times there shall be a first aid box in the vehicle and the driver and the staff should have obtained
a primary knowledge regarding first aid.
15.5 Particulars of children travelling in his vehicle should be available with the driver
15.6 Should drive only along the normal roadway and should not take short cuts
15.7 The taking up of children and the sending of children to the school shall be made at prescribed times
15.8 Shall be of good conduct and character and shall be courteous and disciplined towards all the school
children, government officers and other officers as well
15.9 Shall refrain from using intoxicating drinks or dangerous drugs while engaged in service or in using
dangerous drugs or intoxicating drinks during working hours.
15.10 Should not allow anybody to smoke, consuming liquor and dangerous drugs inside the service vehicle
transporting the school children.
15.11 Should not recklessly, negligently and dangerously drive the service vehicle transporting the school
children.
15.12 At any time when any officers of the Authority asks for the documents relating to the service vehicle
transporting school children for inspection, those documents should be produced.
15.13 The drivers and the staff of service vehicle transporting the school children shall participate the training
sessions conducted from time to time by the Authority
15.14 The service vehicle transporting the school children shall not stop in any manner which blocks the road
and shall be stopped at a suitable place which assures the protection of the children and shall be
accompanied up to the school and shall be taken back to their homes in the same manner.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
16A
15.15 The driver and the staff of the service vehicle transporting the school children shall wear a uniform
prescribed by the Authority, while in service.
15.16 The fetching of the children up to the service vehicle transporting the school children from the school
shall be performed by the matron employed for that purpose, the driver or by the staff.
15.17 For the safety of the children, every child should be looked at and instructions shall be given to the
children with regard to their safety, before the vehicle is driven.
15.18 The service vehicle transporting the school children should never be parked close to them obstructing
the school or the road and the vehicle shall be parked in a suitable place.
15.19 In an instance where the service vehicle transporting the school children is unable to transport the
vehicle up to the destination, due to unavoidable circumstances such as an accident or any mechanical
fault, action should be taken to assure the safety of the children who are transported by it. In such
circumstances all attempts shall be made to provide alternative transport facilities to those children and
the parents or the guardian of the children shall be made aware of it.
15.20. Notice given by the Authority to make the children aware of shall be exhibited in the vehicle transporting
the school children.
16. Responsibilities of the school children and parents/guardians
16.1 After the children arrives at the scheduled place in order to obtain their transport facilities the children
should enter and get down from the vehicle with care, as instructed by the driver of the vehicle transporting
children.
16.2 At all items the elder children should look after the younger children with regard to their protection.
16.3 The parents/guardians shall from time to tome be inquisitive of the service vehicle transporting the
school children, the driver the staff. If there is any malpractice or unfitness such matters shall be reported
to the Authority
16.4 In an instance where the vehicle transporting the school children is unable to transport the vehicle up to
the destination due to an unavoidable circumstances such as an accident or any mechanical fault, after
the driver or the staff informs at its prompt action shall be taken with regard to it.
16.5 If any child is unable to return home after school by the service vehicle transporting school children as
due to some reason, the parents or the guardian of the child shall inform about it to the driver of the
vehicle or the staff. It it is not possible to do so any other child who is obtaining the transporting
facilities from the said vehicle shall be informed about it.
17. Responsibilities relevant to the organizations of operators engaged  in service vehicles transporting the
school children.
17.1 Organizations or Operators of service vehicles transporting school children may be established for such
purpose as improving mutual friendship and to solve common problems which the service is facing. To
enroll membership for their organization and to carry on it on a legal basis is a responsibility of the
organization. They are free to make them wider organization by affiliating them with divisional, district
and provincial organizations, having created a stronger structure.
17.2  It is the responsibility of the said organizations to see that the operators of their organizations are acting
in compliance with the conditions of these regulations.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
17.3 The Organizations of Operators shall maintain a good relationship with the Authority by giving the
required assistance to the Authority having furnished the recommendation and reports asked for by the
Authority.
17.4 The provisions required to enforce the matters stipulated in these regulations shall be included in the
constitution of the organization.
17.5 The organization is duty bound to implement the provisions enacted by the Authority from time to time
with regard to the modes of action which the Authority seems to be appropriate for the regulation and
guidance of the services transporting school children.
18. Regulation pertaining to the parking place of vehicles of the school children transport service.
18.1 The required parking place of the School Children Transport Service may be established with the
agreement of the Local Authority, Police, Road Development Authority, Provincial Road Development
Authority and the Authority.
18.2 Subject to the condition enacted by the Authority the organizations of operators should control and
manage the said parking place.
18.3 If there are parking charges due to be paid to the local authority such charges shall be paid either by each
permit holder or by the said organization.
19. The permit holder is also liable for any breach of regulations by the driver of the staff of the school children
transport service.
20. When a permit holder who has obtained a permit under these regulations submit an application (schedule 1) for
the renewal of the permit, to the Authority and if the Authority is satisfied that,
(i) The said permit holder has acted in accordance with these regulations and or the provisions made under
it.
(ii) Has not been convicted for any offence under the rules made under it.
(iii) Has paid all the fees prescribed to be paid to the Authority and has performed all the relevant conditions.
The Authority may revalidate the period of validity by one year or less from the date on which its date of
validity expires.
21. Any person who breaches, defaults or neglect these regulations is guilty of an offence.
22. At an inspection made by the officers authorized by the Authority or by investigating groups, where party
who have breached these rules also have admitted that these regulations and the offences mentioned under
schedule 5 have been breached, the Authority has the powers to take the following action.
(i) To obtain a statement signed by them saying that the party would not repeat the breach of rules revealed
at the inspection or that the party would correct themselves.
(ii) To charge a surcharge of Rs. 400 for the offences mentioned in schedule 5.
(iii) To enforce both (i) and (ii) ways action.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
18A
(iv) If the permit holder does not agree to act under (i) and (ii) above the Authority has powers to act under
Section 23 or 42 of the Southern Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Authority Act, No. 02 of
1996 against the permit holder.
23. The authority has powers to issue instructions with regard to the procedure to be followed by the establishments
of operators and to issue instructions with regard to the returns to be maintained by them, the returns to be
furnished to the Authority and the notices to be exhibited in the vehicle.
24. The Authority will enact regulations effective with regard to the use of service vehicle transporting the school
children for special services for the requirements of the passengers, after the period of providing such services.
Schedule 01
A
PPLICATION FOR A REGULAR SCHOOL CHILDREN TRANSPORT SERVICE - PERMIT
Southern Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Authority
1. If a permit is available presently It's No :
2. Registered number of the Service Vehicle Transporting School Children
3. Parking place of the school children transport service :……………………………………………………
4. Route transporting school children :……………………………………………………
5. Register of names of schools and children (The list of names with the addresses of the children shall be
submitted as an annexure
01 . ……………………………………………………
02. . ……………………………………………………
03. . ……………………………………………………
6. Information about the applicant :
6.1 Name in full :……………………………………………………
6.2 Name with initials :……………………………………………………
6.3 Address :……………………………………………………
64. Telephone No. :……………………………………………………
6.5 National Identity Card No. :……………………………………………………
6.6 Date of birth :… …………………………………………………
6.7 If married name of the spouse and address  :……………………………………………………
6.8 Information regarding the residence of the applicant. :……………………………………………………

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
6.8.1 Province  :……………………………………………………
6.8.2 District :……………………………………………………
6.8.3 Divisional Secretariat Division :……………………………………………………
6.8.4 Police Division :……………………………………………………
6.8.5 Grama Niladhari Division :……………………………………………………
6.9 Is the applicant an employee in a Government Department/a Corporations/Board/Arm Force ?
(Yes/No.)
If “Yes” name of the relevant establishment
610 Particulars of Bank Accounts
6.10.1 Name of the Bank :……………………………………………………
6.10.2 Bank Branch :……………………………………………………
6.10.3 Account No. :……………………………………………………
7. Particulars of Insurance Cover
7.1 Name of the Insurance Company/Corporation :……………………………………………………
7.2 Category of the Insurance :……………………………………………………
7.3 Expiry Date :……………………………………………………
8. Particulars of revenue license
8.1 Expiry date of the revenue license :……………………………………………………
8.2 Name of the Divisional Secretarial Division :……………………………………………………
9. Information regarding the driver of the Service Vehicle Transporting School Children
(if the owner is functioning as the driver the filling from 9.1 to 9.7  is not required)
9.1 Name in full :……………………………………………………
9.2 Name with initials :……………………………………………………
9.3 Address :……………………………………………………
9.4 Telephone No. :……………………………………………………
9.5 National Identity Card No. :……………………………………………………
9.6 Date of Birth :……………………………………………………
9.7 If married name of the spouse and address :……………………………………………………

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
20A
9.8 Driving licence No. :……………………………………………………
9.9 Date of obtaining the Driving Licence :……………………………………………………
9.10 Date of expiry of the  driving licence :……………………………………………………
10. If registered in an association, particulars pertaining to it :
10.1 Name of Association :……………………………………………………
10.2 Membership No. :……………………………………………………
11. Have you participated in the School Children Transport Service drive training programme conducted by the
Southern Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Authority ? (Yes/No.)
11.1 It “yes” date and place :…………………
I certify that the information given by me in this application is   true and accurate. I know very well that if I make any breach
of the terms and conditions relevant to the permit issued to me or I do not comply with the instruction of the Authority I can
liable to be charged a surcharge for the permit/suspension/or cancellation or liable to be punished under the statute.
…………………………………
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :……………………………
*Delete what is not applicable.
Schedule 1 (A)
Documents to be submitted with the application
1. The registration certificate of the Transport Service Vehicle of School Children or the certificates issued by the
Commissioner of Motor Transport containing the particulars of registration and a photocopy of the said
certificate.
2. Insurance Certificate containing the full insurance of all the children travelling in the Service Vehicle Transporting
School Children.
3. Annual Revenue licence and its photocopy
4. Photocopy of the Driving licence
5. If it is for the renewal of a permit, the permit and the label already issued
6. Receipts for the payment of charges prescribed by the Authority
7. If the service vehicle transporting school children is a service vehicle transporting school children operated in
another Provincial Council area, the discharge letter issued by the said Provincial Council
8. The membership certificate issued by an organization of operators approved by the Authority, at instances
where it is required

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
Schedule 02
REGULAR   SCHOOL   CHILDREN  TRANSPORT    SERVICE    PERMIT
Issued as per Southern Provincial Road Passenger Transport Authority as per Statute No. 02 of 1996 and the Southern
Province Provincial Road Passenger Transport Authority  amended Statute No. 1 of 2009.


<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
22A
Schedule 03

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
Schedule 4
CHARGES   PRESCRIBED   BY   THE   AUTHORITY
The relevant charges stated in Column II of this schedule shall be the charge payable for a function of some subject
mentioned in column I of this schedule
Column I Column II
Functions The charges
to be paid
Rs. Cts.
01. Annual Service Charges 1,000  00
02. Annual charge for the renewal of a Regular School Children Transport Service Permit 100  00
03. The recovery of a 10% monthly surcharge based on the accrued arrears due to
non-extension on the due date of the Regular School Children
Transport Service Permit
04. For the issue of a duplicate in place of misplaced Regular School Children 250  00
Transport Service Permit
05. Regular School Children Transport Service Permit Label (duplicate) 250  00
06. For the issue of a Regular School Children Transport Service Permit 1,000  00
07. The charge for the regularizing of the ownership of a Regular School Children 5,000  00
Transport Service Permit
08. The conveyance of the permit to the person who is lawfully entitled to it, 1,000  00
in case of the death of the holder of the permit (Wife/Husband or children)
09. The conveyance of the permit to a person who is not a lawful successor
in case of the death of the holder of the permit (The system of charges
No. 7 is applicable and charges No. 01, 02 shall also be paid)
10. The deployment of another vehicle in place of the Service Vehicle 1,000  00
Transporting School Children, holding the relevant permit
Schedule 05
OFFENCES
01. Non exhibition of the Permit Label
02. Non exhibition of the Chart or Fares
03. Non exhibition of the approved number of children for the Service Vehicle Transporting School Children
04. Non exhibition of the licence number in the Service Vehicle Transporting School Children
05. The transportation of school children in the service vehicle transporting school children with the staff, without
wearing the uniform.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
24A
06. The transportation of the school children without a permit.
07. The running of the Service Vehicle Transporting School Children without keeping in their possession the
documents mentioned in the Motor Transport Ordinance.
08. Intentional activity with the intention of gaining the income of the other operators of Transport Services
transporting school children and in a manner obstructing the other operators.
09. Non adherence to the orders and instructions given by the officers of the Authority.
10. Non-charging of approved charges.
11. The use of equipment which emit loud noise.
12. Non-adherence to the rules and regulations issued by the government for the service vehicles transporting
school children.
13. Non operation on school days
14. Other offences
The Sinhalese version shall prevail in case of any inconsistency in these regulations among Sinhalese/Tamil/English versions.
Interpretation
01. The transport services transporting school children means the transportation of Pre School children, School
Children of Government or Private schools.
02. A service vehicles transporting school children means the vehicles with the seating capacity of over 5 and
those which daily transport Pre school children, school children of Government or Private schools between
their schools and  homes  on the basis of charges or on hiring basis.
03. The parking place of the service vehicles transporting school children means a place where the service
vehicles transporting school children are parked to provide transport facilities on the basis of charges or on
hiring basis.
04. An organization of operators mean a society or company registered under the Companies' Ordinance,
Co-operatives ordinance or a society/organization registered in the Divisonal Secretariat or any other recognized
Government institution or an organisation registered under the Southern Province  Provincial Road Passenger
Transport Authority.
10 - 603/2
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.