

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.02.2012
241
241
wxl 1"745 - 2012 fmnrjdß 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'02'10
No. 1,745 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 10, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 244
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 244
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th February, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd
February, 2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,744 of 03.02.2012 was not published.
The list of Jurors (Sinhala, Tamil and English Medium) in Galle and Balapitiya Judicial Zones - 2011 and Special Jurors (Sinhala
Medium only) in Galle and Balapitiya Judicial Zones – 2011 have been published in Part VI of this Gazette in  Sinhala, Tamil and
English Lnaguages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.02.2012
242
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.02.2012
243
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.02.2012
244
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 12th March, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
24th January, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Mihinthale Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Nuwaragampalatha Division General, District Secretariat,
and Births and Deaths of Kanadara Korale Anuradhapura.
West Division.
02–351
MINISTRY  OF  EXTERNAL  AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade
III of The Sri Lanka Foreign Service – 2012
AN Examination for the selection of suitable candidates for recruitment
to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service (hereinafter referred to
as the "Service") will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations on behalf of the Public Service Commission.
02. Scheme and Date of the Examination.– The examination will
be held in 02 parts :–
Part I – Written Examination :– Part I is a written examination
which will consist of question papers in the following
subjects and will be held in Colombo in May, 2012.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.02.2012
245
(i) General Paper ;
(ii) World Affairs I (Political) ;
(iii) World Affairs II (Economic) ;
(iv) Essay ;
(v) Precis ;
(vi) Aptitude and General Knowledge (Multiple Choice
Questions).
Part II – Viva-voce :
Only candidates who have sat for all six papers of the written
examination, have obtained minimum marks of 40% for
each subject and the aggregate marks at or above the cut off
point to be determined by the Secretary/External Affairs,
which will be not less than 300 marks, shall be called for
the viva voce, provided however the number of candidates
to be called shall not exceed five times the number of
vacancies to be filled. The viva voce will carry 100 marks.
Under no circumstances, shall the minimum aggregate cut-
off marks be lowered.
03. Conditions of Service :
(a) The candidates who are selected on the results of this
examination will be appointed to Grade III of the Sri
Lanka Foreign Service in terms of the general conditions
governing appointments in the Public Service and the
terms and conditions set out in the Sri Lanka Foreign
Service Minute 2001, subject to any amendments that
may have been made or will be made hereafter to that
Minute.
(b) The post is permanent and pensionable.
04. Salary Structure (Monthly).– The applicable Salary code for
this post is SL-1-2006 of the Public Administration Circular No.
6/2006. The applicable Salary Scale is as follows :
Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
(i) The Foreign Service Officers of Grade III are required to
pass Three Efficiency Bar Examinations before reaching
the following monthly salary points :–
* First Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point
of Rs. 24,870.
* Second Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary
point of Rs. 27,450.
* Third Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point
of Rs. 31,965.
(ii) In terms of the Public Administration Circular 20/2001,
officers are required to pass the 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination within 3 years of the appointment and 2nd
Efficiency Bar Examination within 06 years of the
appointment.
(iii) In terms of the Public Administration Circular 7/2007,
officers who are recruited to the public service should
gain proficiency in the official language/s, other than the
language he/she was recruited to the service within 05
years of the appointment.
05. Health and Character. – The candidate must satisfy the
Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs that he/she is of sound health
and that he/she has an excellent moral character. He/she should be
physically fit for service in any part of the world. Selected candidates
will be called upon to undergo a special medical examination.
06. Eligibility.– A candidate must –
(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) have obtained a degree from,
(i) a recognized University in Sri Lanka ; or
(ii) a foreign University recognized by the University
Grants Commission of Sri Lanka (UGC).
Documentary proof to this effect issued by the UGC
should be submitted by the candidate at the time of
viva voce.
(c) have attained the age of 22 years and have not attained the
age of 32 years on the closing date of applications. In case
of a candidate who is already in the Public Service, such a
candidate must not have attained the age of 40 years on
the closing date of applications and should possess a
satisfactory record of service.
Notes : (i) For the purpose of clause 6(c) a candidate in
the Public Service means (as defined in
Chapter I of the Establishments Code) any
officer who has been confirmed in the Public
Service Central Government Service and the
Provincial Public Service by the closing date
of application.
Notes : (ii) A candidate in the Public Service will not be
eligible to sit this examination unless he/she
has had a satisfactory record of service during
the 05 years immediately preceding the
closing date of application or if the period of
service is less than 05 years during the total
period of service with the Government.
Notes : (iii) A member of the Public Service will be
considered to have a satisfactory record of
service only if he/she has earned on the due
date, all increments within the 05 years
immediately preceding the closing date of
application or if the period of service is less
than 05 years during the total period of his/
her service in the respective institution and
has not suffered any punishment whatsoever
(except a warning) in respect of any offences
committed during the period as mentioned
above.
Notes : (iv) Applicants in the Public Service should send
their applications through their respective
Heads of Departments/Institutions.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.02.2012
246
07. Fees for the examination .– The fee for the examination is
Rs. 1,000.
This fee should be paid before the closing date of applications at
the nearest District Secretariat or Divisional Secretariat and credited
to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13. The receipt issued for the payment
should be attached to the application (Keeping a photocopy of the
receipt will be useful.)
Note.– A candidate who withdraws himself/herself or is absent
from the examination for any reason whatsoever or having
sat for the examination is found to be ineligible, shall not
be entitled to a refund of the whole or portion of the
examination fee.
08. Method of Application :–
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be on a sheet of
paper 8.5" x 11.6" (A-4 size) using both sides of the paper.
Column 1 - 7 should be prepared in the first page and the
other columns in the 2nd and 3rd pages. The form should
be filled in by the candidate's own hand writing.
The applications which are not according to the specimen
application form and the applications which are not duly
completed will be rejected without any notification.
Keeping a photocopy of the application will be useful.
The applications should be forwarded according to the
specimen application form and otherwise they will be
rejected. When preparing the application name of the
Examination in the heading of the application should be in
English for Sinhalese and Tamil applications.
(b) The application should be in the language medium in which
the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) The completed application for the examination must be
sent by registered post to the "Commissioner-General of
Examinations. Department of Examinations (Organization
and Foreign Examination Branch), Pelawatte,
Battaramulla", so as to reach him on or before 09th March,
2012. The top left-hand corner of the envelope containing
the application should bear clearly the words "Open
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of
the Sri Lanka Foreign Service – 2012" and English letter
"S" should be clearly indicated within a cage (2cm x 2cm)
on the top of the left side of the envelope. No application
received after this date will be accepted.
(d) Any application which is not complete in every respect is
liable to be rejected. No claim that an application has been
lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
(e) Applications will not be acknowledged. A notice will be
pubilshed in the newspapers as soon as Admission Cards
are issued. Applicants are advised to be on the look out for
such a notice.
(f) If admission cards are not received even after 2-3 days of
the paper notice, the applicant should inform the
Department of Examinations as specified in the notice. It
is more effective to send the certified copies of the
application, cash receipt and the registered post receipt
along with a fax number to fax the admission card if you
are living outside Colombo.
09. Admissions to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to those applicants who are eligible.
A candidate presenting himself/herself for the
examination must produce his/her attested admission
card to the supervisor of the examination center. A
candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card
will not be permitted to sit the Examination.
Candidates will be subject to rules and regulations
on examinations procedures imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
A candidate, in case of violation of such law, shall be
subject to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the
examination hall assigned to him/her. Every candidate
should surrender to the supervisor of the hall, the
admission card relevant to the hall, on the first day of
his/her presenting himself/herself for the examination
at the hall. A set of rules to be observed by all
candidates is published in this Gazette.
Note.– Issuance of admission card to a candidate does
not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite
qualifications in the Gazette Notification.
10. Identification of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject he/she offers. For this purpose any
of the following documents will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If candidate is found
to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled, at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by the candidate are found to be false within his/her
knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact,
he/she will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
12. Language of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(b) A candidate can sit the examination in one of the three
languages mentioned above. However, the candidate must
sit all the question papers in one language of his/her choice.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.02.2012
247
Please note that the medium in which the candidate applied
for the examination cannot be changed.
13. Method of Testing :
(a) Part I - Written Examination : This will consist of following
six (06) question papers :
Subject Subject Duration Marks
No.
01 General Paper 3 hours 100
02 World Affairs I 3 hours 100
03 World Affairs II 3 hours 100
04 Essay 3 hours 100
05 Précis 1 hour 100
06 Aptitude and 1 hour and 40 minutes 100
General Knowledge
Syllabus for Written Examination :
(i) General Paper - This question paper is designed to test
the candidate's knowledge of the political, social, cultural
and economic environment of Sri Lanka, matters of current
national and international interest as well as scientific and
technological developments.
(ii) World Affairs I - This paper will consist of questions on
current global political developments, the United Nations
and other International/Intergovernmental Organizations,
conflict situations and development of various national
and international movements, in order to ascertain the
candidate's ability to analyze global trends for peace,
security and development and their impact on Sri Lanka.
(iii) World Affairs II - This paper will consist of questions on
recent trends in trade and economic development including
the role played by International/Intergovernmental
Organizations, the impact of regional economic groupings,
issues such as environment and sustainable development
and their relevance to Sri Lanka.
(iv) Essay - An essay to be written on one or more specified
subjects. These subjects will not be related to any subject
field of study but will be designed to test the candidate's
general knowledge and intelligence and his/her general
ability both in powers of thinking and expression. The
essay will be judged by the degree of thoughtfulness and
originality in its treatment of the subject as well as by its
language, style and presentation. It must be clearly and
legibly written.
Note.– The attention of candidates is drawn to the
importance of relevance and legibility. Credit will
be given to careful examination of the subject to the
degree of analytical thinking, the quality of writing
and ability to express oneself concisely and clearly.
(v) Précis – This paper is designed to test the candidate's
ability to grasp the meaning of a given passage and to
express it effectively and concisely.
(vi) Aptitude and General Knoweldge – This question paper
will be in two parts, comprising the following sections,
each in the form of multiple choice questions.
* Intelligence Quotient (IQ) – To assess the powers of
logical reasoning and analytical ability of the candidate.
* General Knowledge and Current Affairs – To test the
candidate's knowledge of current developments in
the political, economic and Socio-cultural Fields, both
local and international.
14. Viva V oce.– The candidates will be interviewed on matters of
general interest. The objective of the interview is to assess his/her
suitability for the service for which he/she is entering. The board will
attach particular importance to his/her intelligence and mental
alertness, his/her strength of character and his/her potential qualities
of leadership. A candidate's proficiency in other languages, higher
educational qualifications and computer skills etc. will also be assessed
at the interview. The making scheme of the structured interview is as
follows :
Heads available for awards National Maximum
of marks at the interview marks marks
01. Educational qualifications 30
(a) PhD 30
(b) Master's Degree 25
(c) Postgraduate Diploma 20
(d) Degree with 1st class 15
(e) Degree with 2nd class 08
02. Proficiency of English 15
(a) English Special Degree 15
(b) English as a subject in the Degree 10
(c) Degree in English Medium 10
(d) Diploma from a recognized 08
university. Technical College or
qualifications such as TOEFL,
TESL, EDEXCEL etc. (duration
more than one year)
(
e) English subject in G .C.E. (A/L)
exam (local or London) 06
Distinction 05
Credit 05
(f) Proficiency in Spoken English
03. Computer skills 15
(a) Degree from a recognized university 15
(b) Diploma from a recognized 10
university, Technical College etc.
(Duration more than 06 month)
(c) Certificate Course (Duration more 05
than 06 months) (If the IT Degree is
the basic qualification, marks may not
be granted for it degree under this
stream)

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.02.2012
248
04. Proficiency of Official Language and 10
link languages in G . C. E. (O/L) Standard
of above 05 marks for each language
(maximum 2 language)
05. Personality, presentation and special
aptitudes 15
15. Method of selection for appointment. – The selection for
appointment will be made on the total aggregate of marks obtained at
the written examination and the viva-voce taken together. The final
selection for appointment will be made by the Public Service
Commission.
16. Any matter not provided for in this Gazette Notification will
be dealt with as determined by the Public Service Commission Public
Service Commission reserves the right to fill these vacancies, wholly
or partly or not to fill any vacancy.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
K
ARUNA TILLAKE AMUNUGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs.
Ministry of External Affairs,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
10th February, 2012.
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA
FOREIGN SERVICE – 2012
(For office use only)
Medium of examination :
Please write the appropriate No. in the cage
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
01. (i) ( a) Last name with initials (in English block capitals) :
––––––––.
(Example : SUMANASIRI, B. A.)
(b) Last name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
(ii) (a) Names denoted by initials (in English block capitals) :
–––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Private (In English block capitals) :–––––––––.
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
(ii) Official :–––––––––.
Heads available for awards Nat ional Maximum
of marks at the interview marks marks
(iii) Telephone Nos. : Official :–––––––––.
Residence :–––––––––.
03. Sex :–––––––––.
Please write appropriate No. in the cage
(Male - 0, Female - 1)
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. (i) Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
(ii) Age on the closing date of application :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
06. Nationality :
Please write appropriate No. in the cage
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4,
Others - 5)
07. Whether married or single :
Please write appropriate No. in the cage
(Single - 1, Married - 2)
08. State the year/years in which you have sat for the examination
for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Foreign Service :
(i) –––––––––––––
(ii) –––––––––––––
(iii) –––––––––––––
09. Are you a graduate holding a post in the Public Service. If so,
state the name of the post :–––––––––.
10. Details of the University Degree (Please read paragraph 7(i) and
7(ii) of the notification carefully to see whether you are qualified
in this respect) :
(i) Name of the University :–––––––––.
(ii) Degree :–––––––––.
(iii) Date of award :–––––––––.
(iv) General/Special :–––––––––.
(v) Subjects :–––––––––.
(vi) Class :–––––––––.
11. If you have any other academic/professional qualifications
(postgraduate degree/diploma, certificates in foreign langauges
etc.) Please give details below :–––––––––.
12. I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given in this form is true and that I have affixed the
receipt No. ............... dated ............... being payment of the
Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing
the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my
candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'02'10
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.02.2012
249
found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this
examination.
Please paste the payment receipt here
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
13. (Only for candidates already in the Public Service and the
Provincial Public Service)
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT/INSTITUTION
I have ascertained that during 5 years/.......... years preceding
........... 2010. Mr./Mrs./Miss. .................... has (a) earned all his/her
increments. ( b) not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment (excluding warning).
I certify that the particulars given in the application are correct
and he/she has paid the relevant examination fees and attached the
cash receipt herein.
This officer if selected could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and
Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
02–322
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.