

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
871
871
wxl 1"560 _ 2008 cQ,s 25 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'07'25
No. 1,560– FRIDAY, JULY 25, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 874
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 879
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st August, 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 18th July, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
872
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
873
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
:
B 3 – B 079909

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
874
Posts - Vacant
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Ministry of Agricultural Development and Agrarian
Service
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF ECONOMIST
ASSISTANT, GRADE III
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
post of Economist Assistant Grade III in the Department of
Agriculture.
02. The age of candidates should not be less than  18 years or
more than 45 years as at the closing date of applications. Maximum
age limit will not be applicable to those who are already in the
Public or Provincial Public Service.
03. The monthly salary scale attached to the post under the
salary code Mn 6-2006- A of P.A. circular No. 6/2006 ((IV) is
Rs.17,680-10x320-11x365-15x450 - Rs. 31,645.
04. The post is permanent and pensionalbe. Contributions
should be made to Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme/
Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
05. As per the implementation of official language policy under
provisions of the P.A. Circular No. 07/2007 (i), the appointees to
the post are required to acquire proficiency in second official language
within 05 years from the date of appointment.
06. Educational Qualifications :
A special class Degree in Economics/Statistics or Mathematics
obtained from a recognized Government University (All candidates
should have fulfilled the all qualifications stipulated in this
notifications as at the closing date of applications.)
07. Method of Application :
(i) The applications should be prepared only on A-4 (21cm
x 29 cm) size paper using both sides containing para 1 to
8 in the first page of the paper.
(ii) Photostat copies of the certificates that prove the
qualifications should be attached to the application.
(iii) Duly completed applications should be sent under
registered post to reach Director General of Agriculture,
Department of Agriculture, P. O. Box. 01, Peradeniya”
on or before 31st July, 2008. The Words “Application
for the Post of Economist Assistant” should be marked
on the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the
application.
(iv) incomplete applications and applications received after
the closing date will be rejected without prior notice, and
no complaint that an application has been lost or delayed
in the post will be considered.
(v) Those who are already in the Public or Provincial Public
Service should froward the applications through heads of
their respective Institutions.
08. Method of Recruitment: – Suitable candidates will be selected
among the candidates who have satisfied basic qualifications through
a structured interview.
Dr. C. K
UDAGAMAGE,
Director General of Agriculture.
04th of July, 2008,
Department of Agriculture,
P . O. Box. 01,
Peradeniya.
(For office use only)
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF ECONOMIST ASSISTANT
GRADE III IN THE DEP ARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
01. Name with Initials : (in English capital letters) :—————
Eg : SILV A, A. B.
02. Full Name : (in Sinhala/Tamil) : ————————
03. National Identity Card Number  :
04. Permanent Address : (in Sinhala ) :———————
Permanent Address : (in English Capital letters):————
05. Gender ; Female - 1  Male - 0
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
06. Date of Birth :
Year: Month: Date:
07. Age as at the closing date of applications ;
Years:       Months:     Days:
08. Marital Status :   Married - 1 Unmarried - 2
(indicate the relevant number in the cage).
09 Educational Qualifications :
(i) Degree :————————.
(ii) University :————————.
(iii) Subjects :————————.
(iv) Effective Dates of the Degree :———————.
10. Declaration of the applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application  are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particular
contain here in is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
875
disqualified if detected before selection or to be dismissed without
any compensation, if detected after appointment.
————————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—————.
11.  C ertificate of Head of Department/Institution
 ( Applicable only to those who have already in Public or
Provincial Public Service).
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs.Miss. . . . . . . . . . . . has served in
this Ministry/Department/Office/ Provincial Council as a . . . . . . .
. . . . . . .from. . . . . .  and inform that he/she could be/could not be
released from his/her present post, if selected for the above post.
———————
Signature of Head of Department or
Authorized Officer.
Date :—————.
Designation :———————.
Address :————————.
(Please prove by the official seal).
07-604
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Ministry of Agricultural Development and Agrarian
Service
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF SEED TECHNICIAN
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka those
who have fulfilled  the following Qualifications for the  recruitment
to Posts of Seed Technician in the Department of Agriculture.
02.  The age of candidates should not be less than  18 years or
more than 45 years as at the closing date of applications. Maximum
age limit will not be applicable to those who are already in the
Public or Provincial Public Service.
03. The post carries the salary scale of Rs. 12,920 - 120x10-
140x11-210x10-290x10- Rs. 20,660 under salary Code MN 1 -
2006 of the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 (iv).
04. The post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
should be made to Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme/
Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
05. As per the implementation of official language policy under
provisions of the P.A. Circular No. 07/2007 (i), the appointees to
the post are required to acquire proficiency in second official language
within 05 years from the date of appointment.
06. the candidates should have fulfilled the following Basic
Educational and Professional Qualifications :-
6.1 Educational Qualifications :
A pass in G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 (six) subjects
including language or Literature, mathematics, at not more
than two sittings, (a pass in a minimum of 05 subjects at
one sittings).
6.2 Professional and other Qualifications :
Certificate of Practical Agriculture;
or
Two year Diploma Certificate in Agriculture awarded by
Schools of Agriculture at Kundasale, Angunakolapelessa,
Pelwehera, Bibila, Labuduwa, Wariyapola, Vavuniya,
Anuradhapura and Karapincha;
or
Diploma Certificate in Agriculture awarded by Hardi
Technical institute;
or
Diploma Certificate in Agriculture awarded by Acquinas
College;
or
A two year Diploma Certificate in Agriculture awarded
by an institution accepted by the Government.
N.B.- All candidates should satisfy the requirements stipulated in
this notifications as at the closing date of applications.
07. Method of Application :
(a) The applications should be prepared only on A-4 (21cm
x 29 cm) size paper using both sides containing para 1 to
8 in the first page of the paper.
(b) Duly completed applications should be sent under
registered post to reach Director General of Agriculture,
Department of Agriculture, P. O. Box. 01, Peradeniya on
or before 31st July, 2008. The words “Application for
the Post of Seed Technician” should be marked on the
top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the
application.
(c) Copies of the documents in support of the qualifications
should be attached to the application.
(d) Applications which are not complete in every respect or
delayed will be rejected without notice, and no complaint
that an applications has been lost or delay in the post
will be considered.
(e) Those who are already in the Public Service should
forward their applications through Heads of the
respective Institutions.
08. Method of Recruitment  .— Suitable candidates will be
selected from the applicants who have satisfied the basic
qualifications by a structured interview.
Dr. C. K
UDAGAMAGE,
Director General of Agriculture.
04th of July, 2008,
Department of Agriculture,
P. O. Box. 01,
Peradeniya.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
876
(b)  G.C.E (A/L)
Year and Month : ——————
Index Number : ——————
Medium: ——————
    Subject Grades
1. ——————— —————
2. ——————— —————
3. ——————— —————
4. ——————— —————
06. Professional Qualifications :
Name of the Diploma and Index No. Year
Name of the Institution Passed
07. Declaration of the applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application  are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
particulars contain here in is found to be false or incorrect, I am
liable to be disqualified  before selection or to be dismissed without
any compensation, if such detection is made after appointment.
————————
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—————
11.  Certificate of Head of Department :
I hereby certify that  the particulars trainload above by the
officer were examined and found to be correct and he/she can/cannot
be  released from his/her present post, if selected for the above
post.
———————,
Signature and Designation of Head of Department
or Institution.
Date :—————
Full Name of Attestor :———————
Designation :—————
Address ;————————
(Please prove by the official seal).
07-605
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF SEED
TECHNICIAN IN THE DEP ARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
01. Name  :
1.1 Name with Initials :
(in English capital letters) Eg : SILV A, A. B.—————
1.2 Full Name :———————
 (in Sinhala/Tamil) : .——————————
1.3 National Identity Card Number  :
02. Permanent Address :
(in English Capital letters) .———————
03. Gender ; Female - 1  Male - 0
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.1 Date of Birth :
Y ear Month      Date
3.2 Age as at the closing date of applications ;
Years Months   Days
04. Marital Status : Married - 1 Unmarried - 2
(indicate the relevant number in the cage).
05. Educational Qualifications :(with the medium)
(a) G.C.E. (O/L)
First Sitting Second Sitting
Name of the Examination : ————— —————
Year and Month : ————— —————
Index Number : ————— —————
Medium: ————— —————
First Sitting Second Sitting
Subject Grades Subjects Grades
1. ————— ——— ————— ———
2. ————— ——— ————— ———
3. ————— ——— ————— ———
4. ————— ——— ————— ———
5. ————— ——— ————— ———
6. ————— ——— ————— ———
7. ————— ——— ————— ———
8. ————— ——— ————— ———
9 ————— ——— ————— ———
(For office use only)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
877
DEPARTMENT  OF  ELECTIONS
Post of Receptionist
APPLICATIONS are called from eligible applicants for the above
mentioned Post in the Department of Elections. Applications
prepared on A4 size paper as per specimen appended to this notice
should be sent by registered post to reach the “Commissioner of
Elections. Department of Elections, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya”
on or before 25th of August, 2008. Applications received after the
closing date of applications not prepared as per specimen form or
incomplete applications will be rejected. The words “Post of
Receptionist” should be written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope in which the application is enclosed.
01. Designation :— Receptionist
02. Educational and other Qualifications.— G . C. E. (Ordinary
Level) in 6 subjects with four credits passes either in Sinhala Language
or literature, mathematics, Arithmetic or Commercial Artithmetic in
not more thatn two sittings or equivalent or higher qualifications.
(a) Ability to write and speak in the English language and the
Tamil Language will be an additional qualification.
(b) Has an excellent character and in good physical and mental
condition.
03. Professional Qualifications.—  Three years experience in the
related field in the Government sector or in a State Corporation
(should be substantiated by certificates)
04. Monthly Salary Scale.— Salary table MNI-2006A of Public
Administration Circular No. 6-2006(IV) is applicable.
Rs. 13120-10x145-11x170-10x240-10x320-Rs. 22,040
05. Age Limit.— The age should not be less than 18 years and not
more than 45 years on the last date for receipt of applications.
06. Service Conditions:
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and liable to
contribute to the Widows and Orphans Pension Fund.
(ii) Provisions in paragraphs 10-12 in Chapter II of the
Establishment Code are applicable.
(iii) Proficiency in the official language provided in P. A. Circular
No. 7/2007 of 28.05.2007 should be attained within 5
years from the date of appointment to the post.
07. Scheme of Recruitment.— The most suitable candidate from
among those who obtained highest marks at the interview to be held
will be selected.
08. Other rquirements.— Applicants serving in the Government/
Provincial Public Service should send their applications through the
Head of Department or head of the Institution.
DAY ANANDA DISSANAY AKA,
Commissioner of Elections.
Elections Department,
Sarana Mawatha,
Rajagiriya.
25th July, 2008.
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTIONS
A
PPLICATION OF RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF RECEPTIONIST
01. Name with initials:————————,
02. Full Name :———————,
03. Permanent Address:———————,
04. Postal Address :————————,
05. If serving in an organization, it’s name :——————,
Address :————————,
Designation:—————————,
06. National Identity Card No. :—————————,
07. Sex : (M/F)
08. Date of Birth :
Year: Month: Date:
Age as at 25.08.2008:
Years: Months: Days:
09. Civil Status:———————,
10. Educational Qualifications :
G .C.E.(O/L) G .C.E.(A/L)
Year Year
Subject Grade Sub ject Grade
————— ——— ————— ——
————— ——— ————— ——
————— ——— ————— ——
————— ——— ————— ——
————— ——— ————— ——
————— ——— ————— ——
————— ——— ————— ——
————— ——— ————— ——
————— ——— ————— ——
11. Other Qualifications:
(i) —————————
(ii) —————————
(iii) —————————
12. Experience in the relevant field:
Institution:———————.
Period : from:————— T o:—————
13. Applicant’s Certificate:
I ——————————— hereby state that the above
mentioned facts are true and correct.I am aware that if the above
mentioned facts are found to be false,I will disqualified from being
called for interview and that if the facts are found to be false after
being selected to the post, I am liable to be dismissed from the post
without any compensation.
——————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
878
14. Certificate of the Head of Department of Intitution of the
applicant in serving in the government sector or in the provincial
Public Service.
I certify that the applicant, Mr./Mrs/Miss. ——————— is
serving in the ————————Ministry/Department/Institute as
a ———————— on permanent/temporary/casual/Trainee basis
and that has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment
(except warnings) and that if selected he can be/cannot be released
from service.
——————,
Signature of Head of Department/Institution
(official Seal)
Date:—————,
Designation:——————.
Name of Ministry/Department/Institution:———————.
07-661
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Technical Education Development Project (2197-SRI (SF)
ADB funded Technical Education Development Project is being
implemented under the Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training
with the objective of supporting the Government’s strategy to
close the gap between supply of & demand for technical education.
(i) strengthening College of Technology (Co Ts) to offer
technician education ;
(ii) strengthening the Ministry of V ocational & Technical
Training (MV&TT) and relevant institutions to support a
market responsive Technical Education and V ocational
Training (TEVT) system; and
(iii) establishing the University of V ocational Technology
(Univotec), which will focus on Technical and Technological
education. The Project will build on the output of the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) - assisted Skills Development
Project (SDP), particularly the National V ocational
Qualifications (NVQ) framework.
The Project will strengthen MV & TT and relevant institutions
in order to facilitate, support and ensure quality, efficient, and
sustainable TEVT, focusing on NVQ levels 5-7. The Project will
help the Government establish Univotec, to address the shortage of
technologists and qualified instructors for TEVT, and provide an
alternative education and career pathway for student and TEVT
sector personnel, leading to a degree. The Project will, among other,
develop degree programs leading to a Bachelor of Technical
Education (B. Tech. Ed) and a Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech)
and upgrade the facilities and equipment of institutions comprising
Univotec offering these programs. Also upgrading nine existing
Technical College to Colleges of Technology, one in each province
will be done. The proposed Colleges of technology will directly
support the industry by providing facilities for trainees to acquire
NVQ level 5 & 6 in selected subject areas.
The Project is implemented over a period of 5 years from the
year 2006.
Applications are invited from suitably Qualified and experienced
candidates who are citizens of Sri Lanka to fill the following position
in the project Implementation Unit (PIU) located in Colombo.
PROJECT ENGINEER - 01 POST
Duties and Responsibilities :—
1. Design and implement improvements/renovation of
workshop and other facilities to conduct diploma level
training programs at provincial levels.
2. Prepare cost estimate and drawing for the improvements/
renovations involving civil construction activities.
3. Prepare Maintenance plan for each CoT at provincial
level.
4. Prepare a Master plane for infrastructure work for the
proposed University of V ocational Technology.
5. Prepare detail bills of quantities with the cost estimates
for the Univotech.
6.  Closely supervise implementation of the civil
construction activities of the Project and make necessary
recommendations for approval.
7. Facilities procurement part of the civil construction
activities.
8. Maintain close relationship with the Project Participatory
Institution, stake holder and other required parties.
9. Prepare reports as and when required by the donor
agencies, PPIs etc.
Qualification & Experience for this post .— Charted/Corporate
membership of recognized Professional Institution/post graduate
degree in the relevant field and minimum of 08 years of post
qualification experience in senior managerial level.
or
Class I Officer of a Government all island services or similar statues
in the relevant filed with minimum of 05 years experience in Class
1 level.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
879
Professional Competencies for this post:—
1. Ability to deliver technical services as required by the
project and to assist the Project Director.
2. Proven ability of handle project activities related to the
required area of specialization independently.
3. Ability to function effectively in a team environment
inspiring trust and co-operation of other team members.
4. Ability to analyze and resole implementation problems
resourcefully and consistently.
5. Computer Literacy.
6. High level proficiency in written and spoken English.
Age Limited  .— Applicants for this post should be below 57
years at the closing date of the applications.
Remuneration .— Negotiable, depending upon candidate’s
qualification and experience. (Based on the Management Service
Circular No. 33 of 05.04.2007)
General Conditions :
1. The employee’s and employer’s contribution of the
Employee’s Provident Fund (EPF) will be 8% and 12%
of the salary respectively while Employee’s contribution
to Employee’s Trust Fund (ETF) will be 3% of the salary.
2. The post will be on full time and contract basis initially
for a period of 01 year and will be renewed annually on
the basis of performance.
3. Experience in Foreign Funded Project will be an added
qualification.
Applicants with required qualifications will be short listed and
called for an interview.
Applications with the names and addresses of two non-related
referees an completed bio-data along with photocopies of certificate
should reach under registered cover to the following address on or
before 18th August, 2008. Please indicate the name of the post on
the top left hand corner of the envelop.
Secretary.
Ministry of V ocational and Technical Training,
“Nipunatha Piyasa”,
354/7, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.
04th July, 2008.
07-555
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class 2 Grade
II of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators Service - 2008
THE Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 2-II of Sri
Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service will be held in Colombo on
November 2008. The examination will be conducted in Sinhala,
Tamil and English medium & Permission will not be given to change
the Language Medium; applied.
The syllabus of this examination and other provisions have
been published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1070/13 and dated 11th
March 1999. This syllabus and other provisions are indicated below
for the convenience of the applicants.
The officers may appear for the prescribed subjects in the
Efficiency Bar examination in the same instance or in different
instances.
Syllabus :—
 Subject Subject Marks Time
No.
(01) General Management and Establishment 100 1 1/2
Work Regulation in the Establishment hours
 Code with special reference for Chapters
 i, ii, iii, iv, v, vii, viii, ix, xii, xiii, xiv, xxiv,
xxviii, xxx and xxxi
(02) Financial Regulations
With special reference for Chapters 100 1 1/2
 i, ii, v, viii, xii, xiii and xiv in Part I hours
of the Government Financial Regulations
(03) Education Law
Candidates’ knowledge expected relating 100 2
 to the following Ordinacnes and Acts hours
of Parliament
i. Education Act, No. 31 of 1939 and regulations imposed
thereunder
ii. Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions) Act No. 5 of 1960

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
880
(iii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Supplementary
Provisions) Act, No. 8 of 1961
(iv) Public Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968 amended by
Public Examinations (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1976
(v) Assisted Schools (Special Provisions) Act ,No. 65 of 1981
(vi) National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985
(vii) Colleges of Education Act, No. 30 of 1986
(viii) National Education Commission Act No. 19 of 1991
(ix) National Authority on Teacher Education Act, No. 32 of
1997
(x) Constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference for the
13th Amendment and Chapter 3 on Fundamental Rights.
(xi) Enactments made by Provincial Councils relating to
Education.
Candidates should obtain at least 40% marks for each subject
for passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
03. Language medium of the examination:—
(i) Candidates may answer the papers in Official Language
or in the National Language.
(ii) Candidates may answer the papers in the language medium
of the competitive examination they appeared for joining
the Public Service. Regarding those who joined Public
Service without appearing for a Competitive Examination
they may answer the papers in the language medium of
the examination they were qualified to join the Public
Service.
04. If it is revealed that any candidate had appeared for the
examination in a medium he/she is not entitled to answer his/her
candidature will be cancelled.
05. Application should be prepared in conformity to the
following specimen form. All of the Heads of Application should
be arranged for the first page and details relevant to that should be
inserted in own legible hand writing. Applications which
incompatible to the Specimen Applications, incomplete detailed
Applications will be rejected without acknowledgement and it will
be useful to keep a Photostat Copy of said Application. And further
mention that the Candidate should see about compatibility of the
application with the specimen application of Notice of Examination
and If it will not be so the Application will be rejected. When the
Applications are arranged the name of the Examination mentioned
in its Head should be in English in Sinhala Application in Addition
to Sinhala and  should be in English in Tamil Application in Addition
to Tamil.
06. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by the rules and
regulations imposed by him for conducting this examination.
07. Applications should be sent under registered post addressed
to Commissioner General of Examinations, Foreign Examinations
Branch, Department of  Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to
be reached on or before 29.08.2008. Any applications received
after this date will be rejected. The words “Efficiency Bar
Examination - Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service 2-II” should be
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
08. In the event of any candidate not receiving his admission
card at least 07 days before date of examination he should promptly
notify to that effect to the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla. (Telegraphic Address: Commissioner
General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examinations
Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
While informing the non receipt of the admission Card, following
information it is necessary to supply the following information)
After the Admission Cards are issued  a Newspaper  Advertisement
It will be published on that forthwith by Department of
Examinations. If the Admission Card was not received although 2/
3 days were passed from the day which Newspaper Advertisement
was published it should be informed on that to Department of
Examinations Sri Lanka in accordance with the Advertisement. It
will be useful to inform to Department of Examinations keeping
your Letter of request with certified photo copies of your
Application and the Receipt of the payment of money, registered
Receipt and a Fax Number if your are from a remote area.
(I) Name of Examination :———————.
(II) Candidate’s name in full :———————.
(III) Candidate’s address in full :———————.
(IV) Date of posting the application:——————.
(Registered number and Post Office)
Those who are residing close by may notify the
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of
Examinations (E-Block).
09. Any appeals forwarded by candidates who fail to fulfill the
requirements indicated at para. 8 above will not be considered.
10. It is the responsibility of the candidates to submit evidence
to prove their identity at the Examination hall and for this purpose
any one of the following documents will be valid;
(I) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of the
Department of Registration of Persons,
(II) A valid Passport.
11. It has been decided to charge examination fees on the following
basis from the candidates appearing for this examination.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
881
(a) No fees will be charged from candidates appearing for the
first time for the whole examination or for part of the
examination.
(b) Fee for the whole examination Rs. 150.00
For one subject Rs. 50.00
Candidates shoud pay the examination fee by revenue stamps
by duly placing their signature and cancelling  the stamps.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
01st July, 2008.
APPLICATION
E
FFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION IN CLASS 2 GRADE II OF SRI LANKA
TEACHER EDUCATORS’ SERVICE - 2008
Applications should be sent under registered post addressed to
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla through the Head of the the Institute.
(Name of the examination should be indicated on the top left
hand corner of envelope)
Language medium appearing
for  the examination
(Relevant Number to be written in the cage)
1. (a) Name with initials at end :————————,
(In English capital letters) Ex. :- Mr./Mrs./Miss.
SILV A, A. B.
(b) Names denoted by initials : ————————,
(In English capital letters)
2. Date of birth: Year: ————, Month:——,Date :———,
3. (i) Designation : ————————,
(ii)Name and address of NCOE/TC serving (Admission
Card will be sent to this address): ————————,
4. Private address (In English capital letters) : ——————,
5.  Please indicate clearly the subject number and subjects
appearing as indicated under -
(a) in para 3 of the Notice :
Subject No. Subject
1.
2.
3.
6. Whether you have appeared for this examination earlier
completely or partly and if so indicate the subjects, year appeared
and the medium :
Subject Year Medium
7. Examination fees paid :
Stamps to be affixed here
(Prescribed stamps to be affixed and cancelled by
applicant’s signature)
8. I hereby declare that the above details are true and correct and
that I am entitled to sit for this examination in the language medium
indicated in para. 03 of the Gazette Notification.
—————,
Signature of applicant.
Date: —————
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS
Forwarded,
I certify that this candidate is eligible to sit for this examination
and he/she is qualified to appear in the language medium indicated
under para. 03 of Gazette Notification 02. I also certify that the
candidate had duly cancelled the stamp/stamps.
———————,
Signature of President NCOE/
Manager T.C./Designation.
Date :—————
07-565
MINISTRY OF  ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
Forest Department
RECRUITMENT OF THE POSTS  OF RANGE FOREST
OFFICER IN TRAINING GRADE OF  THE  SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE – 2008
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka
who have the required qualifications for  the Posts of Range Forest
Officer in Training  Grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service in
the Forest Department.
Sinhala  -  2
Tamil  -  3
English  -  4

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
882
02. Salary Scale :
(i) Trainee Grade – MN : 1- 2006 A—  According to Public
Administration Circular 06/2006 (IV) – Rs. 13,120 – 145 x
1-Rs. 13,265.
(ii)  Class II B – MN : 3— 2006 A – According to Public
Administration Circular 07/2008 – Rs 15,005 – 180 x 4,
240 x 6 – Rs. 17,165.
03. Term of Employment and Conditions  of  Service :
(i) This  appointment is permanent. Contributions should  be
made to the Widows’ and Orphan’s Pension Fund.
(ii) This appointment will be on probation for  a period of
three years.
(iii) Appointment will  be made  into the trainee grade.
(iv) Selected candidates should  prepare to serve in any forest
area in any part  of the island. They should  also prepare to
serve during the day  time as well as in the night .
(v)  The  conditions of the recruitment and promotion of
officers in the  minute of the Sri Lanka Technological
Services and the conditions  of the Recruitment  and
Promotion Procedure  (amended) of Range Forest  Officers
are  applicable.
(vi) General conditions relating to the  Public  Service
appointments indicated  at the  beginning  of the para.
(11a) of  Part 1 of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic  of Sri Lanka will apply.
(vii) The Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
Medium.
04. Age Limit .— Not less than 18 years and not more than  45
years of age on the date of closing of applications. The upper age
limit is not applicable to those who are already in Public Service
and Provincial Council Service.
05. Educational and other Qualifications  .— All applicants
should  prove satisfactorily the following requirements :
(i) Should  have passed the G . C. E.  (Advanced Level)
Examination in one  sitting with  three  (03) subjects
including Biology or Agriculture;
or
Should have  passed the G. C. E. (Advanced Level)
Examination (old  Syllabus) in one sitting with  three  (03)
subjects including two  of the  following subjects : Botany,
Agriculture Zoology ;
and
(ii) Should  have  passed  the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in not  more  than two sittings with  six  (06)
subjects with four  (04) credit passes including language or
Literature, Mathematics or Arithmetic, and  Science.
(iii) Minimum height of 5ft. 2 inches and 32 inches chest for
male applicants  5ft.  minimum height for female applicants.
(iv) Should have good moral character.
06. Method of Recruitment :
(i) Selection will be made  after an interview which  will be
held to those candidates who  have scored highest marks at
the  written examination and those  who qualified the items
in para. 05. (No marks will be given  at the  interview).
(ii) Applicants recruited as per para. 06. (i) will be placed in
the training grade. Upon the successful  completion  of two
year  theory and practical  training  course at the Sri Lanka
Forestry Institute they  will be absorbed into  the class
II – B of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
(iii)  Applicants  those who  have  successfully completed  two
year  Diploma in Agriculture in any  accredited government
institution in Sri Lanka  will be  appointed  into the Class
11 – B of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.
(iv) It  is compulsory for all the applicants recruited  under
para 6. (iii) to complete a two year  training  course
successfully at the Sri Lanka Forestry Institute.
07. Written Examination  .— The applicants whould  sit  for the
competitive  examination in the  language you have obtained  your
Academic Qualifications. Written examination will  consist  of   two
question papers:
(i) Intelligence Test (Aptitude) One (01) hour – 100 marks
The paper which  is designed to assess the numerical ability,
logical ability, analytical competence and  decision  making
ability of the  applicants will consist of multiple choice
questions and short answer  questions.
(ii) Technical Test – Two (02) hours  - 100 marks
The  paper will  consist of structured and semi – structured
questions to test the knowledge of the applicants in the
following subjects:
(a) Sri Lanka – It’s geographical location and climate
(b) Ministry  of Environment and  Natural Resources
and Forest Department – Their policies and functions
(c) Management and Utilization of Forest Resources
(d)  Forestry and Environment – Fauna and Flora of Sri
Lanka
(e) Relationship between Forest  and Community
(f) Basic Botany and Geography
(g) General Knowledge.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
883
08. Mode  of Applications and other  Information :
(i) The Specimen form given  at the end  of the notification
should  be prepared by applicant using  a paper of 21  x 29
cm. (A4 size) should  be sent by registered post  addressed
to the Commissioner  General of Examinations,
Organizational and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examination, P . O. Box  1503, Colombo on
or before 31st August, 2008.  (It  should  not be sent  to
any individual address or any other address), “Recruitment
for  the Post  of Range Forest Officer 2008” should  be
written in the top  left  hand  corner of the  envelope.
(ii) The incomplete or late applications will be  rejected
without any notice.
(iii) Loss of applications during the post  will not be considered.
(iv) Signature of the applicans should  be attested by one of
the following   officials - Principal of a Government School
or Justice of Peace or Commissioned Officer in the Army,
Navy, Air  Force or Police  Service or Permanent Staff
Officer of National or  Provincial Government Service  or
the Grama Niladhari Officer of the  Grama  Niladhari
Division where the applicant resides.
(v) The applications  not in conformity to the conditions
mentioned in this  notification   will be  rejected.
(vi) Applicants who are already in National  or Provincial
Government Service should  forward their  applications
through the respective Heads  of their  institutions  and an
endorsement is necessary  to indicate that  the  Head  of
the  institution agrees to release the applicant if selected
for  the post.
(vii) The  receipt  of application will not  be acknowledged.
Examination  Fees :
(i) Examination fee is Rs. 300. This  amount should  be paid
at the nearest Divisional Secretariat  and shall be credited
in favour of  the “General Deposit”  of “Conservator
General of Forests”. The  receipt should  be pasted to the
application where  indicated (It  is advisable for the
applicant to keep a photo copy of the receipt).
(ii) Examination fee is not  to refundable  and would  not be
transferable as  a fee for any other  examination.
10. Candidate should  produce all or any  one of the  following
documents any time  when  called:
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Educational Certificates ;
(iii) Grama  Niladhari Certificate obtained recently should
certified by Divisional Secretary;
(iv) Two character certificates ;
(v) Any other relevant certificates.
Please Note .— Documents or copies of the  documents should
not  to attached to the  application.
11. (i)  The examination will be held  only in following cities:
1. Colombo 2. Kandy 3. Matara
4. Kurunegala   5. Ratnapura  6. Anuradhapura
7. Badulla 8. Ampara 9. Batticaloa
10.  Trincomalee 11.  Vavuniya 12.  Jaffna
13. Killinochchi 14. Mulativu
(ii) If not adequate number  of applications are received for any
of the above  centres the applicants will be referred to the
nearest city.
(iii) An admission card  indicating  the date, time and venue of
the  examination will be  posted 07 days before the
examination date. Travelling expenses or any other expenses
will not  be paid  for this purpose to the applicants. It
should  be noted  that, issuing of an admission card should
not be considered as  a qualification  for the recruitment of
the  post .
12. Identify of the  Candidate .— The applicant should prove his/
her  identify  to the  satisfaction of the examiners. Anyone of  the
following  documents will be  accepted for  this purpose:
(i) A National Identity  Card  issued by the  Commissioner of
the Department  of Registration of Persons;
(ii) A valid  passport .
13. Penalty for  Providing False  Information .—If  the applicant
found  to be not qualified, his/her  application for the  examination
will be  cancelled any time. Any information furnished by an applicant
to his/her  knowledge is found  to be incorrect or if he/she has
purposely changed an important fact, he/she  will be  liable for
dismissal from the Government Service after  his/her  selection.
14. Particulars not  metioned in this  notification will be  attended
according to the  decision of Conservator General of Forests.
Conservator General of Forests.
Forest Department,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
18th  July 2008.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
884
APPLICA TION FOR  THE POST  OF TRAINEE RANGE FOREST  OFFICER IN
THE FOREST DEPARTMENT – 2008
City No.:
City : ————————.
(Please see para. II of the
  notification)
01. (i)  Name of the  applicant with  initials :——————.
(in English)
(ii) Full Name : ———————.
 (in English)
02.  Permanent Address:————————.   (in English)
03. Sex :
Male  - 0 Female – 1
(Please write the relevant Number in the box)
04. Medium through which  the applicant  intended to be
appeared for the  examination :
Sinhala  - S,  Tamil - T,  English - E
 (Please write the relevant Letter in the box)
05. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :
By decent – 1   By registration – 2
(Please write the relevant Number in the box)
06. Date of Birth  :———————.
Age on 31.08.2008 :
Years: ———.  Months:  ———.  Days :  ———.
07. National  Identity Card  No.:
08. Physical Requirements :   Height:  ................. ft. ............ inch
Chest: .......................... inch
 (Not relevant for female applicants)
09. Educational Qualifications :
(I) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
1st Attempt         2nd  Attempt
Year:  ................ Index No: Year:  ................ Index No:
Subjects   Grade   Subjects       Grade
(II)  G. C. E. (Advanced Level) :
Year  :.................... Index No: .........................
Subjects Grade
10. Additional  Educational  Qualifications:———————.
11. Professional /Other Qualifications :———————.
12.  (i)  Have you ever  been convicted for any offence by a
 Court of Law ? Yes / No :———————.
(ii)  If  yes, give  details :———————.
13. If you are  already employed,  give  details :
Post:————— Institute:—————
Date of 1st Appointment:——————
Salary :——————.
14. Names  and addresses  of two  non related referees
 (with  telephone Nos:) :
(i)  ——————————.
(ii)  —————————.
15. Declaration by the  applicant :
I hereby declare that  the  information furnished in this  application
are true and accurate. I am aware that if any information herein is
found  to be  false or inaccurate before my selection, I will be liable
for disqualification and dismissal without compensation, if found
to be so  subsequent to the  appointment.
———————,
Signature of the  Applicant.
Date : —————.
16. Attestment of the Applicant’ s signature :
I hereby certify that  Mr./Ms. ......................................... is known
to me personally and he/she  placed his/her  signature in this
application in my presence on ........................ 2008.
——————,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name of the  Attestor :—————.
Designation :—————.
Address :—————.
Date :—————.
17. This  part  should be completed  by the Head  of the
Institution if the  applicant is an employee  of the National or
Provincial Government  Service.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
885
I hereby certify that  applicant Mr./Ms. .........................................
who holds the post of ..................................... is a permanent /
temporary employee of  this  Ministry/Department and  particulars
furnished by him/her  are true and correct. If  he/she  is selected for
this post  he/she could  be released /Could  bot be released from the
present post.
———————,
Head of the Department or
Authorized Officer.
Name :—————.
Designation :—————.(Frank should  be placed)
Date :—————.
(Please delete the unnecessary words)
Please Note .— No other  document other  than receipt of the
exam fees  should  be  attached to the  application .
18. (i) Name  of the Divisional  Secretariat, to which  the
     examination  fees  was  paid ________.
(ii) Receipt  No. and Date ________.
Please fix the receipt  firmly in the  Box.
07-641
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  AND  AGRARIAN  SERVICE
Department of Export Agriculture
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF EXTENSION OFFICER AND RESEARCH
ASSISTANT OF CLASS II ‘’B” OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF EXPORT
AGRICULTURE - 2008
APPLICATIONS are invited from the eligible Citizens of Sri Lanka for the purpose of filling the above vacancies in the Sri Lank a
Technological Service of the Department of Export Agriculture.
02. The age of applications should not be less than 18 years or more than 45 years. The maximum age limit will not be applicable
to those who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service.
03. The monthly salary scale attached to the posts as per Public Administration Circular No. 07/2008 is Rs. 15,005-4x180-
6x240-11x320-20x360-Rs.27,885.
04. The post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions will have to be made to the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme/
widowers’ and Orphans’ pension scheme.
05. The applicants are required to fulfill the following Basic Educational Qualifications and Professional Qualifications as at the
Closing Date of Applications.
Posts Educational Qualifications Professional Qualifications
G . C. E. (O/L) G . C. E. (A/L)
Extension Pass in G. C. E. (O/L) Pass in G. C. E. (A/L) Two year Agriculture Diploma
Officer Examination in 06 (six) Examination in 03 Certificate offered by Schools
and subjects with credit (three) Science of Agriculture of the Department
Research passes in Sinhala/Tamil subjects with two of Agriculture.
Assistant or Literature, Mathematics subjects out of
Science and any other Subject Biology, Agriculture, or
at not more than Two sittings Chemistry and Physics
at one sitting.
National Agriuculture Diploma
Certificate offered by the Hardi
Technical Institution.
     or

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
886
National Technical Diploma
Certificate in Agriculture Offered
by Technical Colleges of Ministry
of Skills Development, V ocational
and Technical Development.
or
Technical Diploma
(Agriculture) Certificate
offered by Open
University of Sri Lanka.
or
A two-year Agriculture
Diploma Certificate
Offered by any other
Government approved
Institution.
or
Other qualifications
accepted by Sri Lanka
Technological Services
Board as equivalent to above
qualifications.
06. Method of application.-
(a) Applications should be prepared in accordance with the specimen form appeared in the end of this notification, using
both sides of the paper so as Para No. 01 to 04 of the application in the first page. (Should be used A4 papers.)
(b) Applications should be prepared in the language in which the candidate intends to sit for this examination.
(c) Duly completed applications should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, Palawatte, Battaramulla
on or before 25.08.2008.
(d) The top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application should be clearly indicated the name of post/posts
of which the candidate wishes to apply.
 (e) The examination fee for one post is Rs. 300/- and if apply for both posts the fee is Rs. 450/-. This fee should be paid
at the nearest Divisional Secretariat before the closing date of applications, with instructions that it should be
credited to Revenue head 4000-20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The original cash receipt
obtained from the Divisional Secretariat on payment of the examination fee should be affixed on the space provided
in the application. It would be useful to keep a Photostat copy of the receipt with you.
(g) Applications, which are not completed in every respect or delayed will be rejected without prior notice, and the
Department will not bear responsibility for loss or delay of application in the post.
(h) The signature of the candidate should be attested by a Principal of Government School or Justice of Peace or an
Attorney at Law or an Officer of Public Service who holds a staff grade post.
(i) Those who are already in the Public Service should forward their applications through heads of the respective
institutions.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
887
07. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Admission Card :
The Commissioner, General of Examination will issue admission cards to candidates whose applications have been
received. A candidate must produce his/her admission card with attested signature to the supervisor of the examination
hall assigned to him/her. A candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be permitted to sit for the
examination.
(b) The examination is Scheduled to be held in November 2008. Any candidate who has not received his/her admission card
at least 07 days before the day of examination should immediately inform the Commissioner, General of Examinations,
P. O. Box. 1503, Palawatte, Battaramulla, furnishing the following information.
i. Name of the Examination :——————.
ii. Full name of the candidate:——————.
iii. Address:——————.
iv. Date of posting the application, registered Number and the post Office:——————.
v. Number of the cash receipt, Date and the Divisional Secretariat to which the examination fee was
paid:——————.
(c) Travelling expenses or any other allowance will not be paid to candidates in respect of sit for this examination.
(d) Identification of the Candidate :
A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of
each subject he offers. For this purpose flowing documents will be accepted.
i. National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
ii. A valid passport.
Candidates who faid to submit any of the above documents to prove their identity will not be permitted to sit for the examinati on.
(e)  Syllabus :
i. Intelligence Test - (Subject No. 01) (Time 01 hour. Total marks - 100)
This paper consists of objective questions so as to make an assessment of the candidate’s power of logical reasoning,
and analysis and ability to draw sound inferences.
ii. Technological question paper (extension Officer)-(Subject No. 02)
(Time 02 hours. Total marks 100)
iii. T echnological question papter (Research Assistant)- (Subject No. 03)
(Time 02 hours. Total marks 100)
Post Syllabus of the Technological Question Paper
Extension Officer Technological Question Paper
1. General agriculture and fundamentals.
2. Crop prodution and fundamentals, agronomical factors.
3. Soil and fertilizers, plant nutrition, environmental impacts.
4. Crop propagation methods.
5. Causal agents of pests and diseases, symptoms and damages.
6. Agrucultural policy, past, present and future potentials.
7. Botanical characteristics, climatic factors, effect of fertilizer
and plant nutrition, pests and diseases and post harvest
technologies of export agricultural crops such as pepper,
cinnamon, cofee, cocoa, cardamom, clove, mutmeg, betel and
arecanut.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
888
8. Marketing of export agricultural crop products and export
potentials.
9. Organic farming.
10. Farm management, production of plants and planting materials
and nursery management.
11. Agricultural extension methods and extension methodology.
Research assistant Technological Question Paper
(a) Fundamentals of Agriculture
1. Climatic zones of Sri Lanka and its impact on crop production.
2. Soils, soil convervation, plant nutrition, water conservation.
3.  Identification, classification, and control of pests.
4. Plant propagation, nursery management, and tissue culture.
5. Agriculture and Environment.
6. Plantation, field crop production, mixed cropping, agro foresty.
7. Post harvest technology.
8. Definition of export agricultural crops, propagation, field
establishment and maintenance, control of pests and diseases
and processing of export agricultural crops.
9. Farm management and planning
(a) Contribution to agricultural development from the related
Government and Private institutions of Sri Lanka.
(b) Identification of laboratory equipments.
 Utility and basic principles.
1. Identification of laboratory glass wear and their utility
and cleaning.
2. Safe handling and storage of chemicals.
(f) The examination will be held in the languages of Sinhala, Tamil
and English and a candidate must sit all the papers of the
examination in the same language.
(g) The competitive examination for recruitment to the posts will be
held only in Colombo.
08. Conditions of Employment.-
i. The selected candidates are bound to serve in any part of the island.
ii. The Districts and Stations in which vacancies existing are given below.
(a) Research Assistant
i. Gampaha District - Walpita Research Centre
ii. Matara District - Palolpitiya Cardamom Research Centre
iii. Matale District - Matale Research Centre
(b) Extension Officer
Extension Officer Divisions in the following Districts
i. Monaragala
ii. Badulla
iii. Hambantota
iv. Matara
v. Galle
vi. Ratnapura
vii. Nuwara-Eliya

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
889
09. Method of Recruitment.-
The candidates who have secured 40% or more marks for each paper prescribed for the competitive examination will be called
for an interview. No  marks will be awarded at the interview and recruitment will be made on order of merit of the aggregate marks scored
at the competitive examination, among the candidates who have proved their qualifications at the interview..
10. Any matter not provided for in this notification will be decided by the “appointing Authority”. all candidates are bound to
act, in conformity with the General Rules of examinations stipulated in the Gazette notification.
11. The Commissioner General of Examinations will allow to sit for this competitive examination to all applications who have
paid required examination fee and sent applications on or before the date specified in the notifcation on predetermination that  the
application have only been sent by those who have fulfilled the requirements of this Gazette notification.
W. D. L. GUNARATHNE,
Director of Export Agriculture (Act.).
(for Office use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO VACANCIES IN THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF EXPORT AGRICULTURE
Medium of Examination Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
The post applied for :
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Extension Officer -   1
Research Assistant -   2
Both Posts -   3
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :———————————.
(in English capital letters) Eg. SILV A  A. B.
1.2 Full Name :———————————.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Permanent Address :———————————.
(in English capital letters)
2.1 Address to which the admission should be sent :———————————.
(in English capital letters)
03. Gender : Female 1 Male 0
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.1 Date of Birth : Y ear Month Date
3.2 Age as at the closing date of applications:
Years: Months: Days:

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
890
04. Marital Status :
Married - 2 Unmarried - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. National Identity Card Number:
06. Educational Qualifications :  (with the medium)
(a) G. C. E. (O/L)
First Sitting Second Sitting
Name of the Examination .................... ...........................
Year and Month .................... ...........................
Index Number .................... ...........................
Medium .................... ...........................
First Sitting Second Sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grades
11
22
33
44
55
66
77
88
(b) G . C. E. (A/L)
Year and Month: ........................
Index Number: ........................
Medium: ........................
Subjects Grades
1
2
3
4
(c) Professional Qualifications :
Name of the Diploma & Year Index No. Subjects passed Pass
Name of the Institution passed

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –25.07.2008
891
07. (a)
Number of the cash receipt
Date of Payment
The Divisional Secretariat to which the
Examination fee was paid
Please affix the cash receipte so as to be not detachable
08. Declaration of the Applicant:
I do hereby certify that the particulares furnished by me in this application true and accurate. I am also aware that , if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed without any
compensation if such detection is made after appointment.
I agrre to abide by the conditions of this examination.
———————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date:——————.
09. Attestation of the Signature of the applicant:
I hereby certify that the Mr./Mrs./Miss. —————————is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature
before me on ——————.
—————,
Signature of Attestor.
Date:——————.
Full Name of Attester:——————————.
Designation ::——————————.
Address :——————————.
(Please prove by the official seal)
Director General of Examinations,
I hereby certify that the above candidate has qualified/not qualified to sit for this examination.
—————————,
Signature and Designation of Head of Department/ Institution.
Date :——————.
07-635
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.