

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2437$24 - 2025 uehs ui 21 jeks nodod - 2025'05'21
No. 2437/24  -  wedNesday,   may  21,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a-  G 44381 - 05 (05/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SPORTS LA w, No. 25 Of 1973
By virtue of the powers vested in the minister of sports under section 41, read together with section 31 of the sports Law, 
No. 25 of 1973, the following Regulations are hereby made:
   Recognizing the importance of sports for the promotion of national unity, the enhancement of physical and mental 
well-being, and the elevation of sri Lanka’s prestige at the international level; acknowledging the necessity to uphold the 
highest standards of integrity, transparency, equality, and accountability in sports governance and administration; Affirming 
the commitment of the new Government to ensuring a system free from corruption, discrimination, and malpractice, 
guaranteeing that athletes, officials, administrators, and all stakeholders participate in a clean environment; Reinforcing 
the public aspiration to foster a new culture of sportsmanship characterized by excellence, fairness, and discipline; These 
new Regulations are enacted to implement the new National Policy on sports Governance, ensuring that all stakeholders 
in sports are provided with equal opportunities free from bias, and that sports governance operates with transparency, 
responsibility, and accountability.
 Sunil Kumara Gamage (M.P.),
 Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports.
at Colombo,
On 14th day of may, 2025.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
2a
Regulations
 1. These regulations shall be cited as the “National sports associations Regulations No. 01 of 2025.”
Pa RT  I
REGISTRATION Of  NATIONAL SPORTS ASSOCIATIONS UNDER SECTION 29 Of  THE SPORTS  
ACT,  No.  25  OF  1973  (AS  AMENDED FROM TIME TO  TIME)   
BY  THE  NATIONAL  STATE COUNCIL
 
 2. (1) Every application for the registration of a National Sports Association in respect of any sport specified in Schedule 
II hereto shall:
 [i] Be submitted by the director General of sports for the approval of the minister to whom the subject of 
sports is assigned;
 [ii] Conform to the format marked “Form a” set out in schedule I hereto;
 [iii] Be clearly signed and sealed with the official seal by the President and the Secretary of the said National 
sports association or Federation; and
 [iv] Be accompanied by the following documents:
 (a) A certified copy of the Constitution of the National Sports Association or Federation containing the 
particulars specified in Part II hereof;
 (b) details for communication purposes, including the name of the National sports association or 
Federation, the registered office address, telephone number, and email address;
 (c) Personal details for communication purposes, including the names, addresses, telephone numbers, 
and email addresses of the current members of the executive Committee of the said National sports 
association or Federation;
 (d) A certified copy of the minutes of the Annual General Meeting at which the above-mentioned 
executive Committee members were appointed, including a duly prepared signature list in conformity 
with “Form E” as set out in Schedule I, certified with the signatures and official seals of the President 
and secretary.;
 (e) A certified copy, signed and sealed by the President and the Secretary, of the audited financial 
statements of the National Sports Association or Federation for the preceding financial year (for 
the purposes of this provision, the financial year shall be deemed to commence on January 1st and 
conclude on december 31st of the same year).
 (f) The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of institutions, sports clubs, and other 
organizations affiliated with the Association, together with the names, addresses, telephone numbers, 
and email addresses of the members of the committees of such affiliated institutions, sports clubs, and 
other organizations;
 (g) a  formal report needs to be presented by the President and the secretary of the said National sports 
Association or Federation, which confirms the Association or Federation is actively operating in at 
least three (03) administrative districts at the time of applying for registration by providing certification 
of the relevant District officers. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
3a
  (2) The duly completed application shall be submitted to the director General of sports. The director General 
of Sports shall issue a written acknowledgment to the applicant(s) confirming the receipt of the application. 
Furthermore, the director General of sports shall communicate the decision regarding the application to the 
applicant(s) within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of the application.
  (3) Prior to the registration of any National sports association or Federation, the director General of sports may 
request any additional information directly related to the particular sport.
  (4) Upon verifying that the application has been submitted in conformity with the provisions of the sports act and 
these Regulations, if satisfied, the Director General of Sports shall forward the application, together with his 
recommendation, to the secretary of the ministry for further submission to the minister for approval.
  (5) Upon obtaining the approval of the minister, the director General of sports shall inform the applicant(s) to pay a 
non-refundable registration fee of Thirty Thousand sri Lankan Rupees (Rs. 30,000/-) to the National sports Fund.
  (6) Upon payment of the registration fee, the director General of sports shall register the National sports association 
or Federation subject to a probationary period not exceeding two (02) years and issue a Certificate of Registration 
conforming to the format marked “Form B” set out in schedule I hereto.
  (7) at the conclusion of the probationary period, and/or during the said period, the President and the secretary of the 
National Sports Association or Federation shall submit a formal report — certified by the relevant District Sports 
Officers — confirming that the Association or Federation is actively operating in at least seven (07) administrative 
districts.
  (8) If the registration of the National sports association or Federation is neither canceled nor suspended during or at 
the conclusion of the probationary period, the Certificate of Registration shall constitute conclusive evidence, for 
all purposes, that the said association or Federation has been permanently registered.
  (9) The director General of sports shall maintain a Register of all National sports associations registered with 
the department of sports development. such Register shall conform to the format marked “Form C” set out in 
schedule One hereto.
P aRT  II
CONSTITUTION  Of   THE  NATIONAL  SPORTS  ASSOCIATION/fEDERATION
. 
 3. (1) Notwithstanding any other law, every National sports association/Federation shall have a constitution 
incorporating the particulars expressly set out herein, which must be approved by the director General of sports.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any National sports association/Federation already registered for a particular 
sport as of the effective date of these Regulations shall submit an amended constitution incorporating the 
particulars set out herein for the approval of the director General of sports within ninety (90) days from the date 
of these Regulations coming into operation.
  (2) any subsequent amendment to such constitution, even after receiving the approval of the director General of 
sports, must likewise be submitted for and obtain the approval of the director General of sports. every National 
sports association/Federation shall recognize only the constitution duly approved by the director General of 
Sports as its official constitution.
  (3) every National sports association/Federation shall prepare or amend its constitution in conformity with the 
rules, regulations, procedures, codes, or directives of its affiliated International Association/Federation. All 
such amendments shall be presented for approval at a special General meeting and must be consistent with the 
Constitution, the sports act as amended from time to time, and all regulations made thereunder. 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
4A
 4.  (1)  Every National Sports Association/Federation shall be governed by an Executive Committee consisting of a 
maximum of seventeen (17) members, including the following office bearers. The number of members of the 
Executive Committee must always be an odd number. 
 (i)  President and Vice Presidents:
 (a)  The number of Vice Presidents shall not exceed three (3).
 (b)  One (1) Vice President shall, by virtue of office, be nominated by the Sri Lanka Schools Sports 
Association/Federation relating to the respective sport. The qualifications specified under Section 
4(2) hereof shall not apply to such Vice President nominated by the Schools Sports Association/
Federation.
 (ii)  Secretary and Assistant Secretary
 (iii) Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer
  (iv)  Executive Committee Members:
  (a)  Where the sport concerned is one in which women participate, at least two (2) Executive Committee 
members must be women.
  (2) Only individuals who possess the following qualifications shall be eligible for election to the positions set out in 
Section 4(1) (i), (ii), and (iv):
 (i) Have represented Sri Lanka in an international competition which has the approval of the Ministry of 
Sports; and/or
 (ii) Have secured first (1st), second (2nd), or third (3rd) place in an individual event at National Senior and/or 
Junior Championships organized by the relevant National Association or at the National Sports Festival; 
and/or Have been a member of a team which won the championship, runners-up, or second runners-up 
positions in team events; and/or
 (iii) Have secured first (1st), second (2nd), or third (3rd) place in an individual event, or have been a member of 
a team winning championship, runners-up, or second runners-up positions, at any national level sports event 
or championship approved by the relevant National Association, including but not limited to competitions: 
the Defence Services Sports, the Public Services Sports, the Sri Lanka University Sports, Public Schools 
Sports, Provincial and District competitions under the National Sports Festival, National Schools or All-
Island Schools competitions, Provincial and District competitions under the National Schools or All-Island 
Schools Games, National Youth Games, Mahaweli Games.
 (iv) Has at least fifteen years of professional experience as a Chartered Accountant and/or has at least fifteen 
years of professional experience as an Attorney - at - Law and/or has at least fifteen years of professional 
experience as a Doctor with full membership of the Sri Lanka Medical Council and/or has at least fifteen 
years of professional experience as a Chartered Engineer and/or has at least fifteen years of professional 
experience with a Bachelor’s Degree in Sports and/or Sports Science from a recognized State University in 
Sri Lanka.
  (3) Only individuals who satisfy the following qualifications shall be eligible for election to the positions referred to 
in Section 4(1)(iii):
 (i)  Be a Chartered Accountant; or
 (ii) Be a member of Chartered Institute of Management Accountants recognized in Sri Lanka; or
 (iii) Be a member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants; or
 (iv) Hold a Bachelor’s Degree in Management and/or Commerce from a recognized State University in Sri 
Lanka.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
5a
  (4) In respect of any National Sports Association/Federation, where a sufficient number of candidates possessing 
the qualifications specified under subsection (3) above have not been nominated, only in such instance shall 
candidates possessing the following qualifications also be deemed eligible for election:
 (i) A person who holds a certificate in Banking and Finance issued by the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, 
or a member of association of accounting Technicians of sri Lanka , or a person holding a recognized 
certificate in the fields of banking, financial management, or accountancy, with a minimum of three (03) 
years of experience in the field of accounting in a licensed commercial bank or a licensed specialized bank 
recognized under the provisions of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988, or in a licensed finance company under 
the provisions of the Finance Business act, No. 42 of 2011, or in a registered leasing institution under the 
provisions of the Finance Leasing act, No. 56 of 2000.
 (ii) A person who has at least three (03) years of experience working in the field of accounting in any 
ministry, department, Corporation, statutory Board, Local Governments, state-Owned Company, or other 
Government Institution.
 (iii) A person holding a intermediate level certificate issued by the Chartered Institute of Management 
accountants sri Lanka, the Institute of Chartered accountants of sri Lanka, or the association of Chartered 
Certified Accountants.
  (5) The validity of any qualification referred to in this section shall be confirmed solely through duly issued 
professional certificates, sports certificates, or service certificates evidencing relevant professional experience; 
and qualifications shall not be determined based on letters of recommendation and/or character certificates or any 
other such documents.
. 
 5. (1) Every officer of the Executive Committee of a National Sports Association or Federation shall be appointed at an 
election held once every two years at an annual General meeting.
 
 (2) (i) Any individual who has held office as President and/or Secretary and/or Treasurer of any National 
association or Federation, whether continuously or intermittently, for a total period of eight (08) years 
or more, shall be ineligible to be elected or re-elected to the office of President and/or Secretary and/or 
Treasurer of any National association or Federation. Provided, however, that such individual shall not 
be disqualified from being elected or appointed as a member of the Executive Committee.
  (ii) subject to the limitation referred to in subparagraph (i) above, the maximum period during which any 
individual may hold membership of the executive Committee of a National association or Federation, 
including any period during which such individual has served as President and/or secretary and/or 
Treasurer, whether continuously or intermittently, shall be twelve (12) years.
  (iii) any individual who has served the maximum term of twelve (12) years, in accordance with the limits 
prescribed in sub paragraphs (2) (i) and (ii), on the executive Committee of any National sports 
association or Federation shall be ineligible for election or appointment to the executive Committee of 
that association or Federation or any other National sports association or Federation.
  (iv) In calculating the maximum twelve-year period referred to in subparagraphs (i), (ii), and (iii) above, any 
period during which an individual has held office in an interim committee of any National Association 
or Federation shall also be taken into account.
  (3) Any vacancy arising in the offices of President, Secretary, or Treasurer of a National Sports Association or 
Federation prior to the expiration of the respective term of office may be filled at a Special General Meeting. Any 
other vacancies may be filled at a meeting of the Executive Committee, subject to approval at the next Annual 
General meeting.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
6a
 6. A person shall be deemed disqualified from being elected to, holding, or being nominated for any office or position in a 
National sports association or Federation, or from serving as a member of a committee thereof, or from being elected 
to, holding, or being nominated for any office or position in any affiliated club or organization of a National Sports 
association or Federation, if such person falls within any of the following categories:
  (1) Has been adjudged to be of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction;
  (2) Has been adjudged an insolvent or bankrupt by a court of competent jurisdiction;
  (3) Has been convicted by a court of law or by any other competent authority of an offence relating to money 
laundering, bribery, corruption or any related offence, or for any offense as specified under the Penal Code, and 
sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not less than six (06) months;
  (4) Has been found guilty of any offence under the amended Sports Law or under the amended prevention of offences 
relating to sports act;
  (5) Has been found guilty, by a duly appointed committee constituted by the minister in charge of sports, the ministry 
of Sports, or the Department of Sports Development, of any financial misconduct, improper activity, corruption, 
disciplinary offence, or other similar misconduct;
  (6) Has, within the period of two (02) years preceding the submission of nomination, served as a paid professional 
journalist affiliated to any media organization, or functioned as an owner, beneficial owner, co-owner, or principal 
shareholder of any such print or electronic media institution;
 (7) (i) If he/she is a current player of the national pool or national team in the relevant sport; or
  (ii) If he/she is the spouse, parent or sibling of a current player of the national pool or national team in the 
relevant sport; or
  (iii) If he/she is the agent or manager of a current player of the national pool or national team in the relevant 
sport;
  (8) Has, within the period of two (02) years preceding the submission of nomination, served as a professional  
coach , technical officer, or referee of the relevant National Association or Federation;
  (9) Is not a citizen of sri Lanka or has ceased to be a citizen of sri Lanka;
  (10) Has, within the period of four (04) years preceding the submission of nomination, engaged in the sale, promotion, 
or supply of sports equipment, sportswear, or other sport-related items or nutritional supplements to the National 
association or Federation or to any other institution, or rendered any services related to sport for commercial 
purposes;
  (11) Has, either directly or indirectly, been engaged in or associated with the business of betting, gambling, or 
wagering, or is employed by or otherwise involved in any institution engaged in such business relating to a sport 
specified in the Schedule II of this Gazette Notification, or is a relative (spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son, 
daughter, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law) of a person so engaged;
  (12) Has been subjected to a ban, suspension, or disqualification imposed by the decision-making authority of the 
relevant International Federation or association to which the National sports association or Federation is 
affiliated;
  (13) Has been subjected to any penalty, ban, suspension, or disqualification imposed by the Anti-Doping or Anti-
Corruption disciplinary Committe of such National sports association or Federation, or by the sri Lanka anti-
doping agency, or by the w orld anti-doping agency, or by the anti-doping or anti-Corruption disciplinary 
Committee of the International sports association or Federation to which such National association or Federation 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
7a
is affiliated, in respect of any offence relating to the use of prohibited substances, corruption, betting, match-
fixing, spot-fixing, or misuse of insider information.
  (14) Has been directly or indirectly involved in human trafficking;
  (15) Has failed to return to Sri Lanka within the specified time frame after representing the country in an international 
sporting event with the approval or consent of the minister of sports;
  (16) Is a member of Parliament or has been elected or appointed as a member of a Provincial Council or any Local 
Goverment;
  (17) Is a member of the National sports association/Federation’s election Committee;
  (18) Has failed to submit, or has deliberately omitted to submit, the financial statements certified by the Executive 
Committee for audit within two months following the end of the specified financial year, and has been found 
guilty through an inquiry conducted by the minister in charge of sports, the ministry of sports, or the department 
of Sports Development, while holding office as the President, Secretary, Treasurer, cheque-signing officer, or any 
other responsible official of such National Sports Association/Federation;
  (19) Has been found guilty following an inquiry conducted by the authorized committee after the financial statements 
presented to the Auditor-General revealed improper handling, financial fraud, or any other misconduct;
  (20) Has, either directly or indirectly, established any association or connection involving any procurement related 
matters in relation to the National sports association/Federation.
  (21) Has been found guilty of match-fixing or any related offense in connection with a sporting event.
 7. additionally, the constitution of every national sports association/federation shall include provisions for the following:
  (1) The holding of elections for the appointment of executive committee officials in accordance with the constitution, 
in a free and fair manner.
  (2) V oting rights and representation of affiliated associations, sports clubs, and other organizations.
  (3) Appointment of officials at provincial or district level to coordinate activities of affiliated institutions and sports 
clubs in the relevant district, and submission of relevant reports to the national association.
  (4) Maintaining records of affiliated institutions and clubs under the national association conform to the format 
marked “Form d” set out in schedule I hereto.
  (5) Holding monthly meetings of the national association/federation committees, with at least one representative 
from the school sports association required to attend.
  (6) Sending written notice to affiliated associations, clubs, and organizations at least 14 days prior to the Annual 
General meeting (aGm), including:
      (i) The annual Report;
 (ii) A list of eligible affiliated institutions for voting ;
 (iii) A copy of the financial statements for the preceding financial year, as audited by the Auditor-General, or a 
copy of the financial statements for the preceding financial year, as audited by an auditing firm nominated 
by the auditor-General ;
 (iv) Copies of financial statements for the preceding financial year, certified by the President, Secretary, and 
Treasurer ;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
8a
  (7) Ensuring that affiliated institutions and clubs participate in a minimum number of competitions organized by the 
national association each year to retain voting rights; those failing to meet the requirement lose voting rights.
  (8) New members will not have voting rights at the annual General meeting in which they are admitted.
  (9) Former officials must hand over all documents, passwords, bank information, and electronic data to the newly 
elected committee within 7 days of appointment.
  (10) Procedures regarding appointment, removal, eligibility, composition, term, and responsibilities of the following 
committees:
 (i) election Committee
 (ii) decision-making Committee
 (iii) National selection Committee
 (iv) Categorization Committee
 (v) Grading Committee
 (vi) Technical Committee
 (vii) Finance Committee
 (viii) disciplinary Committee
  (11) Representatives nominated by affiliated institutions or clubs for voting purposes at the Annual General Meeting / 
Election must be notified to the national association/federation at least 7 days in advance.
  (12) If the annual General meeting of a national association/federation is adjourned due to lack of quorum, the 
reconvened meeting with the same agenda must be notified to all members in writing at least 14 days prior.
  (13) Affiliated associations, clubs, and other organizations must maintain proper financial records.
  (14) Failure by affiliated associations or clubs to hold their own Annual General Meeting, conduct elections, or 
maintain accounts will result in the loss of their right to attend and vote at the national annual General meeting.
  (15) any individual who is not a citizen of sri Lanka and has no background in sports shall not be nominated as a 
delegate or representative of the national association to international federations or Federations.
  (16) Procedures for the appointment, control, and management of coaches, referees, and judges by the national 
association.
  (17) A code of conduct must be established for players, members, coaches, referees, judges, and other officials, in line 
with the requirements of the respective international federation.
  (18) Responsibilities of affiliated institutions, sports clubs, and other organizations must be clearly defined.
  (19)  Compliance with the w orld anti-doping Code and the sri Lanka anti-doping Code is mandatory.
  (20) In the event of any contradiction between the rules of the international federation and sri Lankan law, sri Lankan 
law shall prevail.
  (21) National sports federations must contribute to the establishment of local sports clubs, district, and provincial 
associations across all Grama Niladhari Divisions to promote the sport and fulfill the fundamental human right of 
citizens to engage in sport of their choice.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
9a
NATIONAL  SELECTION  COMMITTEES  OF  NATIONAL  SPORTS  ASSOCIATIONS/FEDERATIONS
 8. (1) In addition to the provisions stated above, the matters outlined below shall apply with regard to the National 
selection Committees of National sports associations/Federations.
  (2) every National sports association/Federation must establish a National selection Committee, with the approval 
of the minister in charge of the subject of sports, for the purpose of selecting participants/competitors to represent 
sri Lanka at international competitions.
  (3) The National Selection Committee shall consist of five (05) members who have rendered a significant service to 
the relevant sport or have achieved excellence in that sport. If the sport includes female participation, at least one 
(01) of the five (05) members must be a woman.
  (4) In order to appoint the National selection Committee for a period of two (02) years, the respective National 
Sports Association/Federation shall inform all affiliated member institutions and call for nominations. Ten (10) 
most suitable individuals shall be selected by the executive Committee from among those nominated.
  (5) The National sports association/Federation shall submit the names of the ten (10) nominated individuals to 
the National Sports Selection Committee, which shall then select five (05) suitable individuals from among 
them. One (01) individual shall be nominated as the Chairperson. These names shall then be submitted for the 
recommendation of the Director General of Sports and thereafter to the Minister in charge of Sports for final 
approval.
  (6) The authority to make recommendations regarding the appointment of all National selection Committees of 
National sports associations/Federations shall lie with the National sports selection Committee.
  (7) The date, venue, relevant details, and selection criteria for selection trials conducted by National sports 
Associations/Federations must be notified to the athletes at least fourteen (14) days in advance. Copies of all 
such details shall be submitted in writing to the National sports selection Committee on the same day. Failure to 
submit this information may result in the National sports selection Committee invalidating the selection trials, 
especially if they are conducted based on the personal discretion of the association/federation president, secretary, 
or coaches.
  (8) The selection criteria for all National sports associations/Federations must be submitted to the National sports 
selection Committee at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the trials, and these criteria must also be published 
on their official website.
  (9) The National sports selection Committee has the authority to conduct inquiries and make recommendations 
regarding any appeals or complaints received at the conclusion of selection trials of National sports associations/
Federations.
  (10) The final results of all selection trials must be published on the official website of the relevant National Sports 
association/Federation along with all relevant details.
  (11) The relevant Project Officer of the Ministry of Sports assigned to the respective national sport must participate in 
all selection trials, and the National sports selection Committee must be duly informed.
  (12) The National sports selection Committee shall maintain and update a database of all athletes in national pools. 
National sports associations/Federations must submit to the National sports selection Committee all details 
regarding the skills and biographical data of athletes in their respective national pools. after naming the national 
pool, all additions or removals of athletes must be reported to the National sports selection Committee.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
10a
  (13) When recommending coaches, managers, assistant coaches, and support staff for international competitions, the 
National sports selection Committee must follow an appropriate procedure and approve the nominations based 
on the following criteria:
 (i) Contribution made to the field of sports to date
 (ii) Current performance in the field of sports
 (iii) Knowledge, understanding, and experience in the relevant sport
 (iv) skills demonstrated as an athlete or coach
 (v) Possession of a valid coaching license issued by the relevant sports association or the National Institute of 
sports science 
P aRT  III
DUTIES,  POwERS,  AND  RESPONSIBILITIES  Of   NATIONAL  SPORTS  ASSOCIATIONS / 
fEDERATIONS
 9. every National sports association / Federation shall have the following duties, powers, and responsibilities:
  (1) each National sports association / National Federation must compulsorily conduct an annual national 
championship.
  (2) Promote and develop the relevant sport in every province of sri Lanka, and improve the necessary facilities to 
popularize it.
  (3) enhance the standard of the sport and elevate it to international ranking levels.
  (4) Improve the performance level of the national team.
  (5) Identify individuals with natural talent in the relevant sport from all age groups and provide them assistance 
through all possible means.
  (6) select players for international representation based on transparent criteria, in coordination with the director 
General of sports, and in accordance with the selection guidelines stipulated by the relevant international sports 
federations, with the approval of the national sports selection committee appointed by the minister.
  (7) ensure transparency in the administration and management of the National sports association / National 
Federation.
  (8) Conduct training programs to develop the skills and competencies of athletes.
  (9) maintain an information system with athlete biodata, participation records, teams represented, performance data, 
and use such data to identify highly skilled athletes during selection, ranking, and classification processes.
  (10) Enter into Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) with the Ministry of Sports to obtain financial assistance.
  (11) Prepare a comprehensive five-year strategic plan, including the current international ranking levels, expected 
targets within the time frame, and strategies for improving performance.
  (12)  Prepare an annual operational plan for the upcoming year and submit it to the director General of sports three 
months before the end of the current year.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
11 a
  (13) Every National Sports Association / National Federation shall submit certified financial statements for each 
financial year to the Auditor General within two months after the end of the relevant financial year.
  (14) at least once a month, the committees of the National sports associations must meet. In this regard, representatives 
from school sports associations must also be included.
  (15) each National association / Federation shall notify all parties involved at least seven days before holding monthly 
executive committee meetings.
  (16) Every National Association / Federation must hold an annual general meeting of its affiliated associations, sports 
societies, and other organizations. These organizations must also adhere to formal procedures for meetings and 
maintain proper accounting records. If the affiliated organizations, sports societies, and other organizations fail to 
attend three consecutive meetings, they will lose their voting rights during the annual general meeting or in any 
election process of the National association / Federation.
  (17) Every National Sports Association or Federation shall be officially registered with its respective International 
Federation or Federation, with the approval of the Ministry of Sports. No affiliated sports club or any other 
affiliated organization of such National Association or Federation shall be registered directly with the said 
International Federation or association, nor shall such direct registration be maintained.
  (18) If any organization or association affiliated with a National Sports Association or Federation maintains a 
relationship with an International Federation or association independently of the National sports association of 
sri Lanka, the director General of sports shall take necessary measures to create the appropriate environment for 
the National Federation to be registered with the relevant International Federation or association.
  (19) If an entity operates a sports academy, school, training camp, international school, or any such institution that 
conducts sports events, training programs, or related projects, the relevant National sports association / Federation 
or the ministry of sports must properly approve these activities.
  (20) In case foreign athletes participate in such private-level events, a detailed report on the foreign athletes and the 
event must be submitted to the director General of sports at least 21 days before the event. The event must not 
be named as sri Lanka or National events, and if there is any misuse of such names, an investigation will be 
conducted. The relevant organization or individual may face a ten-year suspension from sports under the approval 
of the minister of sports.
  (21) If any sports-related activity is being conducted for the purpose of promoting tourism in a tourist zone or other 
location, and foreign tourists participate, the relevant activity must obtain proper approval from the ministry of 
sports and the ministry of Tourism.
  (22) The lowest level of the National sports associations shall be the regional sports societies, district sports 
associations, and provincial sports associations. These associations should report regularly to the director General 
of sports on the supervision and regulatory activities of their areas.
  (23) The district sports association shall be responsible for promoting and supervising the relevant sport in its 
jurisdiction. This includes conducting at least two regional competitions annually, training athletes, maintaining 
stable regional sports reserves, and ensuring proper management and regulation of regional sports societies.
  (24) The Provincial sports association shall be responsible for conducting at least two inter-district sports competitions 
annually, training athletes, maintaining stable provincial sports reserves, promoting the relevant sport in its 
jurisdiction, and supervising and managing district sports associations within its region.
 10. In addition to the above, every National sports association or Federation must possess the following duties, powers, 
and responsibilities:

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
12a
  (1) every National sports association must submit a detailed report regarding the annual national championship 
organized by the Federation within 14 days from the conclusion of the championship to the director General 
of sports. This report must be signed by the President and the secretary as a true report and submitted with the 
official seal.
  (2) when a National sports association or Federation receives an invitation to participate in a sports event or 
tournament in a foreign country, it must select the athletes or the team in accordance with that invitation.
  (3) In the process of selecting the athletes or the team:
 (i) If a performance standard has been specified by the respective foreign country, selection must be made 
according to that standard.
 (ii) If no such performance standard has been provided, the respective National sports association must consult 
with the National selection Committee and formulate a selection process.
 (iii) If the invitation is for a team event, the team must be selected only according to that invitation.
  (4) The respective National Selection Committee must submit the finalized list of selected athletes or the team to the 
executive Committee of the relevant National sports association or Federation. Upon obtaining the approval of 
the executive Committee, the list must be forwarded for the recommendation of the director General of sports. 
The director General of sports shall obtain the recommendation of the National sports selection Committee for 
the said list, and thereafter it must be submitted for the recommendation of the secretary of the ministry of sports. 
Following that, the Secretary shall forward it for the final approval of the Minister of Sports.
  (5) every athlete selected through the national selection process must mandatorily undergo and pass a medical 
examination and physical fitness test conducted by the National Institute of Sports Medicine.
  (6) any athlete or team intending to go abroad to represent sri Lanka, use the name “sri Lanka,” or wear the sri 
Lankan colors and emblem, shall receive such approval only after obtaining the approval of the minister in charge 
of the subject of sports.
  (7) any athlete or team who has not completed the above-mentioned process shall not be permitted to represent sri 
Lanka, use the name “sri Lanka,” or wear the sri Lankan colors and emblem.
  (8) when any athlete or sports team engages in training activities in a foreign country and wishes to participate in 
a foreign tournament during such period, such athlete or sports team may represent sri Lanka and use the name 
“sri Lanka” and the emblem bearing the sri Lankan colours only upon the submission of a detailed report by the 
relevant National sports association. This report must include an assessment of the skills of the athlete or team 
and be submitted to the director General of sports. Representation and use of the national name and emblem shall 
only be permitted upon the recommendation of the director General of sports and the subsequent approval of the 
minister in charge of sports.
SPORTS  FOR  THE  DISABLED  (PARALYMPICS)
 
 10A. (1) All affiliated sports clubs composed of persons with special needs (such as persons with visual, hearing, or 
physical impairments), in relation to Paralympic sports, must be properly registered as affiliated sports clubs 
under the National sports association for sports for the disabled (National Paralympic Committee). The National 
Paralympic Committee shall provide the necessary facilities for such registration.
  (2) All other affiliated sports clubs composed of persons with special needs (such as persons with visual, hearing, or 
physical impairments), which are not related to Paralympic sports, must be properly registered as affiliated sports 
clubs under the respective National sports association/Federation relevant to that particular sport. The respective 
National sports association/Federation shall provide the necessary facilities for such registration.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
13a
CONDUCT  OF  ANNUAL  GENERAL  MEETINGS  OF  NATIONAL  SPORTS  FEDERATIONS
 11. (1) every National sports Federation shall hold its annual General meeting on or before the 31st of May each year. 
All affiliated associations connected to the relevant sport must be notified in advance of the date and venue of the 
Annual General Meeting. A formal notice must be given to the Secretary or President of the affiliated associations 
at least 14 days in advance.
  (2) Every National Sports Federation shall, at least 14 days before the Annual General Meeting, provide its affiliated 
institutions with:
 (i) The annual Report, and
 (ii) a  list of members entitled to vote,
 (iii) A copy of the financial statements for the preceding financial year, as audited by the Auditor-General, or a 
copy of the financial statements for the preceding financial year, as audited by an auditing firm nominated 
by the auditor-General ;
 (iv)  Copies of financial statements for the preceding financial year, certified by the President, Secretary, and 
Treasurer ;
  (3) at the annual General meeting, the executive Committee of the National sports Federation shall appoint, based 
on qualifications, members to the Technical Committee, Finance Committee, and Disciplinary Committee for a 
period of two (02) years. a  report regarding the said appointments shall thereafter be submitted to the director 
General of Sports, and forwarded through the Secretary of the Ministry for the final approval of the Minister in 
charge of the subject of sports.
  (4) Every National Sports Federation shall present the Annual Report along with the audited financial statements for 
the previous year at the annual General meeting.
  (5) In circumstances where the Auditor General has already certified the financial statements for the previous year(s), 
such statements must also be presented along with the annual Report at the annual General meeting.
  (6) every National sports Federation shall, within one month after each annual General meeting, submit the 
following documents to the director General of sports:
 (i) The details of all executive Committee members elected to the National sports Federation;
 (ii) A certified copy of the minutes of the Annual General Meeting along with a copy of the attendance 
register;
 (iii) A certified copy of the audited financial statements presented at the Annual General Meeting, along with 
proof that these statements were duly approved at the meeting;
 (v) Names and contact information of the members of the election Committee appointed at the special 
General meeting;
 (v) The development plan for the period specified in the constitution, including event calendars and talent 
identification programs;
 (vi) A biannual progress report on the operations of the National Sports Federation regarding the financial 
assistance granted by the government and the monitoring thereof.
PROCEDURE  OF  THE ELECTION  COMMITTEE  OF  NATIONAL  
SPORTS  ASSOCIATIONS / fEDERATIONS
 12. (1) (i) every national sports association or federation shall appoint members to its election committee through a 
special general meeting convened for that purpose. The election committee shall be formally introduced 
during such special general meeting.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
14a
   (ii) In the event that a Federation or association has been dissolved by a Gazette Notification issued by the 
minister, and the director General of sports has been appointed as the competent authority, the election 
Committee shall be appointed by the director General of sports in accordance with the criteria set out 
below. In all other circumstances, the respective National sports association or Federation shall appoint 
its own election Committee in accordance with the same criteria.
   (iii) every national sports association or federation shall, in appointing its election committee, take into account 
the classification of national sports associations and federations as set out below. (This classification is 
solely for administrative purposes and shall not be used to categorize sports or athletes.)
 (A) Grade A national sports associations / federations:
 Associations or federations comprising twenty-five (25) or more affiliated sports clubs or institutions, and 
having an annual turnover of not less than Rupees Fifty million (Rs. 50,000,000).
 (B) Grade B national sports associations / federations:
 Associations or federations comprising fifteen (15) or more affiliated sports clubs or institutions, and 
having an annual turnover of not less than Rupees Ten million (Rs. 10,000,000) but less than Rupees Fifty 
million (Rs. 50,000,000).
 (C) Grade C national sports associations / federations:
 Associations or federations with any number of affiliated sports clubs or institutions, and having an annual 
turnover of less than Rupees Ten million (Rs. 10,000,000).
   (iv) w ithin one week from the date of publication of these regulations in the Government Gazette, the director 
General of sports, in consultation with the minister, shall appoint a committee consisting of not more than 
five (05) members to evaluate and classify all national sports associations currently registered with the 
Department of Sports Development. The said committee shall complete the evaluation and classification 
of the registered associations and submit its recommendations to the director General within one week 
thereof.
   (v) The director General of sports, in consultation with the minister, shall carry out an evaluation and 
classification of all national sports associations and federations once every two years.
   (vi) every national sports association or federation shall appoint the members of its election committee in 
accordance with the composition set out below:
 (A) Grade A national sports associations / federations:
 The election committee shall consist of two retired Judges of the High Court or the Court of Appeal; a 
retired senior officer of the Department of Elections or a senior member of the Election Commission, or 
a retired senior executive grade public officer with experience and qualifications in conducting elections, 
who is not an active member of the said national association or any of its affiliated clubs or affiliated 
organizations; and a representative appointed by the secretary to the ministry of sports.
 (B) Grade B national sports associations / federations:
 The election committee shall consist of one retired Judge of the High Court or the Court of Appeal; two 
retired senior public officers of the Department of Elections or members of the Election Commission, 
or two retired senior executive grade public officers, none of whom shall be active members of the said 
national association or any of its affiliated clubs or affiliated organizations; and a representative appointed 
by the secretary to the ministry of sports.
 (C) Grade C national sports associations / federations:
 The election committee shall consist of three retired senior executive grade public officers with experience 
in conducting elections, none of whom shall be active members of the said national association or any 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
15a
of its affiliated clubs or affiliated organizations; and a representative appointed by the Secretary to the 
ministry of sports.
  (2) In the event of an election conducted by the director General of sports or by a National sports association, a 
special General meeting shall be convened for the purpose of appointing members to the election Committee. 
Prior notice of such meeting shall be given to the Secretary or President of each affiliated association related to 
the respective sport, at least fourteen (14) days in advance. 
  (3) In the case of an election conducted by the director General of sports or by a National sports association, a 
special General meeting shall be held after the director General of sports or the National sports association has 
obtained and examined the following documents from all affiliated associations. In doing so, the provisions of the 
Constitution shall be taken into consideration, and a detailed report shall be submitted to the election Committee 
on the date of the Special General Meeting, indicating which affiliated associations are eligible or ineligible to 
vote at the annual General meeting.
   (The following documents must be submitted by the respective affiliated association, duly certified as true copies 
and signed by both the President and Secretary of the association with the official seal affixed:)
 (i) The Constitution of the affiliated association.
 (ii) The report of the most recent General Meeting held by the affiliated association, along with the attendance 
register containing signatures and a list of participating members.
 (iii) The official receipt or bank deposit slip confirming the last payment made by the affiliated association to 
the national association as its annual membership fee.
 (iv) The most recent financial report submitted by the affiliated association.
 (v) The list of office bearers of the Executive Committee most recently appointed by the affiliated association, 
including their names, National Identity Card numbers, addresses, email addresses, and telephone 
numbers.
 (vi) Details of the recent activities of the affiliated association (e.g., tournament participation, training camps, 
workshops, etc. ).
  (4) In addition to the above, the following factors must also be taken into consideration when determining whether 
the affiliated associations are entitled to voting rights or not:
 (i) Annual membership fees must have been paid by the specified due date.
 (ii) The respective sub-association must have been registered with or obtained membership in the relevant 
national association/conference and must have completed a minimum period of two years.
 (iii) Players or teams must have participated in at least two annual sports competitions, including the national 
championship organized annually by the national sports association.
 (iv) Training camps and training programs must have been conducted continuously throughout the year.
  (5) (i) at the said special general meeting, the election committee must announce, the sub-associations that are 
eligible or ineligible to vote. 
 (ii) Following this announcement, any objections regarding the eligibility or ineligibility of voting rights by any 
affiliated sub-association must be submitted to the election committee within two days from the date of that 
announcement. 
 (iii) The election committee must examine those objections and, within five days from the close of the objection 
submission period, issue a final list of sub-associations eligible to vote to all sub-associations through the 
national sports association. 
 (iv) Once the final list of sub-associations eligible to vote has been published, the election committee must issue 
a notice calling for nominations related to the election. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
16a
  (6) The period between the date of calling for nominations and the final date for accepting nominations should not 
exceed seven days. 
  (7) The election committee must open the nominations in the presence of all parties on the final day of accepting 
nominations. 
  (8) all objections to the nominations must be submitted to the election committee within three days from the closing 
date of nominations. 
  (9) The election committee must examine the objections in the presence of both the complainant and the person 
objected to, and must issue a decision regarding the objections within three days from the date of closing the 
objection period. 
  (10) Any party aggrieved by a decision or action of the election committee has the right to file an appeal with the 
Appeals Advisory Committee within three working days from the date of notification of such decision, upon 
payment of the prescribed fee. 
  (11) The appeals advisory Committee must issue its decision on the appeal within ten (10) working days. 
  (12) Thereafter, the election committee must forward the final nomination list to the national association, which must 
inform all sub-associations at least fourteen days in advance and conduct the election at the annual general 
meeting.
P aRT  IV
PROCEDURE  fOR  APPEALS  AGAINST  DECISIONS  OR  ACTIONS  Of  THE   
NATIONAL  SPORTS ASSOCIATION / fEDERATION
aPPeaLs  adVIsOR y   COmmITTee
 13. (1) The Minister in charge of the subject of sports shall appoint an Appeals Advisory Committee consisting of five 
(05) members. The members of the Appeals Advisory Committee shall hold office for a term of four (04) years 
and may be eligible for reappointment for another term of four (04) years. No person shall serve as a member of 
the appeals advisory Committee for a period exceeding eight (08) years in total.
  (2) The Minister shall appoint a Secretary to the Appeals Advisory Committee. Such Secretary shall hold office for 
a term of four (04) years and may be reappointed for another term of four (04) years. No person shall serve as 
secretary to the appeals advisory Committee for a period exceeding eight (08) years in total.
  (3) The remuneration of the members and the secretary of the appeals advisory Committee shall be determined by 
the minister in charge of the subject of sports, in consultation with the secretary to the ministry of sports, and 
shall be paid through the National sports Fund.
  (4) any person aggrieved by a decision and/or action of a National sports association/Federation, an election 
committee, or the National Olympic Committee, may submit an appeal to the appeals advisory Committee 
through the secretary to the ministry of sports. any such appeal made to the appeals advisory Committee shall 
have the same legal effect as an appeal made to the Minister under Section 30 of the Sports Act.
  (5) To confirm such appeal, all relevant evidence and necessary documents, along with the original receipt for a 
non-refundable payment of sri Lankan Rupees Twenty-Five Thousand (Rs. 25,000/-) made to the ministry, must 
be submitted. The appeal shall be submitted to the secretary of the ministry of sports in four (04) copies. all 
payments made for appeals must be deposited into the National sports Fund. any appeal made by an athlete 
regarding player selections or player payments shall be exempted from any payment.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
17a
  (6) The secretary to the ministry of sports shall, within seven (07) days, forward any duly completed appeal to the 
secretary of the appeals advisory Committee. If there is a vacancy in the position of the secretary to the appeals 
advisory Committee, the secretary to the ministry of sports shall directly forward the appeal to the appeals 
advisory Committee.
  (7) The appeals advisory Committee may request further information as it deems necessary and shall, within 
fourteen (14) days of receiving the appeal, forward its recommendations to the minister in charge of the subject 
of sports through the secretary to the ministry of sports.
  (8) The minister may consider the recommendations of the appeals advisory Committee and inform the decision 
regarding the appeal. Such decision of the Minister shall be final and conclusive in accordance with Section 30 of 
the sports act and shall not be challenged before any court of law.
Pa RT  V
GENERAL  REGULATIONS  fOR  NATIONAL  SPORTS  ASSOCIATIONS / fEDERATIONS
 14. (1) The director General of sports shall maintain a register of all National sports associations and Federations 
registered under the Ministry. This register shall be in accordance with “Form A” specified in Sub-Schedule 1 
herein. additionally, the director General of sports shall maintain a digital data system containing the information 
specified in Part 1 herein for each National Sports Association or Federation.
  (2) Each National Sports Association or Federation shall consist of affiliated institutions, sports clubs, or other 
organizations relevant to the specific sport as determined by the constitution of the said Association or Federation. 
These affiliated bodies must be comprised of active members engaged in training programs, organizing 
competitions, and technical activities.
  (3) Every National Sports Association or Federation shall submit its financial statements, certified by the Executive 
Committee, to the Auditor General within two months after the end of each financial year.
  (4) If the financial statements for the preceding year have been submitted to the Auditor General for audit within 
two (02) months from the end of the financial year but the audited financial statements have not been received 
in time to be circulated to the members at least fourteen (14) days prior to the date of the election, the election 
and the Annual General Meeting may be conducted without presenting the audited financial statements. Upon 
receipt of the audited financial statements from the Auditor General, such audit report together with the financial 
statements—certified by the Chairman, Secretary, and Treasurer of the relevant financial year—shall be circulated 
to all affiliated institutions by the current Executive Committee at least fourteen (14) days prior to a Special 
General Meeting convened for this purpose. The said financial statements shall then be adopted at such Special 
General meeting with the participation of both the current executive Committee and the Chairman, secretary, 
and Treasurer of the relevant financial year.
  (5) If it is revealed that any member of the executive Committee of a National sports association or Federation is 
directly or indirectly involved in any form of procurement process, the director-General of sports shall have the 
authority to investigate such a breach of these regulations. Upon being satisfied that an officer of the Executive 
Committee has violated these regulations, the director-General of sports shall take appropriate action against the 
said officer as follows::
 (i) Removal of the officer from the said National Sports Association / Federation and from all committees of 
all National sports associations / Federations;
 (ii) Imposition of a ban preventing the said officer from holding office in any National Sports Association / 
Federation for a period not less than three (3) years and not exceeding five (5) years;
 (iii) Recommendation to the minister of sports to take further appropriate actions under the sports Law;

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
18a
  (6) a  person shall not hold membership in the executive Committee of more than one national sports association/
federation during any given period of time.
  (7) If any person holding a post in the Executive Committee of a national sports association/federation or any affiliated 
sports society/association is reported to a competent court of criminal jurisdiction in Sri Lanka for an offense 
related to such association/society, and if, following a preliminary investigation, a charge sheet/indictment is 
filed for an offence under laws relating to money laundering, bribery, corruption or any related criminal offense, 
or any offense stipulated in the Penal Code, such person shall be immediately suspended from holding office by 
the Director General of Sports. Such suspension shall remain in effect until the conclusion of the relevant court 
proceedings and delivery of the final judgment.
  (8) The National Sports Associations/Federations must engage in international agreements and financial transactions 
in compliance with national financial laws, ensuring financial discipline and transparency. Such agreements must 
be submitted for the recommendation of the secretary of the ministry—who serves as the Chief accounting 
Officer of the Ministry—and for approval by the Minister in charge of the subject of sports.
  (9) In the event that a national sports federation/association finds it impractical to comply with these regulations due 
to the nature of the sport or situational factors, it may submit a request to the secretary of the ministry. Upon 
recommendation by the secretary, the minister may grant an exemption from the relevant provisions.
  (10) The director General of sports or a duly authorized representative must attend the annual General meetings and 
any special General meetings of every national sports association/federation.
  (11) any sri Lankan citizen who also holds citizenship of another country must have been a registered taxpayer in 
sri Lanka for a period of at least two years prior to the date of calling for nominations, in order to be eligible for 
election as a member of the executive Committee of any national sports association/federation.
  (12) every national sports association/federation shall obtain prior approval from the director General of sports 
before imposing any punishment, suspension, ban, or cancellation against an athlete, affiliated club, individual, 
or organization with links to the said national federation/association. such disciplinary action must be decided by 
a duly constituted authority or committee within the association/federation.
  (13) The use of the national emblem and/or the national flag in letterheads or certificates for any sport may only be 
done by state institutions under the ministry of sports or the ministry of education. all other national sports 
associations/federations must use only their official emblem and colors for letterheads and certificates.
  (14) The name “National” or “sri Lanka” shall be used by a national sports association or federation only after duly 
completing the registration process specified under these regulations. Any national sports association/federation 
or any affiliated sports body or other affiliated organization that has not been properly registered and uses the 
terms “National” or “sri Lanka” shall be deemed to be in violation of these regulations.
  (15) every national sports association/federation shall include in its constitution the complete eligibility and ineligibility 
criteria, along with procedures, relating to the voting rights of affiliated sports bodies during official elections.
  (16) every national sports association/federation shall submit a report to the director General of the department of 
Sports Development once every six (06) months, disclosing all forms of financial sponsorships, financial grants, 
monetary and material donations or gifts, and any other movable or immovable assets received from external 
parties.
  (17) When selecting athletes, coaches, or officials for participation in overseas competitions, foreign training 
programs, or other international sports-related events, no individual who is not essential to such program shall be 
recommended by any national sports association/federation or national selection committee to the department of 
sports development.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
19a
  (18) The National selection Committee shall have the authority to ensure transparency in all matters related to athlete 
selection procedures, appointment of coaches and support staff, and other associated aspects for each national 
sport. It shall also examine and report to the minister of sports regarding any complaints received in this regard.
  (19) every national sports association/federation shall maintain a record in the “Form d” set out in the schedule I  of 
these regulations and issue a registration certificate to each affiliated institution, sports club, or other organization 
that actively participates in the relevant sport.
  (20) every national sports association/federation shall supervise and regulate its regional sports clubs, district sports 
associations, provincial sports associations, and other key affiliated sports clubs. It shall also inquire and report 
to the director General of sports whether each district sports association promotes the sport within its territory, 
holds at least two annual regional tournaments, trains athletes, maintains a permanent pool of players, and 
properly supervises and regulates local sports clubs.
  (21) every National sports association shall formulate a legally acceptable code of conduct and disciplinary 
procedures, which shall include legal actions that may be taken against any person who commits an offense 
in any manner (technical, competitive, or financial). This code of conduct must be approved by the Executive 
Committee and the annual General meeting or a special General meeting of the respective association, and then 
be submitted to the director General of sports for approval. The code must be prepared in compliance with the 
relevant regulations of the sports act and the regulations of the relevant international governing body.
  (22) every National sports association / Federation shall annually submit to the director General of sports a report 
containing details of all activities, including elections and related matters, conducted by affiliated sports clubs, 
institutions, district sports associations, provincial sports associations, and any member organizations affiliated to 
any district or provincial body.
  (23) at the time of nomination for election as a member of the executive Committee of a National sports association 
/ Federation, each nominee shall submit a declaration of their assets and liabilities as at march 31st of that year 
to the relevant election Committee. Failure or refusal to do so shall render such person ineligible to be elected to 
any post in the National sports association / Federation. The submitted asset and liability declarations shall be 
forwarded to the Director General of Sports by the relevant Election Committee within five (05) working days 
after the conclusion of the election process.
  (24) Any misconduct, negligence, dishonorable act, or dereliction of duty committed by any athlete, manager, or official 
representing sri Lanka in sports, either locally or abroad, which brings disrepute to sri Lanka, shall be subject to 
disciplinary action, suspension, or penalties. such actions may be implemented based on the recommendations of 
a duly appointed Inquiry Committee by the subject minister, the secretary to the ministry, or the director General 
of˙˙ Sports.
P aRT  VI
INTERIM  PROVISIONS
 15. Under the regulations rescinded by this Gazette, every National sports association or Federation whose entire executive 
Committee—including all office bearers—was required to be elected by a proper electoral process for the year 2025 
but which, as of the date of publication of this Gazette, has not yet completed such elections, shall—notwithstanding 
anything previously stated in this Gazette—elect its entire Executive Committee, including all office bearers, by a 
proper electoral process within ninety (90) days from the date of publication. all such elections shall be conducted 
under the direct supervision of the director General of sports.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
20a
P aRT  VII 
INTERPRETATION.
 16. In the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala, Tamil and english texts of this act, the sinhala text shall prevail.
 
17. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them:
“Athlete” means a person who participates in a sport or sporting event at either national or international level.
“Betting” includes the following acts:
 (a) Placing, accepting, offering, or otherwise engaging in any form of betting (whether individually, 
collectively, or otherwise) with any other party, in relation to the result, progress, conduct, or any other 
aspect of any sport, competition, or event;
 (b)  soliciting, inducing, persuading, instructing, enticing, encouraging, facilitating, or authorizing any other 
party to engage in betting on the result, progress, conduct, or any other aspect of any sport, competition, 
or event;
 (c) where an athlete is aware of any incident or event being subject to a bet, and guarantees such an outcome 
during a competition, event, or sport in expectation of or having received any benefit.
“Corruption” means engaging in or being a party to any form of planning or use of methods, in any manner 
whatsoever, that improperly influences or is intended to improperly influence the outcome, progress, 
conduct, or any other aspect of a competition or event.
“Doping” means any offense under the Convention against Doping in Sports Act, No. 33 of 2013 or any amendment 
thereto.
“National Sports Association / federation” has the same meaning as in the sports Law.
“National Sports Championship / National Sports Competition / National Championship”  refers to a sports 
competition or event organized at the national level by a National sports association or Federation.
“Charge Sheet ” shall bear the same meaning as defined in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act.
“Duly Appointed Committee” means a committee appointed by the ministry of sports or the department of 
sports development with the approval of the minister in charge of the subject of sports. every such 
committee shall comprise individuals possessing relevant subject matter and legal knowledge pertinent 
to the inquiry at hand.
“Sports Law” refers to the sports Law No. 25 of 1973 or any amendment thereto.
“Prevention of Offences Relating to Sports Act” refers to the act No. 24 of 2019.
“financial Year” means the period beginning on January 1st and ending on December 31st of any given year.
“National Sports Selection Committee” refers to the committee mentioned in the Regulations for the Control of 
Participants Representing sri Lanka in sports, published in Gazette No. 130 dated september 20, 1974, 
as amended by Gazette No. 2298/84 dated september 24, 2022.
“National Selection Committee” (within a National sports association/Federation) refers to the committee 
appointed with the approval of the minister in charge of the subject of sports for the selection of athletes 
to represent sri Lanka at international competitions.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
21a
“Paralympic Sports” refers to sports recognized as such by the International Paralympic Committee.
“Regional Sports Club” means a sports club established within a divisional secretariat division in relation to a 
particular sport.
“District Sports Associations” refers to associations comprising all regional sports clubs established in such 
a way that they cover all divisional secretariat divisions within a district. These associations are 
accountable to both the Provincial and National sports associations and the responsibility for their 
regulation lies with the National sports association.
“Provincial Sports Associations” refers to the union of all district sports associations that, in turn, comprise all 
Regional sports Clubs established so as to cover all divisional secretariat divisions within a province. 
These associations are accountable to the National sports association, which is responsible for their 
regulation.
“Minister” means the minister in charge of the subject of sports.
“Secretary to the Ministry”  means the secretary to the ministry in charge of the subject of sports.
P aRT  VIII
RESCINDING Of  REGULATIONS
 18. w ithout prejudice to anything lawfully done under the following regulations made by the minister of sports under the 
provisions of the sports act, the following regulations are hereby rescinded:
Regulations titled “National sports associations Regulations No. 1 of 2016” published in 
Extraordinary Gazette No. 1990/23 dated 27th October 2016
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2006/13 dated 13th February 2017
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2017/41 dated 5th may 2017
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2089/56 dated 22nd september 2018
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2093/39 dated 18th October 2018
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2105/38 dated 10th January 2019
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2128/8 dated 18th June 2019
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2137/86 dated 23rd august 2019
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2166/9 dated 10th march 2020
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2173/13 dated 30th april 2020
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2177/8 dated 27th may 2020
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2186/31 dated 31st July 2020
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2193/55 dated 18th september 2020
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2194/4 dated 21st september 2020
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2194/54 dated 23rd september 2020
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2202/17 dated 19th November 2020

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
22a
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2207/7 dated 23rd december 2020
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2215/47 dated 19th February 2021
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2230/7 dated 1st June 2021
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2272/40 dated 23rd march 2022
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2281/36 dated 26th may 2022
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2281/37 dated 27th may 2022
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2296/19 dated 8th september 2022
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2297/94 dated 17th september 2022
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2298/50 dated 22nd september 2022
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2304/88 dated 5th November 2022
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2310/26 dated 14th december 2022
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2310/28 dated 14th december 2022
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2331/10 dated 8th may 2023
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2334/22 dated 31st may 2023
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2342/48 dated 28th July 2023
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2344/22 dated 9th august 2023
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2345/65 dated 17th august 2023
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2351/07 dated 25th september 2023
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2356/43 dated 5th November 2023
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2366/42 dated 13th January 2024
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2368/21 dated 24th January 2024
Extraordinary Gazette No. 2382/32 dated 3rd may 2024
19. every national sports association registered under the rescinded regulations shall be considered as a national sports 
association registered under these regulations.
SCHEDULE  I
(2nd Regulation)
“form A”
APPLICATION  fOR  REGISTRATION  Of  A  NATIONAL  SPORTS  ASSOCIATION/ fEDERATION
 1. Name of the National sports association/ Federation:  ……………………………………………………………………
……………………………………… .......................................................................................................................................
2.  address:  ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………...........
3. date of establishment of the National sports association/ Federation:  ……………………………………………………
………………………………………………………...............................................................................................................
4. Name of the sport or sports Category:  …………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………............................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
23a
5. The following documents are attached to this application form: ..........................................................................................
....................................................................................................................................................................................................
  
 (a) A copy of the constitution of the National Sports Association/federation containing the particulars specifically set 
out in Part II herein.: y es / No
 (b) The name, office address, telephone number and communication details including email of the National Sports 
association/ Federation: y es / No
 (c) The names, addresses, telephone numbers and communication details including email of the current executive 
committee members of the National sports association/ Federation: y es / No
 (d) a  properly signed document as per the “Form e” mentioned in the annex, certifying the appointment of the above 
executive committee members, along with the annual general meeting report, certified with the signatures and 
official stamps of the Chairman and Secretary: Yes / No
 (e A certified copy of the audited financial statements for the previous financial year, signed and stamped by the 
Chairman and Secretary of the National Sports Association/ Federation. (For this purpose, the financial year is 
considered as the period starting from January 1st and ending on December 31st.): Yes / No
 (f) The names, addresses, telephone numbers and communication details including email of affiliated institutions, 
sports clubs, and other organizations, along with the names, addresses, telephone numbers and communication 
details of committee members of these affiliated institutions, sports clubs and organizations: Yes / No
 (g) A report certified by the relevant district sports officers confirming that the National Sports Association/ Federation 
is operating in at least three administrative districts, submitted by the Chairman and secretary of the National 
sports association/ Federation: y es / No
 6. Date of the annual general meeting at which the current office-bearers were elected:  ……………………………………
……………………………………………………………………….........................................................................
This application for registration is submitted by ………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………(Name of the National sports association/ Federation) based on the proposal approved during 
the annual general meeting. (Please attach a copy of the approved proposal and the meeting minutes)
Signature and official stamp of the Chairman of the National Sports Association/ Federation:
Name and address:   
date:
Signature and official stamp of the Secretary of the National Sports Association/ Federation:
Name and address:
date:

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
24a
(2nd Regulation)
“form  B”
CERTIfICATE  Of   REGISTRATION  Of   A  NATIONAL  SPORTS  ASSOCIATION / fEDERATION
Name of the National sports association / Federation: …………………………………………………................................
I hereby certify that the National sports association / Federation for the sport of ………………………………………, 
(name of the sport) which commenced operations on …........................ day of ..................... 20............... under the provisions 
of section 29 of the sports act, No. 25 of 1973, has been duly registered as a ………………………………………. The 
registration number assigned to the association is …………………………………………..
date: ……………………………………                                               ………………………………….,
 director General of sports.
(2nd Regulation)
“form  C”
REGISTER  Of   REGISTERED  NATIONAL  SPORTS  ASSOCIATION / fEDERATION
 
 1. Name of the sport or sports category: ………………………………………………………  ..........................
 2. details regarding the regulation under section 28 of the sports act: ……………………… .........................
  (1) Gazette publication date/number: ………………………………………………………  ..........................
  (2) Department of Sports Development/Ministry of Sports file number: ………………… ............................
 3. date of initial registration as a National sports association: ………………………………  ..........................
 4. Address of the association and office bearers with contact information for communication : ………………………
………………………………………………………………………
 5. If registration was previously canceled/suspended, the date of cancellation/suspension: …..  ........................
 6. Interim Committee (if any, and the time period): ……………………………………………  ........................
 7. w as the annual General meeting held? y es/No date: ………………………………………  ........................
 8. w ere the annual accounts audited by an auditor? y es/No date: ……………………………..  .......................
 9. w as the constitution registered by the director General? y es/No date: …………………….  ........................
 10. National sports competitions held: …………………………………………………………..  ........................

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
25a
“form D”
PART A
REGISTER  OF  MEMBERS DIRECTLY  AFFILIATED  TO  
 NATIONAL  SPORTS  ASSOCIATION / fEDERATION
 1. Name of the National sports association / Federation: ……………………………………  ..............................
 2. Name of affiliated institution: …………………………………………………. .................................................
 3. address: …………………………………………………. ..................................................................................
 4. Number of members: ………………………………………………….  ..............................................................
 5. Number of representatives authorized to participate in the annual General meetings: ………  ..........................
 6. Number of votes authorized for members during the annual General meetings: ………… ...............................
 7. Names of the members: ………………………………………………….  ..........................................................
 8. Names, positions, and addresses of the office bearers : ……………………………………… ...........................
 9. Names and addresses of the committee members: …………………………………………  ..............................
PART  B
REGISTER  OF  MEMBERS  AFFILIATED  TO  PROVINCIAL  ASSOCIATIONS,  DISTRICT 
ASSOCIATIONS,  fEDERATIONS,  LEAGUES  OR  ANY  OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS  wHICH  ARE  AffILIATED  TO  THE   
NATIONAL  SPORTS  ASSOCIATION / fEDERATION
 1. Name of the Provincial Association, District Association, Unified Association, League, or any other organization: 
………………………………………………………………………… .............................................................
 2. address: …………………………………………………………………………… ..........................................
 3. Affiliated institutions: ……………………………………………………………… .........................................
 4. address: …………………………………………………………………………… ..........................................
 5. Number of members: ……………………………………………………………  ..............................................
 6. Names, positions, and addresses of the office bearers : ………………… ..........................................................
 7. Names and addresses of committee members : …………………………………  ..............................................

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.05.2025
26a
(2nd Regulation)
“form  E”
Name  Affiliated Sports Association 
or Institution Represented
designation signature
      
Signature and Official Seal of the President of the National Sports Association / Federation:
 
 Signature and Official Seal of the Secretary of the National Sports Association / Federation:
 
date:
 
SCHEDULE  II
NAMES OF SPORTS
 1. Badminton
 2. aquatic sports
 3. Body Building
 4. Cycling
 5. Rifle
 6. Hockey
 7. Karate Do
 8. Yachting
 9. Rugby
10. w eightlifting
11. Gymnastic
12. Golf
13. w restling
14. automobile sports
15. Basket Ball
16. athletics
17. Cricket
18. Netball
19. Tennis
20. Bridge
21. Carrom 
22. Life saving
23. Boxing
24. Judo
25. Billiards & snooker
26. Football
27. V olleyball
28. elle
29. Chess
30. Rowing
31. Table Tennis
32. squash
33. Taekwondo
34. softball Cricket
35. Powerlifting
36. Kabaddi
37. sports for the disabled    
      (Paralympics)
38. motor Cycle sports
39. Baseball
40. w ushu
41. Throw ball
42. archery
43. equestrian
44. Traditional Karate
45. Handball
46. Tug of w ar
47. shooting
48. Fencing 
49. Roller skating
50. sepak Takrow
51. sumo
52. modern Pentathlon
53. Ju Jitsu
54. sambo
55. Kho-Kho
56. angampora
57. Kudo
58. Ballroom dancing
59. Roll Ball
60. Climbing and    
      mountaineering
61. Canoeing and 
      Kayaking
62. scrabble
63. muay Thai
64. Unifight
65. Powerboat
66. Surfing
67. Ball Badminton
68. French savate
69. Lawn Bowl
70. esports
71. Teqball
72. Jeet Kune - Do
73. Korfball
74. Cestoball
eOG 05 - 0119
PRINTed a T THe deP aRTmeNT OF GOVeRNmeNT PRINTING,  sRI LaNKa.