

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SUGATHADASA  NATIONAL  SPORTS  COMPLEX
AUTHORITY  (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 14 OF 2017
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 17th of August, 2017]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 18, 2017

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sugathadasa National Sports Complex
Authority (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2017
2—PL 005274—  2,961 (06/2017)
Short title.
[Certified on 17th of August, 2017]
L.D.—O. 62/2016.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE SUGATHADASA NATIONAL SPORTS COMPLEX
AUTHORITY ACT, NO. 17 OF 1999
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sugathadasa National
Sports Complex Authority (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2017.
2. The long title to the Sugathadasa National Sports
Complex Authority Act, No. 17 of 1999 (hereinafter referred
to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended by the
substitution for the words “TO MANAGE AND MAINTAIN”
of the words “TO MANAGE, MAINTAIN, PROTECT AND
DEVELOP”.
3. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 2 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 2
A of that enactment:—
2A. The objects of the Authority shall be
to —
(a) manage, maintain, protect and
develop the Sugathadasa National
Sports Complex;
(b) improve sports and recreational
activities and facilities at the
Sugathadasa National Sports
Complex to meet the requirements
of sports economy and sports
tourism;
Amendment of
the long title to
Act, No. 17 of
1999.
Insertion of new
section 2
A in the
principal
enactment.
“Objects of
the
Authority.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sugathadasa National Sports Complex
Authority (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2017
Amendment of
section 3 of the
principal
enactment.
(c) provide the facilities available at the
Sugathadasa National Sports
Complex for the advancement of
sports in the country;
(d) ensure that sports and recreation are
used as tools to support social
cohesion and nation building; and
(e) make available, on such conditions
and on such fees as may be
determined by the Board, the
facilities of the Sugathadasa
National Sports Complex for sports,
educational, cultural, and
recreational activities.”.
4. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the repeal of subsections (3) and (4) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following subsections:—
“(3) The Minister shall appoint —
(a) one of the members of  the Board to be
the Chairman of the Authority; and
(b) an appointed member of the Board to
be the Working Director of the
Authority to facilitate the management
and administration of the affairs of the
Authority.
(4) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall
have effect in relation to the terms of office of, and the
vacation of office by, the Chairman, Working Director
and the appointed members of the Board, meetings of
the Board and the seal of the Authority.”.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sugathadasa National Sports Complex
Authority (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2017
Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.
5. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows:—
(1) by the repeal of paragraph ( a) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph:—
“(a) manage, maintain, protect and develop the
Sugathadasa National Sports Complex and
take necessary measures to safeguard it as a
national asset;”; and
(2) by the repeal of paragraph ( h) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph:—
“(h) make available on such conditions and on
such appropriate cost reflective fees as may
be determined by the Board, the facilities
of the Sugathadasa National Sports
Complex for sports, educational, cultural
and recreational activities.”.
6. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the repeal of paragraph ( a) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:—
“(a) to purchase and hold property, both
movable and immovable, and to give on
lease or hire the same;”; and
(2) by the repeal of paragraph ( j) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph:—
“(j) to do all such other acts as may be necessary,
incidental or conducive to the attainment
of the objects of the Authority or the
discharge of its functions under this Act.”.
Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sugathadasa National Sports Complex
Authority (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2017
7. The Schedule to the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the substitution for item 6 thereof, of the
following item:—
“6. Where the Chairman, the Working
Director or any appointed member of the Board
is, by reason of illness, absence from Sri Lanka
or other cause, temporarily unable to perform
the duties of his office, the Minister may, taking
into consideration the provisions of section 3,
appoint another ex-officio member or appointed
member, as the case may be, to act as such
Chairman, Working Director or such member.”;
(2) in item 8 thereof, by the substitution for the words
“the Chairman from office” of the words “the
Chairman or the Working Director from office”;
(3) in item 9 thereof, by the substitution for the words
“The Chairman may resign  from the office of
the Chairman” of the words “the Chairman or
the Working Director may resign  from the office
of the Chairman or the Working Director,
respectively”; and
(4) in item 10 thereof, by the substitution for the words
“the term of office of the Chairman” of the words
“the term of office of the Chairman or the Working
Director”.
8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Amendment of
the Schedule to
the principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sugathadasa National Sports Complex
Authority (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2017
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .