

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
223
223
wxl 1"798 - 2013 fmnrjdß 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'02'15
No. 1,798 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 15, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 226
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 233
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 08th March, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd
February, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,797 of 08.02.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
224
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
225
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
226
Posts – Vacant
HAMBANTOTA   DISTRICT
Amendment of Closing Date of Applications for Recruitment of Registrar of Marriage, Birth and Death of the
Registrar General's Department
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Muslim Marriage Registrar for the Division appearing
in the following Schedule which was published by me in the Gazette No. 1,785 of 16.11.2012 is extended as 28.02.2013.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
Registrar General.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which applications
Division application are called should be sent
Hambantota Ambalantota Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional
in Bolana Division Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Hambantota
02–426
––––––––––––––––––––
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called in Terms of the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of
Quazis for the Areas indicated in the Following Schedule
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply.
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized University
or a Maulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized by
the Ministry in Charge of Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or
a holder of the Al-Alim Certificate  by the Department of Education
or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar qualification or a
retired public servant who has held office in staff grade.
A person currently holding a permannet post in the public service
shall not be eligible to apply.
Applicants should be married persons over 40 years, should be
physically fit and of good character and standing in the community
and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim
Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period, which will
be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all
exclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of support
services, stationary and postal expenses.
Applications forms can be obained from the Judicial Service
Commission Secretariat and should be sent by registered post along
with the copies of the relevant certificates to reach the Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission on or before 14th March 2013. The
envelope containing the application should be marked "Post of Quazi"
on its top left hand corner.
M
ANJULA THILAKARATHNE,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box - 573,
Hulftsdorp,
Colombo 12.
SCHEDULE
01. Anuradapura - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the Nuwaragam, Hurulu
and Talagam revenue divisions in Anuradapura District under
(Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
02. Colombo South - Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the post of Quazi in Slave Island,
Cinnamon Garden, Kollupitiya, Bambalapitiya, Havelock
Town, Narahenpita, Wellawatta and Kirulapone in the Judicial
Zone of Colombo under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
227
03. Beruwala - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the D.S's Division of
Beruwala in Kalutara District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
04. Kurunegala - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Kurunegala under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
05. Monaragala - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Monaragala under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
06. Negombo - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Negombo under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
07. Oddamawadi - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the Revenue Division
of Koralaipattu West in Batticaloa District under (Chapter
15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
08. Pulmodai - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the Revenue Division
of Kaddukulampattu East and West in Trincomalee District
under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.
09. Ratnapura - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Ratnapura under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
10. Refugee Population - Applications are called by the Judicial
Service Commission for the post of Quazi for the Refugee
population under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
11. Tumpane - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the D. S's Division of
Tumpane in Kandy District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act.
12. Kegalle - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Kegalle under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
Act.
13. Hambantota - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Zone of
Hambantota under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage and
Divorce Act.
14. Kattankudy - Applications are called by the Judicial Service
Commission for the post of Quazi in the Revenue Division
of Manmunaipattu North and South, Eruvil and Poraitivu in
Batticaloa District under (Chapter 15) the Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act.
02–604
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
OFFICER  CADET  AND  LADY  OFFICER  CADET  V ACANCIES
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following branches:
(a) General Duties Pilot Branch (Male)
(b) Technical Engineering (Male/Female)
(c) Logistics Branch (Male/Female)
(d) Administrative Branch (Male/Female)
(e) Administrative Regiment Branch (Male/Female)
(f) Operations Air Branch (Male/Female).
2.  Applications are invited from Male/Female candidates possessing the qualifications given below:-
BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant Qualifications (Accredited by the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University).
General Duties Pilot /Operations Air Branches :
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L Examination with four Credits including Credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala /Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the GCE A/L Examination in Physical/Bio Science Stream in
one sitting.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
228
Technical Engineering Branch :
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the GCE A/L examination in the Physical Science Stream in one
sitting.
Logistics/Administrative/Administrative Regiment Branches :
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the GCE A/L examination in the Physical/Bio Science/
Commerce  Stream in one sitting. Students of the Arts Stream with a minimum of three ordinary passes (as applicable)
at the GCE A/L examination are also eligible to apply for the Administrative Regiment Branch.
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air
Force :–
(a) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Age : Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years as at 01st July, 2013 ;
(c) Height : Male - 5' 6" and above ;
Female - 5' 4" and above ;
(d) Weight : Male 17< BMI < 26
Female 17< BMI < 25
BMI  = 
Weight (kg)  
Height2 (m)
(e) Chest : Male - 32" (Minimum )
(f) Colour Vision : CP 2
Standard
(g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without spectacles)
(h) Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried. No cadet will be permitted to marry whilst under training and for a
further period of one (01) year from the Date of Commissioning.
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the requirement of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview
the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight  are below the standard specified in the Gazette
Notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service
may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered even though he / she may not have the requisite height pr ovided
he / she possesses the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
6. Conditions of service :–
(a) The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as a Cadet on a regular engagement in the same manner as for Other
Ranks and will undergo a Basic Combat Training Course. On successful completion of training, the duration of which
will depend on the branch, the status allocated on his / her enlistment as an Other Rank will lapse and will receive a
Permanent Commission in the rank of Pilot Officer.
(b) Cadets will be required to undergo training at a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the Commander of the Air
Force in consultation with the Ministry of Defence.
(c) During the period of training as Cadets and thereafter, personnel will be subject to Air Force Law.
(d) Every Cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
(e) During the period of training, a Cadet will be accommodated in an Air Force Mess and will be provided with food.
(f) In the event of a Cadet voluntarily terminating his/her candidature for a commission during training, the parent or
guardian will be required to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic
of Sri Lanka on account of such Cadet.
(g) If at any time during his / her course a Cadet is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct
or due to causes within his/her control to qualify for a commission, his/her parent or guardian will be required to refund

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
229
to the Sri Lanka Air Force all expenses incurred on his/her training and will be required to enter into a bond to this effect
with the Commander of the Air Force acting on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 27 of the application form in respect of sub-paragraphs (f) and
(g) above, and forward them together with the application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter into a bond
subsequently in this form with the Republic of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates as Cadets.
(i) Candidates who possess the requirement as per para 2 and 3 will be called for the Preliminary Interview and if
successful will be called for the Officer Quality Tests. Candidates who pass the Officer Quality Tests will be called for
Medical Examinations (All candidates selected will be medically examined under Sri Lanka Air Force arrangements) and
if applicable Flying Aptitude Tests. Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be called for the Final
Interview. The required number of candidates per branch will be selected according to merit at these interviews and
tests.
(j) A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He /She is provided with furnished accommodation and food.
Batman Service will be provided. A single Officer’s Ration Allowance and Batman Allowance are paid to the Mess.
(k) A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable to public
servants.
(l) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
(m) All Officers are governed by the Air - Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
7. Official Language Requirements.–  The selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions
the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) Consolidated pay rate.– The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Officer Cadets and Commissioned Ranks shall be
as follows :–
Officer Cadet - Rs.l87,620 p.a. ;
Pilot Officer - Rs. 242,700 p.a. ;
Flying Officer - Rs.275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a. ;
Flight Lieutenant - Rs.321,660 - 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a. ;
Squadron Leader - Rs.352,620 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a. ;
Wing Commander - Rs.362,100 - 20 x 9,480 - Rs. 551,700 p. a. ;
Group Captain - Rs.441,060 - 18 x 12,600 - Rs. 667,860 p.a. ;
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance of Rs. 6,600 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for those serving in operational areas.
(5) Special enhanced allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs.100 - will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 13,861.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
(10) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Special Allowance 15% of consolidated salary.
(12) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (For Officer, spouse and children).
(13) An additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for Officers living in Messes to travel from
the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(14) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
230
(15) Free medical facilities (including for families if applicable).
(16) Married Officers permitted to live-out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work within
30 miles radius.
(17) Flying pay for those in the General Duties Pilot Branch.
(18) Rent allowances for married Officers not in occupation of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
9. Pensions/Gratuities:- Payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to time.
All Officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Force) Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows a nd
Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
10. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant’s own hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages of
the application should be completed neatly with as much details as possible. Applications should be forwarded under
registered cover to “COMMAND  RECRUITING OFFICER, SRI LANKA  AIR FORCE, EKALA, KOTUGODA”
so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 22nd February, 2013. The envelope enclosing the application should
be marked “APPLICATION FOR CADETSHIP/LADY CADETSHIP IN THE ............................ BRANCH”. A
candidate will be allowed to apply for only one branch, those who apply for more than one branch the applications
will be rejected. Applications received after the closing date and not in accordance with the requirements of this
notification and not in registered post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their applications
through their Heads of Department/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate to the
effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interviews or
when called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificates in support of the educational qualifications required for the branch applied for.
(3) Certificates of trade/technical training and/or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the Principal of the last school attended and the
other from a responsible person who has the know of the applicant for more than two years or from the present
employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadeting etc.
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after selection.
12. Selection Interviews etc. :–
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates so selected
will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final selection will
then be made after an interview of those selected candidates by a selection board appointed by the Ministry of
Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
Travelling or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
231
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he / she is to produce his / her National Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board.
(e) Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his / her testimonial. Any form of canvassing
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
HD ABEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo 02.
APPLICATION  FOR  OFFICER  CADET/LADY OFFICER CADET IN THE ................................
BRANCH OF THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
1. Nationality :–––––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate).
2. Full name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––––––––––.
3. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
4. Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
5. Postal address :–––––––––––––.
6. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
(Age as at 01st July, 2013) :
Years :–––––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––––.
7. Height :––––––' –––––––".
8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––––.
9. District :–––––––––––––.
10. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
11. GS Division :–––––––––––––.
12. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
13. Married or Single :–––––––––––––.
14. Gender :–––––––––––––.
15. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications obtained :
Name of School/University Type of Examination Year of Examination Subjects passed (including grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Other

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
232
16. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if applicable) :
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From                  To
17. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present address
Father
Mother
18. Any special qualification for the post :––––––––––––.
19. Details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. and standards/
levels achieved) :––––––––––––.
20. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside organizations (Give details with dates / years etc.) :–––––– –––.
21. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :––––––––––––.
22. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :––––––––––––.
23. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :––––––––––––.
24. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public Sector / Board / Corporation (including the Central Bank, National
Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :––––––.
25. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
26. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :–
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
I have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates wh o
are selected for Commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
27. Declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant :
(a) I am the Parent / Guardian of ....................... who is an applicant for a Cadetship in the Sri Lanka Air Force and who h as
signed the declaration in Cage 26 of the form of application above.
(b) I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above-named applicant being selected for a course of training for the
following :–
(1) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above-named applicant voluntarily terminating his / her
candidature for a Commission during his/her period of training all expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic
of Sri Lanka on account of such applicant.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
233
(2) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above-named applicant reported on by the authorities as
being unsuitable (For reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/her own control) for the issue of a Commission
all the expenses incurred on his/her account by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Parent/Guardian.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name  :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of First Witness.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name  :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Second Witness.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
02–483
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
SRI  LANKA  SURVEY  DEPARTMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post
of Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey
Department - 2013
THE Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Post of
Apprentice Surveyors in the Department of Survey, Sri Lanka will
be held only in Colombo in May 2013 by the Commissioner General
of Examinations. The date of examination will be notified through
newspapers in due course.
Applications are invited for the above posts from both male and
female candidates who comply with the following qualifications.
02. Eligibility :-
(i) Every candidate must furnish proof that he/she -
(a) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Is of excellent moral character ;
(c) Is not less than 22 years and not more than 33 years of
age on the closing date of application.
(ii) Educational Qualifications.– All candidates should have
the following educational qualifications :–
Should have a degree in Surveying Science or a B Sc. Degree
with Mathematics or Physics as a subject or a B Sc. Degree
in Computer Science (Should have passed the G . C. E.
Advanced Level with Maths/Combined Maths/Advanced
Mathematics a subject) or a Degree in Civil Engineering,
obtained from a recognized university or an institution
recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Note.– Any person who is waiting for degree results could
not apply for this examination. However, a person
who has passed a degree of recognized University and
awaiting for the certificate can be permitted to sit for
the examination provided he/she submits an official
letter attached with application form from the Registrar
of relevant University stating to that effect.
03. Conditions of Services :–
Salary :
(i) The consolidated monthly salary assigned to this post is
as follows :
P. A. Circular No. 06/2006(IV) – MN – 5 2006A
Rs. 16,720 - 10 x 320 - 11 x 365 - 15 x 450 - Rs. 30,685.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(iii) Confirmation in Service :
(a) Surveying Science Graduates appointed to the post
of Apprentice Surveyors will be appointed to Class
II/II of Sri Lanka Surveyors' Service and conferred

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
234
with permanent status of service after a net total of
4 years satisfactory service in the Department,
including the successful completion of training in
Department matters.
(b) Graduates with B. Sc. Degree with Mathematics or
Physics as a subject or a B. Sc. Degree in Computer
Science or a Degree in Civil Engineering, appointed
to the post of Apprentice Surveyors will be
appointed to Class II/II of Sri Lanka Surveyors'
Service and conferred with permanent status of
service after a net total of 6 years satisfactory service
including the successful completion of Surveying
Degree and training.
(iv) The candidates selected for appointments should present
themselves to a medical examination by a Government
Medical Officer in Government Hospital with a view to
it being ascertained whether they are physically fit to
serve in any part of the Island.
(v) Attention of the applicants is drawn to the general
conditions applicable to appointments to the Posts in
the Pubilc Service published in Part I : Section (IIA) of
this Gazette.
04. Procedure of Examination. – The recuitment examination
consists of the following 3 question papers :–
01. Comprehension - 50 marks 2 hour paper.
02. Intelligence - 150 marks 01 hour 15 minute
paper.
03. General Knowledge - 150 marks 03 hour paper.
Total - 350 marks
Comprehension paper. – This paper will consist of questions
given in the form of short passages. Candidates are expected to
summarize some of the passages into one sentence. Knowledge of
grammar pertaining to some underlined words will be tested. There
would be multiple questions on some passages and candidates are
expected to select the best suited answer.
Some passages will carry comprehension questions based on
multiple choice methods. Questions are framed so as to test the
candidate's power of understanding. In addition there will be a long
passage for précis writing. This question paper is of two hour duration.
All questions must be answered.
Intelligence.– This paper is framed with the objective of testing
the candidate's power of rational thinking, power of analysis and
decision making. This will be a multiple choice question paper. The
question paper is of one hour and 15 minute duration. All questions
must be answered.
General Knowledge.– There will be questions to test candidate's
knowledge about the current Political, Social, Cultural, Economic
and Environmental matters of both national and international
importance. This is a choice of questions. The question paper is of
3 hour duration.
Note :-
(i) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
mediums.
(ii) Marks will be deducted for bad hand writing and spelling
mistakes. Also those candidates having bad hand writing
may be deemed to be ineligible for sitting the examination.
(iii) Admission cards will be sent to the applicants by the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The issue of an
admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean
that he or she has the requisite qualifications to sit for
the examination.
05. Method of Selection .– Under the minute of the Sri Lanka
Surveyors' Service, amendment by Extraordinary Gazette notification
No. 1,675/20 dated 12.10.2010, the candidates will be called for an
interview on the merit order of the total marks 40% or above for each
paper at the open competitive examination and also depending on
the number of existing vacancies. No marks will be allotted in the
interview and only the marks secured at the examination will be
taken into consideration.
06. Every candidate must have complied with all the necessary
qualifications required for this post before the closing date of
application for the examination.
07. Procedure of Application :
(i) Specimen  Application Form.–
Specimen Application Form provided at the end of this
notification should be followed in applying for this post
and applicants should prepare their applications in the
medium in which they appear for the examination. Also,
applications should be filled by the applicants in their
own hand-writing. The name of the examination
mentioned at the top should be indicated in English in
the Sinhala medium applications in addition to Sinhala
while in the Tamil medium applications, the name of the
examination should be indicated in English in addition to
Tamil. Every section of the application should be
perfected strictly in accordance with the instructions
given therein. Applicants should indicate "not applicable"
in any section which is not applicable to them. Applicants
should strictly keep in mind that any application with
blank columns is liable to be rejected. All applications
which do not conform to the specimen application form
and incomplete applications will be rejected without
notice. It will be useful for the candidates to retain a
photo-copy of the application submitted. Further the
applicant should make sure that the application to be
filled by him/her is in accordance with the specimen
application form mentioned in this notification. If not,
the application is liable to be rejected. (Applications
should be prepared according to the annexed form on a
A4 size paper and the cages No. 1.0 to 7.0 should appear
on the front page and No. 8.0 to 12.0 appear on the
second page.)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
235
(ii) Completed applications should be sent by registered
post to reach "The Commissioner General of
Examinations, Sri Lanka Department of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla" on or before 15th March, 2013.
Applications received after the closing date will be
rejected. The name of the Examination should be written
on the left hand corner of the cover containing the
application.
(iii) The examination fee of Rs. 1,000 should be paid to any
District Survey Office or Surveyor General's Office in
Credit of General Deposit Account No. 15/143 of Survey
Department and the cash receipt firmly affixed to the
relevant place of the application. It is desirable to retain
a copy of the cash receipt.
(iv) Candidates presently employed under the Government
Departments/Boards/Corporations etc. should forward
their applications through the respective Heads of
Departments. As such applicants should hand over their
applications to their Heads of Departments well in time
to be transmitted to the Commissioner General of
Examinations so as to reach him on or before 15th March,
2013. Applications should not be sent to the personal
name of Surveyor General or any other departmental
officer. Applications sent through the Heads of
Departments will not also be received after the closing
date. The candidates applying from government service
must get the signature and official frank of the Head of
Department/Institution placed in the application for
attestation, without which the application will be rejected.
(v) Attestation.– Candidate's identity should be certified by
in the case of a candidate from the government service,
the Head of the respective Department or any other
authorized officer, or in the case of other candidates, a
Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-
Law or Notary Public, Head of Government School or
School under the control of a Director, a Commissioned
Officer of Army, Navy or Air Force, a permanent
Government Staff Officer in receipt of an consolidated
monthly salary of Rs. 22,935 or above, the Incumbent
of Buddhist Vihara or a Nayaka Buddhist Monk, the
Incumbent of a place of worship of any other religion or
a religious dignitary of standing of any other religion.
08. Admission to the Examination.– The Commissioner General
of Examinations will issue admission cards for the examination to
each applicant whose applications have been received. Applicants
appearing for the examination must get the admission cards attested
in advance and produce them to the supervisor of the examination
center. A candidate without such a admission card will not be
permitted to sit for the examination.
Every candidate should sit for the examination only at the
Examination Hall stipulated to him/her. No any candidate who enters
any other examination hall other than the one assigned to him/her
will be permitted to sit for the examination. A candidate appearing
the examination should handover his/her admission card to the
supervisor on the commencing day of examination itself. The general
conditions applicable to the candidates have been published in Part
I : Section (IIA) of this Gazette. Candidates are bound to act in
conformity with such conditions. A notification will be published in
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at
the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. certified
photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at your
possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the
admission card should be sent.
The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit the
examination. All candidates are bound to abide by the rules enforced
by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the
conducting of examination. A candidate who violates any of such
rules is liable to punishment imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations.
09. Identification of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they appear. For this purpose, any of the
following documents will be accepted :–
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any
one of the above mentioned documents is liable to be cancelled at the
discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Documents pertaining to the Qualifications :
(i) No any other document except the cash receipt should
be sent along with the application. But all the necessary
particulars as stipulated should be included in the
application. All the applications should be completed in
all respects but any incomplete application will be
rejected.
(ii) Candidates who are qualified to be called for an interview
should prove their eligibility by producing documentary
evidence at the interview.
(iii) The originals of the following documents should be
produced :–
(a) A certificate of good character obtained from a
responsible person.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
236
Note.– This should be from a Justice of Peace, Attorney-
at-law, Divisional Secretary of the area in which the
applicant resides or a Permanent Government
Officer in receipt of an consolidated monthly salary
of Rs. 22,935 or above, or any Notable from whom
information can directly be obtained. Also the Name
of Attestor, Designation and Address should be
clearly mentioned in it.
Applicants holding permanent posts in the government service
need not furnish the certificate of good character.
(a) A certified copy of register of Birth or (in the case of
applicants whose births have not been registered) a
presumed certificate of age issued by the Registrar General.
Note.–
(i) Special Certificates of birth issued for the purpose of
using in schools or educational activities or certified
extracts from register of birth will not be accepted.
(ii) Affidavits or Baptismal certificates will not be accepted
instead of a birth certificate. If there is any discrepancy
between name/names on the birth certificate and name/
names in normal usage in which the applicant appears
for the examination, immediate action should be taken
to get the name/names on the applicant's birth certificate
rectified appropriately in terms of the conditions
stipulated in No. 27 or 28 (Chapter 110) of Births and
Deaths Registration Act.
(iii) A certificate of Sri Lankan citizenship by registration or
a letter of proof accepted by the government that the
applicant has been a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent. (as
appropriate).
(iv) Originals of educational qualifications or if the
certificates have not been issued, any other official
document to that effect namely.
(v) An official document issued by the registrar of a relevant
university to the effect that the applicant has passed
his/her final degree examination.
(vi) Applicants are advised to have their necessary
documents ready when applying for this post. If any
candidate fails to submit necessary documents or delays
in submitting such documents whenever requested, he/
she will be made ineligible for appointment to this post.
11. Furnishing false information.– In terms of the conditions of
this examination, if a candidate is found to be unqualified to sit for
this examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled prior to
this examination, during the course of examination or subsequent to
the examination or at anytime thereafter. During the service of any
candidate, if he/she is found to have suppressed any important
information, or furnished any false information knowingly, or
confirmed to have not complied with necessary requirements to
have appeared for this examination, that alone will be sufficient
ground for his/her immediate dismissal from service.
The candidature of any applicant who has not duly fulfilled the
necessary requirements of this notification willbe cancelled.
12. Any matter not covered by these conditions will be determined
at the discretion of Surveyor General.
S. M. W. F
ERNANDO,
Surveyor General,
Sri Lanka Surveyor Department.
No. 150, Kirula Road,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
S
RI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO
THE POST OF APPRENTICE SURVEYORS IN THE SRI LANKA SURVEY
DEPARTMENT – 2013
(For office use only)
1.0 Medium of Language in which you are appearing for the exam :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
2.0 Name :
2.1 Name with initials :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals eg. : SILV A, A. B.)
2.2 Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
2.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
3.0 Address :
3.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
3.2 Permanent address :–––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
3.3 Office Address :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals, if applicable)
3.4 Postal Address :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
4.0 4.1 Sex :
 Male - 0, Female - 1
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
237
4.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date
4.3 Age on 15.03.2013 :
Years Months Days
5.0 Nationality :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3
Muslim - 4
Other - 5
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
6.0 6.1 Degree obtained :
Degree in B. Sc. Physical Science
(with Mathematics as a subject) - 1
B. Sc. Degree in Computer Science - 2
Degree in Civil Engineering - 3
(indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
6.2 G . C. E. (A/L) - year passed exam :––––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––––.
Subjects got through :––––––––––.
7.0 National Identity Card No. :
Date issued :––––––––––.
8.0 (i) Date of Graduation :                      ––––––––––.
(ii) University/Institution :––––––––––.
(iii) Number of Registration, Date :––––––––––.
(iv) External/Internal :––––––––––.
(v) Degree :––––––––––.
(vi) Subjects :––––––––––.
(vii) The class obtained :                      ––––––––––.
(viii) Upper/Lower :––––––––––.
(ix) Index No. :––––––––––.
(x) Medium of Language in which you appeared for the exam
:––––––––––.
9.0. Affix the cash receipt firmly. Please keep a photocopy of the
receipt.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
10.0. Certificate of the candidate :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
that the cash receipt No. .................. dated ............... for the
payment of admission fee to the ................. District Survey
Office/Surveyor General's Office has been affixed hereto. Further
I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this examination,
and if I am found to be ineligible according to the conditions of
this examination, I agree to any decision taken to cancel my
candidature prior to the examination, while holding the
examination or subsequent to it.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
11.0. Attestation of candidate's signature (should be as per the para
No. 07) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............................ (full
name) who is submitting this application is personally known
to me and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence
on .....................
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :––––––––––.
Full name of Attestor :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
12.0. Certificate of the Head of the Department (only if applicable)
:
I declare that the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................... is
an officer serving in this Department/Corporation/Board,
working as a ......... from......... and has earned all his/her
increment and has not been subjected to any disciplinary action
within service period and I also agree to release him/her from
the post he/she hold in the event of being selected.
Other comments :–––––––––––––.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
02–393
––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  GERMAN  RAILWAY  TECHNICAL
TRAINING  CENTRE  -  RATHMALANA
Admission of Apprentices – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens (male/female)
possessing minimum qualifications stipulated in pragraph 02 herein
for admission of apprentices to the Sri Lanka - German Railway
Technical Training Centre for 2013.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
238
02. Minimum Qualifications :–
(a) Should be between 16-25 years as at 30.04.2013 ;
(b) Educational Qualifications .– Passing 06 subjects at the
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination including Sinhala/
Tamil Language, Mathematics and Science in not more
than two sittings. It is necessary to posses educational
qualifications completely before 30.04.2013 and passing
of five (05) subjects in first sitting.
03. Training Courses .– The apprentices selected for training
will be given the opportunity to follow the professional course
subject to the period relevant to the profession. Medium of
examination will be only in Sinhala. 25 persons for each of the
following course will be selected :–
(i) Diesel Engine Mechanic 2 1/2 years
(ii) Welder 03 years
(iii) Electrician (Power) 03 1/2 years
(iv) Mechanic setter (General) 03 1/2 years.
04. Applications.– Applicants should indicate their particulars
correctly in the application forms prepared in a typing sheet (A4
size). Incomplete applications will be rejected.
05. Selection for the Courses :
(1) Only the applicants with the required minimum
qualifications and who have paid examination fees
mentioned in para. 07 will be called for the written test.
There will be a practical test as well.
(2) The written test will be based on Mathematics, Basic
Technical Knowledge and General Knowledge. The
candidates who have scored the highest marks at the
written test will be summoned for the practical/interview
test under each course.
(3) Selection for each course will be made on the results of
the highest aggregate marks obtained both at the written
and practical test.
06. Medium of Examination .– Medium of examination will be
Sinhala/Tamil and English.
07. Examination Fees.– Non refundable Rs. 500 will be charged
for the examination. This amount can be paid by money order
written in favour of the General Manager of Railways indicating
the paying office as Maradana Post Office and the receipt of the
money order should be attached to the application. The applications
without money order will be rejected. Please note that inability to
appear for the examination or under any circumstances the
examination fees will not be refunded.
08. Examination Centres. – In respect of applicants who have
satisfied all the requirements, a written test will be held in Colombo
centre only.
09. Signing of Agreement.– All applicants selected for training
in the institution should enter in to an agreement with the national
apprentices and Technical Training Institute and the Department
of Railways that follow the training course successfully during the
period relevant to the course.
10. The apprentices will be paid a monthly allowance during the
period of training by the apprentices and Technical Training
Authority.
11. The Department is not bound to give employment to the
apprentices after training.
12. The application forms prepared according to the specimen
form given below should be sent to the Director Sri Lanka - German
Railway Technical Training Centre, Kaldemulla Road, Rathmalana
by Registered Post, ‘SLGRTT/2013’ should be indicated on the
top left hand corner of the envelope.
13. Closing Date of Applications.– Applicants will be entertained
up to 30.05.2013. The applications received late will be rejected.
B. A. P. A
RIY ARATHNA,
General Manager of Railways.
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Sri Lanka Railways,
Colombo 10.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
R
ECRUITMENT OF APPRENTICES TO SRI LANKA – GERMAN RAILWAY
TECHNICAL TRAINING CENTRE – 2013
For office use only
01. Full name (with surname) (In Sinhala and English) :–––––––.
02. Address (Sinhala) :–––––––––.
(English) :–––––––––.
03. District :–––––––––.
04. Date of birth :–––––––––.
05. Sex : Male/Female :–––––––––.
06. Telephone No. :––––––––––.
07. Educational qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L)
First sitting :–––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––.
Subjects Grade
1. ............................... ..............................
2. ............................... ..............................
3. ............................... ..............................
4. ............................... ..............................
5. ............................... ..............................
6. ............................... ..............................
7. ............................... ..............................
8. ............................... ..............................
9. ............................... ..............................
10. ............................... ..............................

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
239
Second sitting : Index No. :–––––––.
Subjects Grade
1. ............................... ..............................
2. ............................... ..............................
3. ............................... ..............................
4. ............................... ..............................
5. ............................... ..............................
6. ............................... ..............................
7. ............................... ..............................
8. ............................... ..............................
9. ............................... ..............................
10. ............................... ..............................
07. Medium preferred by the candidate to appear for the exam :
––––––––––.
08. Indicate in order two courses you wish to follow in terms of
the notification :
1. .......................
2. .......................
09. Money Order No. ..................... obtained after making a
payment of Rs. 500 to the post office is attached.
10. I certify that the fore giving particulars contained in this
application are true and accurate. Further, I am aware that if
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or
incorrect. I am liable to disqualification if any discrepancy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if detected
after the appointment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––.
02–520
–––––––––––––––
SPECIAL  LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION
FOR  FILLING  GRADE   III  VACANCIES  OF
THE   SRI   LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE
 IN  THE NORTHERN  AND  EASTERN
PROVINCES -  (2012/2013)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the eligible citizens of Sri Lanka
for the Special Limited Competitive Examination to fill the
vacancies of Grade III of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service in the
Northern and Eastern Provinces.
In this notice "Service" means the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service
(S.L. Ac. S.)
1. Date of Examination. – Examination will be held in  2013
April in Colombo and in Jaffna by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The Public Service Commission reserves the right
to   postpone/cancel  the Examination. The Commissioner General
of Examinations reserves the right to hold the examination and issue
results, and his decision shall  be deemed final.
2.  Number of  Persons to be appointed and Effective Date of the
Appointment :- To be determined by  the orders of the Public Service
Commission.
3.  Conditions of  Service.– A selected candidate will be appointed
to the Grade III of Sri Lanka   Accountants’ Service subject to
general conditions of governing appointment of the  Public Service,
conditions prescribed in the Minute of the Sri Lanka Accountants’
Service  published in the  Extraordinary Gazette  of  the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  No. 1670/33 dated 10th of September
2010 and the amendments made thereto or  to be made hereafter.
  3.1 The number of vacancies to be filled through this
examination in the Northern and Eastern provinces is 22.
 3.2 Those who are selected should serve at least 10 years in
the Northern and Eastern provinces from the date of
appointment. Failure to do so would result in termination
of their service.
     3.3 Applications of the candidates are liable to be revoked if
the candidates fail to assume duties of the post on the
prescribed date and/or refuse or avoid to assume duties  in
the post or in an area stipulated.
3.4 The officers who are appointed by the Special Examination
should pass Sinhala Language Test within 05 years in
addition to the First Efficiency Bar Examination for the
Officers of Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service. (As per the
provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007)
4.  Structure and Monthly Salary Scales.–
Monthly Salary Scale as per Salary Code SL 1-2006 of the Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006.
Monthly Salary Scale.– SL 1-2006-Rs; 22,935 -10X645- 8X790
– 17X1,050 – Rs. 53,555.
5. 5.1 Experience and Qualifications :
(i) Possession of any of the qualifications setout in para.
5.2(b) above with not less than 5 years of satisfactory,
uninterrupted permanent service in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service on 18.03.2013. (Closing date
of the application) having earned a minimum of 5
increments on the due date ;
or
(ii) Possession of not less than 10 years satisfactory period
of service in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service
in a permanent and pensionable post which carries the
salary scale of MN 1-2006(A) or above having earned
a minimum of 10 increment on the due date.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
240
5.2.  (a)  Educational Qualifications  :
(i) Should possess a Degree in Commerce, Management,
Accountancy or Economics from a University recognized
by the University Grants Commission ;
                                          or
(ii) Should be a holder of a Higher Diploma in Accountancy
or Commerce from the Sri Lanka Technical College or Sri
Lanka Institute of Higher Technical Education;
or
(iii) Should have passed the Intermediate or Licentiate or
Higher Examination of the  Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or an Institute of Chartered
Accountants in any other commonwealth country;
or
(iv) Should have passed the Parts I and II of costs and
management Examination or intermediate or  Higher
Examination conducted by the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants of the United Kingdom or in
any other Commonwealth Country;
or
(v) Should have passed the First Professional Level or Higher
Level Examination of the Institute of Certified Accountants
of the United Kingdom or any other Commonwealth
Country;
or
(vi) Should have passed parts I and II Examination or higher
Level Examination of Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants of United Kingdom or in any other
Commonwealth Country;
or
(vii) Final Examination of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries
and Managers of the United Kingdom.
and
(viii) Should be able to speak Tamil language fluently to perform
duties in the   Northern and Eastern Provinces and should
have passed Tamil language as a main subject at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination.
5.2.  (b)  Other qualifications -   the applicant,
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should be of excellent  moral character.
(iii) All candidates should be physically fit in all aspects
to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
(iv) Should have earned all the increments on the due date
within the immediately preceding 5 years of gaining
eligibility to apply.
(v) Should have completed a satisfactory service period
within immediately preceding five years as at
18.03.2013 (Closing date of the appilcation).
(vi) No candidate will be permitted to sit for the Open
Competitive Examination more than two occasions.
(vii) A person holding priesthood in any of the religious
sects will be ineligible to sit this examination
(viii) A person will be deemed as qualified to sit the
Competitive Examination for  appointment to the
service, if  the candidate has fulfilled necessary
qualification in para 5.1 in all respect as at 18.03.2013
and  copies of certificates in support of qualifications
should be attached to the application.
6.  Examination Fee .– The fee for the Examination is Rs. 300.
This fee should be paid before closing date of applications at a
Divisional Secretariat or District Secretariat  in order  to be credited
to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13. The  receipt issued from the
Divisional Secretariat should be affixed in  the relevant box provided
in the application form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
receipt with the applicants. The fee will not be refunded under any
circumstances.
7.  Method of Application:-
(a) The applications should be prepared strictly in
accordance with the specimen form annexed to this
notification, using both sides of a paper size A4 and
should be filled by the candidate himself.
(b) Item No.  01 to 3.5 of the application should be on the
first page. The application should be in the language in
which the candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
However, the heading should be written in English (Block
Capitals) in addition to the Tamil Language when
preparing the application. Applications not in
conformity with the specimen referred to, incomplete
applications will be rejected without any notice. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the
applicants. The applicant should ascertain whether the
application completed by him/her is in conformity with
the specimen form referred to in the notification of the
examination. Applications not in conformity with the
specimen will be rejected.
(c) The applications for the Examination must be sent by
Registered Post to reach the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla on or before 18.03.2013. It should clearly
written "Special Limited Competitive Examination for
filling Grade III Vacancies of the Sri Lanka Accountants
Service in the Northern and Eastern Provinces -
2012(2013)" on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application. No application received after
that date will be accepted.
Applications will not be acknowledged. Immediately
after admission cards are dispatched to the respective
candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published
by the Examination Department of Sri Lanka. If
candidate does not receive his/her admission card after
02 or 03 days of the publications of notification should
notify immediately to the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla in that respect as
setout in the notice. It would be more effective if you

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
241
send a certified copy of the application and the cash
receipt retained with you, the registered receipt and your
request letter with the fax No. to the Department of
Examination of Sri Lanka in order to send admission card
if you are outside of Colombo.
(d) The post and the working place of the candidate at the
time of applying for the examination are  related to all
the matters pertaining to the examination and any change
in that respect will not be considered after sending
applications.
8.  Admission to the Examination:-
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to every person who has sent a
perfected application after paying the examination fees
before the due date. A candidate presenting himself for
the examination must produce his  Admission Card with
signature certified, to the Supervisor of the Examination
Centre. A candidate, who fails to produce his Admission
Card, will not be permitted to sit the Examination.
(b) The candidate must sit the Examination at the
Examination Hall assigned to him. Every candidate
should hand over his/her Admission Card of the  relevant
examination  hall to the Supervisor of the Examination
Centre on the first day presenting himself for the
examination at the hall. A set of rules to be observed by
all candidates are published in the Gazette.
(c) The issue of an Admission Card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.
(d) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down
in respect of holding the Examination and the decisions
taken in respect of issuing results by the  Commissioner-
General of Examinations.  A candidate who violates any
of those rules is liable to punishment  at the discretion of
the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
09.  Identification of  a Candidate.– A Candidate will be required
to prove his identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of
the Supervisor of the Examination Centre for each subject he offers.
For this purpose one   of the following documents will be accepted.
(a)  A National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons;
(b) A valid passport issued by the Department of
Immigration and Emigration.
10.  Furnishing False Information.– If a candidate is found to be
ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior
to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished
by candidate is found incorrect and has done so within the knowledge
of him or if he has willfully suppressed a material fact, he will be
liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
11.  Any matter not provided in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
12.  Scheme of Examination :
 (i)  Language of Examination:
(a) The Examination will be held only in Tamil medium.
13.  Method of Testing :-
(a) An written examination consisting of  the following
subjects :
Subject No. 01 Financial Accounting Paper I - 3 hours –
100 marks
Subject No. 02 Financial Accounting Paper II - 3 hours –
100 marks
Subject No. 03 Cost and Management Accounting - 3
hours – 100 marks
Subject No. 04 Public Financial Management - 3 hours –
100 marks
Subject No. 05 Auditing and Investigations - 3 hours –
100 marks
Subject No. 06 General Intelligence and Comprehension -
3 hours – 100 marks
Syllabus is given at the end of this notice.
(b) Interview.– Only candidates who secure a minimum of
40% marks in each subject at the written examination will
be  summoned for  the interview. The number of candidates
to be called for the interview will be determined by the
Public Service Commission  in order of merit of the marks
obtained by the candidates  at the written examination and
according to the number of existing  vacancies as the case
may be.
14.  Method of Selection for  Appointment. – Those who have
scored highest marks in order of the merit  at   the written
examination and duly filled the basic qualifications will be selected.
In the event of candidate having tied for a place, the final decision of
selection for such a place will be made by the Public Service
Commission.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
             By order of the Public Service Commission,
P . A. A
BEYSEKERA,
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
On this 15th day of February, 2013.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
242
Special Limited Competitive Examination for filling Grade
III Vacancies of the Sri Lanka Accountants' Service in the
Northern and Eastern Provinces  – 2013
Index No :
(for official use only)
Town in which the applicant sits Town No.
for the examination
Indicate the Town Number in which the applicant sit for the
examination and the number of the same.  (Colombo 1, Jaffna 2)
*It is not allowed to change the town afterwords
Medium of the Examination:
Tamil 3
(Please write relevant number in the cage)
1.0 Name :
1.1. Last Name with Initials: Mr./Mrs./Miss. :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
Eg :  Mr./Mrs./Miss
. SILV A, A.B.
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––.
(Tamil)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
2.0 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(Tamil)
2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
2.2 Official Address :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Male - 0,   Female - 1
(Please write the relevant number)
3.2 Marital Status :
Single - 1 Married - 2
(Please write relevant number)
3.3 National Identity Card No. :
3.4 Date of Birth :
Year :   Month :                Date :
3.5 Age as at 18.03.2013  :
Years :              Months :                   Days:
(Closing date of the application)
4.0 4.1 The qualification obtained to be eligible to sit this
examination under Para 5.1 :––––––––––.
4.2 The institutions from which such qualification has been
obtained :––––––––––.
(a)
Department Post From To Period
(b) (i) Service/Post :––––––––––.
(ii) Class : From :––––––––––. to :––––––––––.
(iii) Class : From :––––––––––. to :––––––––––.
(iv) Total service period the Government as at 18.03.2013.
(Closing date of the application) :
Years :––––––––––. Months :––––––––––.
(a) Service in ii above : Years :––––––––––.
Months :––––––––––.
(b) Service in iii above : Years :––––––––––.
Months :––––––––––.
(v) Annual salary as at 18.03.2013 (Closing date of the
application) :––––––––––.
5.0 5.1 The years in which your have sat the Limited Competitive
Examination for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Accountants'
Service :
Years :
1. ....................
2. ....................
3. ....................
6.0 The cash receipt should be pasted to the application firmly :
(To affix the receipt)
Keep a photocopy of the receipt with candidate
(i) Number :–––––––––.
(ii) Date  :–––––––––.
 (iii) Place of amount  paid :–––––––––.
 (iv) Amount paid : Rs.  :–––––––––.
7.0 Certificate by Candidate :
7.1 I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given in this form is true and that I have affixed
receipt No….. dated …………….. having paid  the
Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules
governing the  examination and any decision that may be
taken to cancel my candidature prior to during or after the
examination if it is found that I am ineligible according to
the regulations of the examination. Further, I agree to abide
by the rules laid down in respect of holding the Examination
and the decisions taken in respect of issuing results by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
7.2 I declare that I have earned all increments (other than the
increment granted under the condition of passing service or
Departmental Examinations) and that I have not been subject

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
243
to any disciplinary punishment (other than warning) within
five years preceding to 18.03.2013 (Closing date of the
application)
––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
8.0 Affirmation of the Head of the Department : The Head of the
Department that maintains your personal file should sign as
the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that ...................... the applicant submitting
this application is serving in this office from ........................ and
his/her work and behavior is satisfactory and personally examined
all the particulars mentioned in above 04 with the records of this
office and found accurate and he/she placed his/her signature before
me on ...................... 2013.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address (Confirmation with a rubber frank) :––––––––––.
Date : :––––––––––.
Note.– Attester should be a Justice of the Peace, Commissioner
of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public or Government
Servant drawing an annual consolidated salary not less than
Rs. 240,360.
APPENDIX I
Particulars of the syllabus regarding Special Competitive
Examinations for filling Grade III vacancies of the Sri Lanka
Accountants’ Service in the Northern and Eastern Province.
The examination will consist of the following examination papers.
No. Subjects Maximum Pass Time
Marks Marks
1 Financial Accountancy -I 100 40 03 hours
2 Financial Accountancy -II 100 40 03 hours
3 Cost and Management 100 40 03 hours
Accountancy
4 Public Financial 100 40 03 hours
Management
5 Auditing and Investigation 100 40 03 hours
6 General Intelligence and 100 40 03 hours
Comprehension
Syllabus:
Subject No. 01 and 02  - Financial Accountancy I and II
Purpose of Financial Accountancy  and users of accounts and
information required by them.
Accounting Principles:
Accounting Equation, Double Entry Book keeping and
Accounting Systems, Prime Entry Books and Ledgers. Trial balance,
Accumulated pre-payments and Adjustments, Capital Expenditure
and income, Depreciations, Suspense Accounts, Correction of
Errors, Control Accounts, Reconciliation Statements, Incomplete
records.
Final Accounts :
Manufacturing Accounts, Trading Profit and Loss Accounts,
Balance Sheet, Fund Flow  Statement and Appropriation Account.
Accounting  for Partnerships:
Partnership Agreements, Book keeping for partnerships, Fixed
Capital Accounts, Current Accounts, Accounting for debts, Drawing
Accounts, Preparation of Final Accounts for Partnerships, Changes
in the composition of a Partnership, Treatment of goodwill and
action on other assets and liabilities in admission of partners and
dissolution of partnerships, Joint ventures.
Accounting for Limited liability Companies:
Nature of Limited liability Companies, Public listed Companies
and Share market/share and loan capital, Distributable profits, Final
Accounts for internal and external use, Defining Statements of
Accounts, Interpretation of financial statements, Accounting ratios.
Accounting for Specialized Transactions:
Societies and associations, consignments, Branches, hire
purchase and credit sale, Leasing, investments, bill  of exchange,
long-term contracts, royalties, container accounts, foreign currency
transactions.
Application of Computers for accounting:
Types of Computer/Hardware and software, Computer
Operating  Software, Electronic Spreadsheets, Computer based
Accounting.
Subject No. 03 – Cost and Management Accounting
Cost Accounting, Financial Accounting and Management
Accounting, Purpose of Cost accounting. Accounting as a
management aid.
Material Cost:
Purchasing procedures, Store Routines, Methods of valuing
material issues, Incentive allowances, and  bonuses.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
244
Labour Cost:
Time keeping, time allocations, methods of remuneration,
payment of incentive allowances and bonuses, Accounting for salaries
and wages.
Overhead Costs :
Allocation and apportionment of costs, Absorption methods,
Overhead administration and distribution, Selling  and  Distributions.
Integrated and non-integrated Accounts.
Cost control account, reconciliation of costs and financial
accounts, integral accounts.
Methods of Costing :
Contract Costing, Job Costing, Departmental Costing, Batch
Costing, Process Costing, Unit Costing, Services Costing, unrealized
profits under different methods of costing.
Marginal Costing :
Contributions/Sales, break-even charts, application of marginal
costing, accounting entries in marginal costing.
Standard Costing :
Standard Costs, actual Costs, basic variances, accounting
procedures.
Budgetary Control:
Functional budgets, master budgets, flexible budgetary control,
continuous budgeting, Operation of budgetary control.
Subject No. 4 - Public Financial Management
Legal framework of Public Finance
The Consolidated Fund, Special Law Expenditure, Contingencies
Fund, Public Debt. Foreign  aid, Fiscal Measures.
The Role of the Parliament, The Minister of Finance, The
Treasury, The Auditor General, Public Accounts Committee,
Committee on Public Enterprises, The Chief Accounting Officer,
Department of National Planning Monetary Board.
The Annual Appropriation Bill.
Budgetary System and Procedures, Annual estimates of Revenue
and Expenditure.
Budget Implementation :
Organizational Structure for the implementation of the budget,
Revenue collection procedures, Imprest for making payments,
Supervision of financial operations, Delegation of functions,
Virement procedure, supplementary estimates, Budgetary control,
Procurement Procedure.
Government Accounting Systems and Procedures
Custody, security and control of Government properties,
Accounting for revenue and other receipts, Accounting for foreign
aid, Accounting for losses, waivers and write-offs.
Review :
Flash reports summary of monthly accounts, Review of financial
and physical performance, the annual appropriation account, The
Auditor General’s  report on the island’s accounts, the report of the
Public Accounts Committee, The report of the Committee on Public
Enterprises.
Subject No. 5. Auditing and Investigation
The nature and objectives of auditing  -  The role of the Auditor
Internal audit, external audit, statutory – in relation to the
Government Departments, Ministries and Corporations under the
Constitution of Sri Lanka and Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 relating
to Non-statutory-under companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 – Auditing
Standards, Auditing Opinions, Auditing concepts, Independence
and other  personal qualities of Auditor, Evidence, Truthfulness
and Fairness, Materialism, Audit Risk, Auditors Responsibilities,
Responsibilities of person subjected to Auditing.
Scope and Limitations
Determining  the Scope, Assumptions and limitations, Role of
Auditing standards and Guidelines.
The role of engagement letters, Management letters and
representation   letters, Basic auditing  methods and Evaluation of
internal control procedures.
Quantity Charts, Questionnaires
Audit Planning and Control
Audit Planning, timing, interim and final audits, assignment of
responsibilities for functions, Audit Control, Recording the work
done including the use of internal control, prepared questionnaires
and forms for evaluation of internal control.
Values, Concepts and Characteristics for financial auditing.
Its relevance to the Public Sector, Analytical auditing.
Auditing   of Computerized Accounting Systems – Auditing
Limited Companies
Statutory books, powers and duties of Directors, Divisional
profits, Appointment of auditors, wages and removals. Action to
be taken before accepting new Auditors,  Powers  and duties of
Auditors.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.02.2013
245
Nature  and  Extent of Inspections :
Compliance  inspections, Independent inspections, Sample
techniques, Balance sheet verifications, Verification of income and
expenditure accounts.
Professional Responsibilities of Auditors and Accountants :
Professional conduct and ethics, legal  rights  and responsibilities,
Legal responsibility of Accountant and Auditor and Law relating to
the subject of knowledge on incidents.
Investigations:
Planning the scope of investigations, Techniques and procedures
to be used, Examples of intention for conducting investigations,
Feasibility studies, Evaluation of business institutions for the
purchase, Sale, Credit rating etc., Accountant’s and Auditor’s reports
for prospectus, Reporting activities, Fraud investigations, Project
evaluations.
Reporting Functions :
Reporting to the management about the weaknesses in the
internal control systems, Special reporting functions relating to
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Government and corporation audits, Reports for the prospectus,
Reports on investigations.
Subject No. 6 – General Intelligence and Comprehension
P
ART  ‘A’
COMPREHENSION
Questions will be asked from candidates based on a passage
given  in the comprehension question paper. Another passage is
given and the candidates have to summarize it to one third of  the
original number of words giving its prime meaning.
P
ART ‘B’
GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
Measuring the candidate’s comprehension and intelligence is
hereby expected through examining  the candidate’s and responses
related to the issues presented in a textual, numeral and pictorial
context. (This is composed of multiple choice and short answer
questions).
02–573