

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
1A
wxl 1840$34 - 2013 foieïn¾ ui 11 jeks nodod - 2013'12'11
No. 1840/34  - WEDNESDAY ,   DECEMBER  11,  2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
MINUTE OF THE PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’ SERVICE
FOLLOWING Minute of the Public Management Assistants’ Service is hereby substituted without any prejudice to any
action taken or purported to be taken in terms of the Minute of the Public Management Assistants’ Service dated 01 January
2004 published in the Gazette Extraordinary No: 1372/23 dated 24 December 2004 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka to be effective from 1
st January 2004 and subsequent amendments made thereto from time to time.
On the order of the Public Service Commission
K.V .P.M.J.GAMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
11th December, 2013.
1. Effective Date : This service minute shall come in to effect from 2
nd April 2013
2. Appointing Authority
Management Assistant Non- technical Multi duty-segment I service category- (Grade III, II, I)
Director General of Combined Services who is empowered by the Public Service Commission
Management Assistant - Supra Grade – service category (Supra Grade)
Public Service Commission
3. Particulars of the Service Category
 3.1 Service Category: Management Assistant Non- technical Multi duty-
  segment I – service category
  Management Assistant -Supra Grade – service category
4— PG 001868

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
2A
                 3.2 Grades :Management Assistant Non- technical Multi duty-
 Segment I
Grade III
Grade II
Grade I
Management Assistant - Supra Grade :   Supra Grade
The Supra Grade shall consist of a scheduled cadre outside the cadre of Grade III, II and I.
Appointments to this grade shall be made through a selection process based on the vacancies
existing in the cadre (Posts of Supra grade are indicated in Annex 01)
3.3 Entrusting Functions:
Functions shall not be entrusted on the grade basis and the Head of the Department/ Institution
shall entrust any function out of the functions entrusted to this service category to an officer
in any grade on exigency of service, based on the seniority and merit.
4. Role of the service:
Functions,which are not technical, but multi-functional in nature and for which specific skills other than the technical
skills are required out of the tasks which are supportive or facilitating to the tasks of officers in executive, management
and administrative levels of the institutions, shall be entrusted to the officers belonging to this service. Accordingly,
the employees belonging to this service shall perform duties out of the tasks of this category which are determined
precisely.
5. Salary
5.1 Salary code number: Grade III, II and I MN – 2-2006-A
Supra Grade             MN – 7-2006-A
5.2 Salary Scale:           Structured Grades of III, II and I
Rs.13,990 -10 x 145 – 11 x 170 – 6 x 240 – 14 x 320 –   23,230
Supra Grade
Rs. 20,030 – 11 x 365 – 18 x 500 – 33,045
5.3 Initial salary step applicable to grade system:
 MN – 2 – 2006 – A
Grade Salary step Salary Point
III Step 01 Rs. 13,990
II Step 12 Rs. 15,610
I Step 23 Rs. 17,550
           MN – 7-2006-A
Grade Salary step Salary Point
Supra Grade Step 02 Rs. 20,395

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
3A
6. Post/ posts belonging to Service category:
6.1     Approved posts and number of approved posts (Shall be as per the approval
                            given by the Director General of Management Services)
Approved Grade to which Salary Code Number of the
Designations the post is approved Approved Posts
Public Management Public Management MN – 2-2006-A 29912
Assistants’ Assistants’ Service
Grade III/II/I
Administrative Public Management MN –07-2006-A 782
Officer/Registrar Assistants’ Service
(Supra Grade)
6.2      Combined number of officers -29912
For the purpose of promotions from grade to grade, all the grades i.e III, II  and I shall be treated as belonging
to the Combined Number of Officers.
6.3     Nature of the post in service – Permanent and Pensionable.
7. Method of recruitment
7.1 Recruitment Ratio
Stream Percentage
Open 70%
Limited 30%
Note :- A number of vacancies of not more than 30% of total vacancies shall be filled by way of promotion of
employees in primary grade of the public service on the results of the Limited Competitive Examination
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the Director General and an interview
for verification of qualification.
If the number of persons eligible for appointment on the results of that examination is less than 30% of the
vacancies, the difference between the 30% and the number of persons eligible for appointment will be met
from the persons eligible at the Open Competitive Examination.
7.2 Recruitment under Open Stream
7.2.1  Grade of Recruitment: Grade III
7.2.2  Qualifications:
          7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications
(a) Shall have passed 06 subjects with credit passes for four subjects including Sinhala /Tamil /
English and Mathematics at the G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination at one sitting.
And
(b) Shall have passed all the subjects in G .C.E. (Advanced Level) at one sitting (except the General
paper). Passing three (03) subjects under the old syllabus at one sitting would be sufficient for
this purpose.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
4A
7.2.2.2   Professional Qualifications : Not Applicable
7.2.2.3   Experience : Not Applicable
7.2.2.4   Physical Fitness
All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to
perform the duties of the post.
7.2.2.5 Other
(i)  Candidates shall be of excellent character
(ii) Shall have satisfied each and every way the qualifications, required for the recruitment to the
      post, mentioned from 7.2.2.up to 7.2.3 on the prescribed date as per the notification/ Gazette.
7.2.2.5.1 Recruitment to the service shall strictly be on a representative basis. A fixed number of
vacancies shall be set apart for each district in proportion to its population. Only the
applicants from a particular district shall be entitled to compete for the vacancies to be
filled in that district.
(i) At the instances where it is not possible to fill the number of vacancies allocated
to a particular district by the qualified candidates applied for the same district, that
number of vacancies shall be re-distributed among all the adjoining districts, in
proportionate to the population of such districts.
(ii) If the total number of posts to be filled is few and the district’s population basis
cannot be applied, selection shall be made in the order of the merit.
(iii) Where the number of candidates who secure the minimum marks required is less
than the number of vacancies available in a district, the district population basis
shall not be applied for selection.
7.2.2.5.2 Eligibility for inclusion in a district.
At least one of the following requirements shall be fulfilled by a candidate to compete for
the vacancies in the district.
(i) The candidate should have been born in the district, or
(ii) He shall have been a permanent resident of the district at least for three continuous
years within the five (05) years immediately preceding the last date to fulfill the
eligibility qualifications for the examination, or
(iii) He shall have received secondary school education within the district for five
continuous years.
Note (i) If the father/mother of any candidate has been employed in a transferable
service of the government or of a Provincial Public Service or of a State Corporation,
then such candidate shall be permitted to choose his father’s/mother’s place of
birth as his district.
(ii) No candidate shall be allowed to compete for vacancies in more than one
district. Once a candidate declares a district of his choice as the most preferred,
when competing under Section 7.2.2.5.2 above, it shall remain irrevocable.
7.2.3 Age
7.2.3.1 Minimum age limit 18 years
7.2.3.2 Maximum age limit 30 years

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
5A
7.2.4 Method of Recruitment: Open Competitive Examination
7.2.4.1 Written Examination
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Language Proficiency 100 40
Aptitude 100 40
(Annex 02)
7.2.4.1.1 Authority for conducting Examination: The Commissioner
General of Examination
7.2.4.2 Professional Test : Not applicable
7.2.4.3 Structured Interview : Not applicable
7.2.4.4 General Interview (No marks shall be allocated)
7.2.5 Method of calling for applications: Applications shall be called through an advertisement published
in the Gazette in all three languages.
7.3 Recruitment under limited stream:
7.3.1 Grade of Recruitm ent: Grade III
7.3.2 Qua lifications
7.3.2.1 Educational qualifications
Shall have passed G C E O/L Examination in not less than 06 subjects including Language/
Literature and Arithmetic/ Pure Mathematics/ Elementary Mathematics/ Commercial
Arithmetic with credit passes for two subjects at one sitting.
7.3.2.2 Professional Qualifications: Not applicable
7.3.2.3 Experience
Shall have completed at least a continuous and satisfactory service of 05 years immediately
preceding the prescribed date, which fact shall be certified by the Head of the Department.
(A training period covered by a candidate prior to  the appointment to a certain post on
permanent basis or a training period which shall have to be completed as a condition for
appointment to a certain post on permanent basis shall not be considered for the  05
years period for satisfying above qualifications. Further the period of service under
casual/temporary basis completed by a candidate before his appointment to a certain
post on permanent basis shall not be considered for the 05 years period for satisfying
above qualifications.)
7.3.2.4 Physical Fitness
All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the
island and to perform the duties of the post.
7.3.2.5 Other:
(i) Shall be officers who are holding permanent posts in public service and receiving
the salary at primary level under salary codes of  PL category  and officers receiving
salary under salary code MN-01-2006 A as per Public Administration Circular No.
06/2006
(ii) Candidates shall be of excellent character

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
6A
(iii) Shall have satisfied all the qualifications required for recruitment to the post as at
date prescribed in the Gazette notification
7.3.3. Method of Recruitment: Limited Competitive Examination
 7.3.3.1 W ritten Examination
Subjects Maximum marks Pass mark
Language ability and 100 40
Qualifying Test for Management
 Assistants
Aptitude 100 40
 (Annex 03)
7.3.3.1.1 Authority for conducting Examination: The Commissioner General of Examination
7.3.3.2. Professional test :  Not applicable
7.3.3.3 Structured interview:  Not applicable
7.3.3.4 General interview: (No marks shall be allocated)
7.3.4 Method of calling for applications: Applications shall be called through an advertisement published
in the Gazette in all three languages.
8. Efficiency Bar
8.1
Efficiency Bar At what point the limit for Nature of the Efficiency Bar
passing  the Efficiency Bar Written/Professional/
expires (number of years) Certificate courses/ other
1
st Efficiency Bar After three years from the date W ritten (Annex 04)
of recruitment to Grade III
2nd Efficiency Bar After three years from the date W ritten (Annex 05)
of promotion to Grade II
3rd  Efficiency Bar After five years from the date Written (Annex 06)
promotion to Grade I
8.2 The Efficiency bar Examination shall be conducted twice every year.
8.3 Authority for conducting Examination: The Commissioner General of Examination
9. Language Proficiency
9.1
Language Proficiency to be satisfied
Official Language Officers who have been appointed to service in a language other than
any official language shall acquire proficiency in one of the official
languages before confirmation in the service.
Other Official Language Proficiency at the relevant level shall be acquired as per Public
Administration Circular 07/2007 and other circulars issued subsequently.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
7A
10. Grade Promotions
10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II
10.1.1 Employees who prove average performance
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
(i) Shall have been confirmed in the post
(ii) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least 10
years in Grade III of the service category  and earned 10 salary increments
(iii) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period
of 10 years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved
performance appraisal procedure.
(iv) Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five years immediately preceding
the date of promotion.
(v) Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.
(vi) Shall have obtained the proficiency in other language at the relevant level.
10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion
When officers who have satisfied the required qualifications make a request     for
promotion to Grade II by using the form given in annex 07, the promotion shall be made
to be effective from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications after verifying
these qualifications by the Director General.
10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1. Employees who prove average performance
10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
(i) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least 10  years in
Grade II of the service category and earned 10 salary increments.
(ii) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of 10
years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance
appraisal procedure.
(iii) Shall have proved a satisfactory period of service within 05 years immediately preceding
the date of promotion.
(iv) Shall have passed the relevant efficiency bar examination on due date
10.2.1.2  Method of Promotion
     When officers who have satisfied the required qualifications make a request for promotion
     to Grade I by using the form given in annex 08, the promotion shall be made to be effective
    from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications, after verifying these
    qualifications by the Director General.
10.3 Promotion to Supra Grade
10.3.1 Promotion on the Limited Competitive Examination
10.3.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
(a) (i) Shall be an officer of Grade I in Service
or
(ii) Shall be an officer in Grade II who has completed at   least an active and satisfactory
service period of not less than 08 years
or

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
8A
 (iii) Shall be an officer in Grade II of the service who has obtained a degree from a
University recognized by the University Grants Commission
(b) Shall have completed a satisfactory service period of five (05) years immediately preceding
the date of promotion.
10.3.1.2 Method of Promotion
Appointments to a number of vacancies of not more than 35% of the total vacancies in Supra Grade
shall be made on the results of a limited competitive examination. The candidates who have satisfied
the qualifications shall be appointed after verifying their qualifications by an interview board appointed
by the Public Service Commission. The interview shall strictly be for examination of the certificates
by which the qualifications of the candidates are proved and no marks shall be allocated in this
regard. (Syllabus and the marking scheme is given in Annex 09)
10.3.2 Promotion on Merit
10.3.2.1 Qualifications to be satisfied
 (i) Shall be an officer who have completed an active and satisfactory service period of at
least five (05) years in Grade I as at prescribed date.
(ii) Shall have completed satisfactory service period of five (05) years immediately preceding
the date of promotion.
10.3.2.2  Method of Promotion
Appointments equivalent to 65% of the total vacancies in Supra Grade shall be made on
merit. For this purpose, priority shall be determined on the order of the aggregate of
marks of an Aptitude Test conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on
behalf of the Public Service Commission and marks allocated on the basis of seniority
and experience by the board appointed by the Commission. Candidates shall appear for
an interview held by a board appointed by the Commission for verification of
qualifications. No marks shall be allocated at that interview.  (Annex 10)
Note-
The date of promotion of the officers, who are unable to pass the efficiency bar on due date for the
purpose of promotion under average performance, shall be delayed by a period similar to the period
obtained by the officer for passing the same.
11. Appointment to posts :   Not applicable
12. Conditions applicable to the service:
12.1 Conditions for confirmation in service
12.1.1 An officer appointed to Grade III of service by an open competitive examination shall be
subjected to a probation period of three years. If the Head of the Department is satisfied
himself to the effect that the officer has passed the first efficiency bar examination conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations and that the work, conduct and attendance of
the officer are satisfactory, it shall be informed to the Director General by the end of the three
years and thereafter the appointment of the officer shall be confirmed if the Director General is
satisfied in this regard.
12.1.2 An officer recruited to Grade III of the service by the limited competitive examination shall be
subjected to an acting period of one year from the date of appointment. The appointment of the
officer shall be confirmed if the appointing authority is satisfied that the officer’s work, conduct
and attendance during the period of acting are satisfactory. However, such officer shall complete
first efficiency bar within three years from the date of appointment.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
9A
12.1.3Every appointment is given subject to the condition that the appointee should be ready to
serve in any part of the island and further to prove by a medical test that the officer is physically
fit for the service in any part of the island .
13. Definitions and Interpretations
13.1 The term “Service Minute” shall mean the Minute on the Public Management Assistants’ Service.
13.2 “Secretary” shall mean the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Public Administration.
13.3 “Director General” shall mean the Director General of Combined Services.
13.4 “Service” shall mean the Public Management Assistants’ Service.
13.5 “Commission” shall mean the Public Service Commission.
13.6 “Period of Satisfactory Service” shall mean a period of service during which the officer has earned all
increments required to be earned by the officer during that period by way of performing the duty of
a Public Officer efficiently and diligently and passing all efficiency bars prescribed and further
satisfying all the qualifications prescribed for the confirmation in service and no any punishable
offence committed by the officer
13.7 “Period of Active Service” shall mean the actual period served by the officer engaged in the duties
assigned to him and drawing the salary attached to his post. However, all the periods on No Pay other
than Maternity Leave approved by the government shall not be counted for the period of active
service.
13.8 The “Gazette” shall mean the Gazette published by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Absorption in to Grade System:
Methodology for absorption of officers serving at present to new grade system is given in Annex 11.
15. Interim Provisions
1. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade III
(i) Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar prescribed for officers in Grade III in the service
minute implemented before the new service minute is enforced, but either passed or been exempted
from one or several subjects of the examination i.e (I) Office Systems (2) Accounting Systems and (3)
Computer Test shall be exempted from the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination on the basis of
subject by subject prescribed by this service minute for the officers in Grade III.
2. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade II
(i) Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar prescribed for officers in Grade II in the service
minute implemented before the new service minute is enforced, but either passed or been exempted
from one or both subjects of the examination i.e (I) Office Systems (2) Accounting Systems shall be
exempted from the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination on the basis of subject by subject
prescribed by this service minute for the officers in Grade II.
(ii) Officers who have been promoted to Grade II 
before the effective date of this service minute shall
pass the efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade II before the lapse of six years from the date
of promotion to Grade II.
3. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade I
(i) Officers who have earned five salary increments on completion of an active and satisfactory service
of five years after promotion to Grade I before the implementation of this service minute shall be
exempted from the requirement of passing the efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade I under
this service minute.
5— PG 01868

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
10A
(ii) A period of concession of five years from the effective date of this service minute shall be given to
the officers, who have not earned five salary increments on completion of an active and satisfactory
period of five years from the date of promotion to Grade I, even though they have been promoted to
Grade I before the implementation of this service minute, to pass the relevant efficiency bar examination
prescribed for Grade I under this service minute.
16. Matters not provided for in the Minute shall be determined by the Public Service Commission.
Annex 01
Serial Institution Post Approved Cadre
Number
1. Presidential Secretariat Administrative Officer 3
2. Prime Minister’s Office Administrative Officer 1
3. Secretariat for Senior Ministers Administrative Officer 1
4. Office of the Cabinet of Ministers Administrative Officer 1
5. Office of the Public Service Commission Administrative Officer 2
6. Judicial Service Commission Administrative Officer 1
7. National Police Commission Administrative Officer 1
8. Commission to investigate Allegations Administrative Officer 1
 of Bribery or Corruption
9. Office of the Finance Commission Administrative Officer 1
10. National Education Commission Administrative Officer 1
11. Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka Administrative Officer 1
12. Attorney General’s Department Administrative Officer 3
13. Department of Legal Draftsman Administrative Officer 1
14. Office of the Leader of the House Administrative Officer 1
 of Parliament
15. Office of the Chief Government Whip Administrative Officer 1
 of Parliament
16. Office of the Leader of the Opposition Administrative Officer 1
 of Parliament
17. Department of Election Administrative Officer 4
18. Department of Auditor General Administrative Officer 3
19. Ombudsman Administrative Officer 2
20. Ministry of Finance & Planning Administrative Officer 1
21. Department of National Planning Administrative Officer 1
22. Department of Fiscal Policy Administrative Officer 1
23. Department of External Resources Administrative Officer 1
24. Department of National Budget Administrative Officer 1
25. Department of Public Enterprises Administrative Officer 1
26. Department of Management Services Administrative Officer 1
27. Department of Trade, Tariff & Administrative Officer 1
 Investment Policy

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
11A
Serial Institution Post Approved Cadre
Number
28. Department of Public Finance Administrative Officer 1
29. Department of Inland Revenue Administrative Officer 3
30. Department of Sri Lanka Customs Administrative Officer 4
31. Department of Excise Administrative Officer 2
32. Department of Import and Export Control Administrative Officer 1
33. Department of Treasury Operation Administrative Officer 1
34. Department of State Accounts Administrative Officer 1
35. Department of V aluation Administrative Officer 1
36. Department of Census and Statistics Administrative Officer 1
37. Department of Project Management & Administrative Officer 1
 Monitoring
38. Ministry of Justice Administrative Officer 1
39. Department of Government Analyst’s Administrative Officer 1
40. Office of the Secretary Labour Tribunals Administrative Officer 1
41. Ministry of Parliament Af fairs Administrative Officer 1
42. Ministry of Port & Highways Administrative Officer 3
43. Ministry of Telecommunication & Administrative Officer 1
 Information Technology
44. Ministry of Transport Administrative Officer 1
45. Department of Sri Lanka Railways Administrative Officer 3
46. Department of Motor Traffic Administrative Officer 3
47. Ministry of Mass media & Information Administrative Officer 1
48. Department of Government Information Administrative Officer 1
49. Department of the Government Printer Administrative Officer 4
50. Ministry of Civil Aviation Administrative Officer 1
51. Ministry of Postal Services Administrative Officer 1
52. Ministry of Economic development Administrative Officer 3
53. Department of National Zoological Administrative Officer 1
 Gardens –Dehiwala
54. Department of National Zoological Administrative Officer 1
 Gardens - Pinnawala
55. Department of National Botanical Gardens Administrative Officer 1
56. Department of the Commissioner General Administrative Officer 1
 of Samurdhi
57. Ministry of Agriculture Administrative Officer 1
58. Department of Agriculture Administrative Officer 37
59. Ministry of Coconut Development & Administrative Officer 1
 Janatha Estate Development
60. Ministry of Agrarian Services & Wildlife Administrative Officer 1

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
12A
61. Department of Agrarian Development Administrative Officer 10
62. Department of Wildlife  Conservation Administrative Officer 1
63. Ministry of Land & Land Development Administrative Officer 1
64. Department of Land Commissioner General Administrative Officer 2
65. Department of Survey Generals Administrative Officer 1
66. Department of Land Use Policy & Planning Administrative Officer 1
67. Ministry of Irrigation & Water Resources Administrative Officer 1
 Management
68. Department of Irrigation Administrative Officer 19
69. Ministry of Fisheries & Aquatic Resources Administrative Officer 1
70. Department of Fisheries & Aquatic Resources Administrative Officer 1
71. Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Administrative Officer 1
 Development
72. Department of Animal Production & Health Administrative Officer 2
73. Ministry of Plantation Industries Administrative Officer 1
74. Department of Rubber Development Administrative Officer 4
75. Ministry of Minor Export Crop Promotion Administrative Officer 1
76. Department of Export Agriculture Administrative Officer 3
77. Ministry of Water Supply & Drainage Administrative Officer 2
78. Ministry of Construction, Engineering Administrative Officer 1
 Service, Housing and Common Amenities
79. Department of Building Administrative Officer 1
80. Department of Government Factory Administrative Officer 1
81. Department of National Physical Planning Administrative Officer 1
82. Ministry of Environment Administrative Officer 1
83. Department of Forest Administrative Officer 7
84. Ministry of Power and Energy Administrative Officer 1
85. Ministry of Petrolium  Industries Administrative Officer 1
86. Ministry of Industry & Commerce Administrative Officer 1
87. Department of Commerce Administrative Officer 1
88. Department of Registrar of Companies Administrative Officer 1
89. National Intellectual Property Office Administrative Officer 1
 of Sri Lanka
90. Department of Textile Industries Administrative Officer 1
91. Ministry of Co-operatives and Internal Trade Administrative Officer 1
92. Department of Measurement Unit, Standards Administrative Officer 1
 & Services
93. Department of Food Commissioner Administrative Officer 1
94. Department of Co-operative Development Administrative Officer 1
Serial Institution Post Approved Cadre
Number

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
13A
95. Co-operative Employees Commission Administrative Officer 1
96. Ministry of State Resources & Enterprise Administrative Officer 1
  Development
97. Ministry of Traditional Industries &Small Administrative Officer 1
 Enterprise Development
98. Ministry of Public Administration & Home Administrative Officer 8
 Affairs
99. Department of Pension Administrative Officer 4
100. Department of Register General’s Administrative Officer 1
101. Ministry of Local Government & Administrative Officer 1
 Provincial Councils
102. Ministry of External Affairs Administrative Officer 2
103. Ministry of Defence Administrative Officer 3
104. Sri Lanka Army (Civil Cadre) Administrative Officer 4
105. Sri Lanka Navy (Civil Cadre) Administrative Officer 2
106. Sri Lanka Air Force (Civil Cadre) Administrative Officer 1
107. Department of Immigration & Emigration Administrative Officer 2
108. Department of Registration of Persons Administrative Officer 2
109. Department of Police Administrative Officer 4
110. Department of Civil Security Administrative Officer 1
111. Department of Coast Conservation Administrative Officer 1
112. Ministry of Health Administrative Officer 76
113. Ministry of Indigenous Medicine Administrative Officer 1
114. Department of Ayurveda Administrative Officer 1
115. National Institute for Indigenous Administrative Officer 1
 Medicine – Navinna
116. Bandaranayaka Memo. Research Institute Administrative Officer 1
117. A yurveda Hospital- Borella Administrative Officer 1
118. W ickramarachchi Ayurveda Hospital – Administrative Officer 1
 Gampaha
119. A yurvedic Research Hospital –Hambantota Administrative Officer 1
120. Ministry of  Child Development & Women Administrative Officer 1
 Affairs
121. Department of Probation & Child Administrative Officer 1
 Care Services
122. Ministry of Social Services Administrative Officer 1
123. Department of  Social Services Administrative Officer 1
124. Ministry of Resettlement Administrative Officer 1
125. Ministry of Disaster Management Administrative Officer 1
Serial Institution Post Approved Cadre
Number

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
14A
Serial Institution Post Approved Cadre
Number
126. Department of Meteorology Administrative Officer 1
127. Ministry of Rehabilitation & Prison Reforms Administrative Officer 1
128. Department of Prisons Administrative Officer 2
129. Department of Community Based Corrections Administrative Officer 1
130. Ministry of Education Administrative Officer 5
131. National Colleges of Education Registrar 18
132. Department of  Examinations Administrative Officer 2
133. Department of  Education Publications Administrative Officer 1
134. Ministry of Higher Education Administrative Officer 1
135. Ministry of Youth Affairs & Skills Administrative Officer 1
 Development
136. Department of Technical Education & Administrative Officer 1
 Training
137. Colleges of Technology Registrar 38
138. Ministry of Technology & Research Administrative Officer 1
139. Planetarium Administrative Officer 1
140. Ministry of Sports Administrative Officer 1
141. Department of Sports Development Administrative Officer 1
142. Institute of Sports Medicine Administrative Officer 1
143. Ministry of Labour & Labour Relations Administrative Officer 1
144. Department of Labour Administrative Officer 2
145. Ministry of Productivity Promotion Administrative Officer 1
146. Department of Manpower & Employment Administrative Officer 1
147. Ministry of  Foreign Employment Administrative Officer 1
 Promotion & Welfare
148. Ministry of National Languages & Administrative Officer 1
 Social Integration
149. Department of Official Languages Administrative Officer 1
150. Ministry of Public Relations & Public Affairs Administrative Officer 1
151. Ministry of Buddasasana & Religious Affairs Administrative Officer 1
152. Department of Buddhist Affairs Administrative Officer 1
153. Department of Hindu Religious & Administrative Officer 1
 Cultural Affairs
154. Department of Christian Religious  Affairs Administrative Officer 1
155. Department of Muslim Religious & Administrative Officer 1
 Cultural Affairs
156. Department of Public Trustee Administrative Officer 1
157. Ministry of National Heritage Administrative Officer 1
158. Department of Archaeology Administrative Officer 5

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
15A
Serial Institution Post Approved Cadre
Number
159. Department of National Museums Administrative Officer 1
160. Department of National Archives Administrative Officer 1
161. Ministry of Cultural & Art Affairs Administrative Officer 1
162. Department of Cultural Affairs Administrative Officer 1
163. District & Divisional Secretariats Administrative Officer 353
782
Annex 02
1. Name of the Examination :  Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Public Management
Assistants’ Service
2. Particulars of the Examination
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
(1)  Language Proficiency 2 ½ hours 100 40
(2)  Aptitude 1 hour 100 40
Marks will be deducted in every question paper for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates are
required to obtain an aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks of the examination. Appointments shall be strictly
made in the order of the marks secured depending on the number of vacancies set apart to be filled on the results of
the competitive examination.
3. Authority for conducting the examination :
The Commissioner General of Examinations
4. Time frame of the Examination :
5. Syllabus of the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
1. Language Proficiency The question paper shall consist of subject related
questions designed to  test the candidate’s ability of
expression, comprehension, spellings, language and
essay, drafting a given letter,  making graph based on
the given data, summarizing passages, expressing the
idea of several given sentences in one sentence and
use of simple grammar.
2. Aptitude This paper shall consist of subject related questions
designed to test the candidates’ skill at numbers, power
of critical reasoning  and general intelligence
(These papers shall be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties)

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
16A
(1) Language Proficiency and
Aptitude  Test of Management
Assistants’  Service
Annex 03
1. Name of the Examination – Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Public Management
Assistants’ Service
2. Particulars of the Examination :
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
(1) Language Proficiency and Aptitude 2 ½ hours 100 40
Test of Management Assistants’ Service
(2) Aptitude 1 hour 100 40
Marks shall be deducted in every question paper for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates are
required to obtain an aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks of the examination. Candidates shall sit this
examination only in one language they prefer. Appointments shall strictly be made in the order of the merit and the
number of vacancies.
3. Authority for conducting the examination:
                      The Commissioner General of Examinations
4. Time frame of the Examination :
5. Syllabus of the Examination
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
The question paper shall consist of subject related questions designed
to  test the candidate’s ability of expression, comprehension, spellings,
language and essay, drafting a given letter,  summarizing passages,
expressing the idea of several given sentences in one sentence making
graph based on the given data,  and use of simple grammar, questions
designed to test the knowledge of the candidate on basic rules and
regulations applied in taking action regarding the documents of an office
and Management Assistant’s knowledge on duties such as action to be
taken on a letter containing matters for which such officer shall be attended
to and further questions to test candidate’s knowledge on the items
used in the office such as call-up diary, voucher, moving registers,
attendance registers, day stamp, official stamp and mail bag and  their
use.
(2) Aptitude This paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to test
the candidates’ skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning  and general
intelligence
(These papers shall be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties)

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
17A
Annex 04
01. Name of the Examination – Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade III of Public Management Assistants’
Service
02. Particulars of the Examination  (Shall pass within three years from the date of appointment)
Question Paper Duration T otal Marks Cut Off Marks
(1) Office Systems 2  hours 100 40
(2) Accounting Systems 2 hours 100 40
(3) Computer Test 1 ½ hours 100 40
Candidates shall answer the question papers in the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter the
relevant service or in an official language.
Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall
score at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
Note- Officers who have obtained Computer Driving License awarded by National Apprentice and Technical Training
Authority/a degree in Computer Science recognized by the University Grants Commission/ Proficiency Level at
NVQ 4 or above from an institution approved by the Tertiary Education and V ocational Education Commission shall
be exempted from the above computer test.
3. Authority for conducting the examination:
                   The Commissioner General of Examinations
4. Time frame of the Examination: Shall be held twice in every year
5. Syllabus of the Examination
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
1. Office Systems This paper shall be designed to test the candidate’s basic
knowledge on office systems adopted in government offices
and practical use of that knowledge, proper understanding
of official documents and the ability of presenting the ideas/
observations in clear and brief minutes and the ability of
drafting a letter according to an order given to the officer.
2. Accounting Systems It is expected to test candidate’s knowledge in Accounting
Systems adopted in government offices, functions of books
and records of controlling Accounts.
3. Computer Test (I) Basic concepts of Information Technology
(II) W indows Operating System
(III) Folder Management
(IV) W ord Processing
Basic skills, screen familiarization, editing texts,
Aligning text, fonts and attributes, indenting,
paragraphs, sub paragraphs, change of line spacing,
Tab setting, finding and replacing text, spelling and
grammar, thesaurus, working with columns, page setup,
printing documents, creating tables. Sorting texts, file
management, mail merging, working with macros

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
18A
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
3. Computer Test (V) Spreadsheets
Basic skills formatting editing columns and ranges, insertion
and deletion sorting data creating charts printing@ function
working with macros, file management
(VI) Internet and Email
Introduction to internet, Basic Skills receiving mailsending
mail, responding to mails working with attachments creating
and using nicknames composing messages
For full particulars about the examination candidates shall refer to the Gazette Notifications published by the
Director General from time to time.
Annex 05
1. Name of the Examination : Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade II of Public Management Assistants’
Service
2. Particulars of the Examination : (shall pass within three years from the date of promotion to Grade II)
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
(1) Office Systems and Procedure 2 hours 100 40
(2) Accounting systems adopted in 2 hours 100 40
the government offices
Candidates shall answer the question papers in the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter the
relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who entered the service without a Competitive
Examination, both papers shall be answered in the language medium of their education or in an official language.
Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall
secure at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
3. Authority for conducting the examination:
                       The Commissioner General of Examinations
4. Time frame of the Examination : Shall be held twice in every year
5. Syllabus of the Examination
Name of the Question paper Syllabus
(1) Office Systems and Procedure It is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge of
office systems practiced in government offices and his
/ her ability of practical application of the knowledge.
(2) Accounting Systems practiced in government offices.  It is expected to test candidate’s knowledge in
Accounting Systems practiced in government offices,
books and records controlling Accounts and orders
and instructions of the Treasury issued in relation to
that and his / her ability of practical application of the
knowledge.
For full particulars about the examination candidates should refer to the Gazette Notifications published by the
Director General from time to time.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
19A
Annex 06
1. Name of the Examination : Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade I of Public Management Assistants’
Service
2. Particulars of the Examination  (Shall pass within five years from the date of promotion to Grade I)
Question Paper Duration Total Marks Cut Off Marks
(1) Establishment Procedure 1 ½hours 100 40
and Procedural Rules
(2) Public Finance Management 1 ½hours 100 40
(3) Current Trends 1  hour 100 40
Written test shall be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English Medium. Candidates shall answer three question papers in
the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter the relevant service or in an official language. In
case of candidates who entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers shall be answered in the
language medium of their education or in an official language.
Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall
secure at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
3.  Authority for conducting the examination:
The Commissioner General of Examinations
4. Time frame of the Examination:        Shall be held twice in every year
5. Syllabus of the Examination
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
(1) Establishment Procedure and Procedural Rules This paper shall consist of a part containing questions to
test the proficiency of the experience gained on the knowledge
of Fundamentals of office systems, their importance, written
communication, documentation and compiling formats and
office activities and another part containing of questions to
test the knowledge on practical knowledge on matters
contained in V olume I and II of the Establishments Code and
volume I of the procedural rules of Public Service Commission.
(2) Public Finance Management It is expected to test the Candidates’ knowledge on the
subjects in government departments, offices and ministries
such as Financial Control, Custody of public money, revenue
and payment, budget estimates, supply and services (basic
knowledge on board of survey and store keeping, financial
regulations and auditing and basic banking practice)
(3) Current trends This paper shall consist of a part designed to test the
candidates’ knowledge on current, local and international
events and a part designed to test the candidates’ knowledge
on new trends on office management, service delivery of
public sector and good governance.
For full particulars about the examination candidates shall refer to the Gazette Notifications published by the
Director General of Combined Services from time to time.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
20A
Annex 07
Specimen Application for promotion of the officers in Grade III
of the Public Management Assistants’ Service to Grade II on average performance
1. Name with initials :  Mr/Mrs/Miss
2. Names denoted by the initials :
3. Date of Birth :
4. National Identity Card No :
5.  Date of entry to the service :
6. Number of the appointment letter of the Combined Service :
7. Date on which the appointment was confirmed :
8. Date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination and the index number :
9. Date on which the 10 years of service completed :
10. Office serving at present :
I hereby request to grant me the promotion to Grade II of Public Management Assistants’ Service
from …………………………….
........................................
Applicant’s Signature
Date:-
Director General of Combined Service
I hereby certify that
Mr/Mrs/Miss…………………………………………………………………. Is serving at this office and
1. Has completed an active period of 10 years to the date of ……………………………….
2. Has earned 10 salary increments
3. Has proved performance at the level of satisfactory or above during the service of 10 years as per the approved
performance appraisal procedure immediately preceding the date of promotion.
4. The number of half pay or no pay leave of the officer is  ……/ he/she has not obtained half pay or no pay leave
for the period of 10 years.
5. Has not been subjected to any punishment (except warnings) during the period concerned.
6. No disciplinary action is proceeding against the officer and do not intend to take any disciplinary action in the
future.
7. Has confirmed in the post from ………………….
8. Has passed the Efficiency Bar Examination of Grade III.
I hereby recommend this officer to be promoted to Grade II with effect from ………………………………………….
since he/she has completed a satisfactory service of five years.
Signature of the Head of the Institution
Name:
Designation:
Official stamp:
Date ……………………
Note :- In case the officer has not satisfied the qualification from 1- 8, please mention them.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
21A
Annex 08
Specimen Application for Promotion of Officers in Grade II
of Public Management Assistants’ Service to Grade I on Average Performance
Part I – (Should be completed by the officer)
1. (a) Name with initials :
(b) Names denoted by the initials :
(c) Previous names: (in the event of a change of name only):
2. Date of birth :
3. National Identity Card No. :
4. Date of the first appointment to the service :
5. Number of the letter of appointment to the Combined Service:
6. Date of promotion to Grade II of the Service:
7. Present place of work and its address :
8. Date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination:
I,.............................................................................hereby certify that all information furnished by me above, are true and
correct. I am fully aware that if the particulars furnished by me are found to be incorrect, my claim for promotion
Grade I in terms of this Minute is liable to be disregarded and disciplinary action is liable  to be taken against me.
.................................................. ……………………………………..
Date Signature of the officer
Part II
Certificate of the Secretary to the Ministry/ Head of the Department
Mr/ Mrs/ Miss ........................................................................................
1. Date of completion of 10 years in Grade II of Public Management Assistants’ Service
2. Shall have earned all the salary increments during the 10 years
3. Shall have proved a performance at average level or above during the 10 years immediately preceding the date of
promotion according to the approved performance evaluation procedure.
4. (i) Date of passing the efficiency bar examination:
Accounting systems    Office systems
Date of the examination .................................... ..................................
Index number ...................................... ...................................
(ii) The officer has/ has not fulfilled the requirement of passing the second efficiency bar examination. If the
     requirement has been fulfilled, mention the reference number and date of the letter.
5. (i)  If no pay / half pay leave has been taken, the period/ number of days:
(From the date of appointment/ promotion to Grade II of Public Management Assistants’ Service)
(ii) If any punishment/ punishments (other than warning) have been imposed, give a brief account: (Indicate the
reference number)
6. If the officer has been released for service at a Corporation or other Statutory Board, period of such service:
I endorse that as at ................................the officer has completed a period of 5 years of active service in Grade II of the
service, that he has a period of satisfactory service, that all the foregoing particulars are correct according to the
personal file and that he has fulfilled all qualifications for promotion to Grade I of the service.
Signature of the Head of the Institution
Name:
Designation:
Date ................................... (Official Stamp)

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
22A
Annex 09
Regulations and recommendation paper for promotion to Supra Grade of Public Management Assistants’ Service
Limited Competitive Examination
01. Particulars of the Examination
Question paper Duration Total Marks
(1) Office Management 2 hours 100
(2) Office Systems 2 hours 100
(3) Establishment procedure and procedural rules 2 hours 100
(4) Public finance management 2 hours 100
(5) General paper 1 ½ hours 100
02. Authority for conducting the examination:
The Commissioner General of examinations
03. Time frame of the examination : Shall be decided on the existing vacancies
04. Syllabus of the examination :
Name of the question paper Syllabus
(1) Office Management Organization structure, Principles of organization, task analysis and
task evaluation, leadership, supervision and the ability to make
decisions, communication, public relations, coordination and problem
solving
(2) Office systems Principles on office systems, office procedures, documents and filing,
planning and handling of forms, office correspondents, control over
the utilization of office equipment, office layout and environment,
job description, work and systems study, measurement of work and
office manual
(3) Establishment procedure and procedural rules Procedures to be followed when making recruitments to public service,
establishment activities of public officers, Maintaining a personal
file, vesting of powers for the tasks such as appointments, transfers,
promotions and termination of service of public servants, welfare of
public servants, privileges entitled to public officers, general
knowledge of the regulations and circulars that have been already
issued by the government.
(4) Public Finance management Responsibilities of an accounting officer and annual estimates,
financial control, delegation of responsibilities on financial matters,
receipt of money, accounting, acceptance of money, payments,
custody of public money, imprest and bank account, supplies and
services, tender procedures, board of surveys, audit queries, ledgers
and summaries of income and expenditure of government offices,
bank reconciliations, books on financial management, regulations
and circulars issued on utilization of Public Finance so far by the
government.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
23A
Name of the question paper Syllabus
(5) General paper The nature of public administration, structure of public
administration, public policies and new public reforms, fundamental
rights, Human rights, Human Rights Commission, Ombudsman, Public
Petition Committee of the Parliament, office culture, ethics and morals,
making the office environment properly, welfare activities of the staff,
recognition of civil and official status in the aspect of Social Science
and the duties of public officers towards recipients.
Annex 10
Competitive Examination for Promotion to Supra Grade of Management Assistants’ Service on Merit
01. Particulars of the examination
Question paper Duration Total marks
(1) Aptitude and case study 1 ½ hours 100
(2) Seniority 60
(3) Experience 40
02. Authority for conducting the examination :
                     The Commissioner General of examinations
03. Time frame of the examination : Shall be decided on the existing vacancies
04. Syllabus of the examination :
Name of the question paper Syllabus
(01) Aptitude and case study This question paper shall consist of two parts.
Part I All the
questions shall be related to office administration and
questions shall be given on general knowledge, ability of
decision making, critical reasoning and problems related to
office administration.  
Part II  Candidates shall have to answer
questions on a case study regarding office administration. The
question paper shall be prepared with one or several paragraphs.
(02) Seniority When marks are allocated for seniority, six marks shall be
allocated for each active and satisfactory period of one year
completed after the completion of five years active and
satisfactory service in Grade I subjected to a maximum of 60
marks. For this purpose three marks shall be allocated for a
period of more than six months but less than one year. However,
marks shall not be allocated for a period less than six months.
(03) Experience Maximum of 40 marks shall be given for a Supervising Officer
in Grade I of the service by allocating 02 marks per year.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013 .12.11
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.2013
24A
Annex 11
Absorption of those who are in service (shall be applicable for those who are in service on due date)
All the officers who are serving in posts of Class III, II, I and Supra Class of Public Management Assistants’ Service on due
date shall be absorbed under the new Service Minute in the following manner.
(a) Officers who are in Class III of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed in to
Grade III under the new Service Minute
(b) Officers who are in Class II of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed in to
Grade II under the new Service Minute
(c)  Officers who are in Class I of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed in to
Grade I under the new Service Minute
(d)  Officers who are in Supra Grade of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed in
to Supra Grade under the new Service Minute
(e) The present salary of the officers or the increment date shall not be changed due to this absorption.
12 – 1118
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.