

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1942$21 - 2015 fkdjeïn¾ ui 26 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'11'26
No. 1942/21  -  THURSDAY,  NOVEMBER  26,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
N.B.— Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary are published separately.
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the ‘Guidelines on Valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment, Investment
Property and Biological Assets for the purpose of Financial Reporting,’ published herewith for the purpose of the Sri
Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. Guidelines on Valuation of Property, Plant and
Equipment, Investment Property and Biological Assets for the purpose of Financial Reporting, shall be effective for
financial statements covering period commencing from the first day of October 2015.
By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
Secretary
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
26
th November, 2015
PG 2706 (2015/11)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
2A
Guidelines on Valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment, Investment Property and Biological
Assets for the purpose of Financial Reporting
Disclaimer
The purpose of this document is to provide guidance to the preparers, practitioners and the valuers in arriving the fair
value of Property, Plant and Equipment, Investment Property and Biological Assets for the purpose of Financial
Reporting.
Where there is conflict between a recommendation contained in these Guidelines and the requirements of any
applicable laws or regulations or accounting standards, the latter requirements shall take precedence. The Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka can neither accept any responsibility or liability whatsoever (whether in respect
of negligence or otherwise) to any party as a result of anything contained in or omitted from the Guidelines, nor for
the consequences of reliance or otherwise on the provisions of these Guidelines.
Introduction
Valuations are widely used for the purpose of financial reporting. The objective of this Guideline is to ensure the
reliability and consistency in valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE), Investment Property (IP) and
Biological Assets (BA)  by providing a framework for financial reporting purposes. The requirements and implications
of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS) and International V aluation Standards (IVS) have been considered in the
preparation of this Guideline. This is produced to clarify the aspects on such assets’ valuation for the purpose of
financial reporting in order to agree on a consistent application.
Application
This application guideline applies for the purpose of ascertaining, the value of such assets under Sri Lanka Accounting
Standards.Valuations undertaken for inclusion in financial statements shall be required to meet the  Sri Lanka
Accounting Standards that are applicable and the principles contained in the General V aluation Standards, except as
specifically modified by a requirement of the relevant accounting standard.
Qualifications
Every external valuation of PPE, IP and BA for the financial reporting purposes for the entities having public
accountability, shall be undertaken by qualified valuers who meet the eligibility criteria of either A or B except in the
case of a specialized nature assets, to which C would apply as given below;
A. A corporate member of the Institute of Valuers of Sri Lanka (IVSL) who shall be:
(i) A Fellow member; or
(ii) A Graduate member with 5 years of experience in such grade of membership; or
(iii) An Associate member with 20 years of experience in such grade of membership; or
B. A corporate member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors of the United Kingdom (RICS) who shall be:
I. A Fellow member; or
II. A member of RICS with 5 years of experience in such grade of membership.
C. For  assets  of  Technologically  or  otherwise  of  specialist  nature,  if  the  valuer deems necessary shall seek
expert advice in the fair value assessment.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
3A
Conflict of Interest
Professionals involved in the valuation of PPE, IP and BA for financial reporting purposes are expected to comply with
the ethical requirements (eg: the members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka – Code of Ethics)
Hence, he shall take reasonable steps to identify circumstances that could pose a conflict of interest. Upon evaluating
the significance of threats, if any he shall apply safeguards when necessary to eliminate the threats or reduce them to
an acceptable level. Also, before accepting or continuing a client relationship or specific engagement, such
professional shall evaluate the significance of any threats created by business interests or relationships with the client
or a third party.
However, every external valuation of such assets for the entities having public accountability  shall be undertaken by
the valuers who are not within the scope of Related Parties. (as defined in Paragraph 9 of LKAS 24 Related Party
Disclosures).
Effective Date of the Valuation Report
Valuation report shall state the effective date of the valuation and such value shall be recognized in the financial
statements from that date.
Basis of Valuation
The basis of valuation for financial reporting shall be the fair value as set out in SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Scope of Work
Management shall ensure that the report includes a description of the purpose of the valuation, extent of investigation,
procedures adopted, assumptions and the limitations.
Report Contents
The list of items that shall be included in a valuation report are set out in Annexure 01.
Guidance from SLFRS 13 in arriving at the fair value for the purpose of financial reporting
Overview
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard – SLFRS 13 provides a fair value measurement framework to apply to both initial and
subsequent measurement, if fair value is required or permitted by other SLFRSs, based on an objective to estimate the
price at which an orderly transaction to sell the asset would take place between market participants at the measurement
date under current market conditions (ie an exit price from the perspective of a market participant that holds the asset
at the measurement date) at the principal market (or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous
market) to measure such items at fair value.
Eg :
• Fixed assets which are subsequently measured in accordance with the revaluation model in LKAS 16 Property,
Plant and Equipment are within the scope of SLFRS 13 in terms of both measurement and disclosure.
• Investment property, regardless of whether this is measured in accordance with the fair value model or the cost
model under LKAS 40 Investment Property. Even when the cost model is followed, investment property is within
the scope of SLFRS 13, as Paragraph 79(e) of LKAS 40 requires fair value to be disclosed (therefore requiring
measurement).

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
4A
 
Fair value 
The Asset or 
Liability 
Principal (or most 
advantageous) market 
Market participant 
characteristics 
Inputs Valuation techniques 
Disclosures including fair value 
hierarchy categorization (based 
on the lowest level input that is 
significant to fair value) 
Highest & best use and 
Valuation Premise 
(non-financial assets 
only) 
If needed, 
allocation to unit 
of account 
Maximise Level 1 
inputs and  
minimize Level 3 
inputs 
Framework on the Fair Value Measurement
 
not a liquidation price 
or forced sale 
exit price 
eg: the price to 
sell the asset 
 
market-base 
dview 
 
current price 
 
“fair value” 
the price that would be received  
to sell an asset in an orderly 
transaction between market 
participants at the measurement 
date. 
 
 
market - based
view

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
5A
The Asset of Liability
A fair value measurement is for a particular asset or liability. Therefore, when measuring fair value an entity shall take
into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into
account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Such characteristics include, for example, the
following:
(a) the condition and location of the asset; and
(b) restrictions, if any, on the sale or use of the asset.
Example: Restrictions on the use of an asset
A donor of land specifies that the land must be used by a sporting association as a play contributes land in an
otherwise developed residential area to a not-for-profit neighbourhood association. The land is currently used as a
playground. Upon review of relevant documentation, the association determines that the donor’s restriction would
not transfer to market participants if the association sold the asset, being the donor restriction on the use of the
land is specific to the association. Furthermore, the association is not restricted from selling the land. Without the
restriction on the use of the land by the association, the land could be used as a site for residential development.
In addition, the land is subject to an easement (i.e. a legal right that enables a utility to run power lines across the
land).
Hence, the effect on the fair value measurement of the land arising from the restriction and the easement is as
follows:
(a) Donor restriction on use of land. Because in this situation the donor restriction on the use of the land is specific
to the association, the restriction would not be transferred to market participants. Therefore, the fair value of the
land would be the higher of its fair value used as a playground (ie the fair value of the asset would be maximised
through its use by market participants in combination with other assets or with other assets and liabilities) and
its fair value as a site for residential development (ie the fair value of the asset would be maximised through its
use by market participants on a stand-alone basis), regardless of the restriction on the use of the land by the
association.
(b) Easement for utility lines. Because the easement for utility lines is specific to (ie a characteristic of) the land, it
would be transferred to market participants with the land. Therefore, the fair value measurement of the land
would take into account the effect of the easement, regardless of whether the highest and best use is as a
playground or as a site for residential development.
Principal or the most advantageous market
Fair value is the price obtained from selling an asset in transaction that takes place in either:
 The principal market, or
 The most advantageous market (where no principal market exists).
In order to establish the principal (or the most advantageous) market, an entity needs to evaluate potential markets. An
entity does not have to undertake an exhaustive search to find the principal (or the most advantageous) market.
Nevertheless, all information that is available must be considered. Where there is no information to the contrary, the
market in which the entity usually transacts for the item is presumed to be the principal (or the most advantageous)
market.
Once an entity identifies the principal market, the fair value must be measured in that market, even if another market
(or markets) exist that are more advantageous.In addition, the potential market must be accessible as at measurement
date.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
6A
Eg: An asset is sold in two different active markets at different prices.
Market A B
Annual V olume 30,000 20,000
Trades per month 30 12
Price received 2,600 2,500
Transaction costs 300 100
Transport cost 200 200
Net Amount received 2,100 2,200
(2,600-300-200) (2,500-100-200)
Market Status Principal Market (the market with Most Advantageous Market (if Market
greatest volume & level of activity) /information is not available for access)
Possible Fair Value 2,400 2,300
(2,600-200) (2,500-200)
Highest and best use for non-financial assets
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account, a market participant’s ability to generate
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best  use  or by selling it to another market participant that
would use the asset in its highest and best use by taking into account the use of the asset that is:
(a) physically possible – physical characteristics of the asset that market participants would take into account when
pricing the asset (eg the location or size of a property).
(b) legally permissible – consider legal restrictions on the use of the asset that market participants would take into
account when pricing the asset (eg: the zoning regulations applicable to a property).
(c) financially feasible – consider whether that physically possible and legally permissible asset, generates adequate
income or cash flows (taking into account the costs of converting the asset to that use) to produce an
investment return that market participants would require from an investment in that asset put to that use.
Highest and best use is determined from the perspective of market participants , even if the entity intends a different
use. However, an entity’s current use of a non-financial asset is presumed to be its highest and best use unless market
or other factors suggest that a different use by market participants would maximize the value of the asset.
Even though, an entity does not intend to use the asset according to its highest and best use (eg: entity plans to use
defensively by preventing others from using it, to protect its competitive position), the entity shall measure the fair
value of a non-financial asset assuming its highest and best use by market participants.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
7A
 Physically possible? 
Legally permissible? 
Financially feasible? 
Maximises value? 
Use is considered in 
valuing the asset 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Use is not considered in 
valuing the asset  
No 
No 
No 
No 
Characteristics of the Market participants
When measuring fair value, an entity is required to use the assumptions the assumptions that market participants
would use when pricing the asset or liability. Instead, of identifying specific market participants, an entity must identify
characteristics of market participants that would generally transact for the asset   or   liability   being   measured.
When determining   these   characteristics, an entity takes into consideration factors that are specific to the asset or
liability; the principal (or most advantageous) market; and the market participants in that market and may require
significant judgement. For example, a residential real estate development entity may be considered a market participant
when measuring the fair value of land held by a manufacturing company if the highest and best use of the land is
deemed to be residential real estate development.
SLFRS 13 assumes that market participants have all of the following characteristics:
• they  are  independent  of  each  other, that  is,  they  are  not  related  parties;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
8A
• they are knowledgeable, having a reasonable understanding about the asset or liability using all available
information, including information obtained through usual and customary due diligence efforts;
• they are able to enter into a transaction for the asset or liability; and
• they are willing to enter into a transaction for the asset or liability, that is, they are motivated but not forced or
otherwise compelled to do so.
Valuation Techniques
An entity shall use valuation techniques  that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are
available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of
unobservable inputs. Observable inputs  are those that are developed using market data, such as publicly available
information about actual events or transactions, and that reflect the assumptions that market participants would use
when pricing the asset or liability. Unobservable inputs are those for which market data are not available and that are
developed using the best information available about the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing
the asset or liability.
Three widely used valuation techniques are; market approach,cost approachand income approach. Revisions resulting
from a change in the valuation technique or its application shall be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate
in accordance with LKAS 8. However, the disclosures in LKAS 8 for a change in accounting estimate are not required
for revisions resulting from a change in a valuation technique or its application.
Inputs to Valuation Techniques
Inputs to Valuation Techniques are the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
Fair value hierarchy categorises the inputs into three levels to measure the fair value;
Level 1 Quoted / Market pricesin active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the
entity can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted /market prices included within Level 1 that are observable
for the asset, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset.
Level 2 inputs: If the asset has a specified (contractual) term, a Level 2 input must be observable for substantially the
full term of the asset.
Level 3 inputs, ie. unobservable inputs are used to measure fair value to the extent that relevant observable inputs are
not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset at the
measurement date. An entity develops unobservable inputs using the best information available in the circumstances,
which might include the entity’s own data, taking into account all information about market participant assumptions
that is reasonably available.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
9A
 
If using the 
unobservable 
inputs# 
The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities (Level 1 inputs) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs). Therefore, estimating fair
value using significant Level 3 inputs is frequently inherently challenging due to the absence of market data.
Is there a quoted price in an active market for an identical asset?
 
Yes No 
Level 2 Inputs Level 1Inputs Level 3 Inputs 
  
 
Use the quoted price to measure fair 
value (Level 1) 
Replicate a market price through a valuation 
technique (using observable+ and unobservable 
inputs; i.e. Levels 2 and 3) 
Inputs other than 
quoted prices 
observable for the 
asset  
Use 
withoutadjustments 
being done 
+ Maximise the use of relevant observable inputs. Observable inputs include market data (prices and other
information that is publicity available).
# Unobservable inputs include the entity’s own data (budget, forecasts) which must be adjusted if market
participants would use different assumptions.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
10A
An entity shall use valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are
available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of
unobservable inputs.
The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical
or comparable (i.e. similar) assets, liabilities or a group of assets and liabilities, such as a business.
Eg: market multiples derived from a set of comparables.
The cost approach  reflects the amount that would be required currently to replace the service capacity of an asset
(often referred to as current replacement cost). From the perspective of a market participant seller, the price that would
be received for the asset is based on the cost to a market participant buyer to acquire or construct a substitute asset
of comparable utility, adjusted for obsolescence. Obsolescence encompasses physical deterioration, functional
(technological) obsolescence and economic (external) obsolescence and is broader than depreciation for financial
reporting purposes (an allocation of historical cost) or tax purposes (using specified service lives).
Eg: Current Replacement Cost method / Depreciated Replacement Cost
The income approach  converts future amounts (eg cash flows or income and expenses) to a single current (ie
discounted) amount. When the income approach is used, the fair value measurement reflects current market expectations
about those future amounts. Those valuation techniques include, for example, the following:
 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 
Market Approach 
Market price is available 
 Price for identical 
item 
 Must be used 
without adjustment  
 Price needs 
adjustment 
 Observable inputs 
 Price needs 
adjustment 
 Unobservable inputs 
Income Approach 
(eg discount cash flow) 
 
 Directly identifiable 
cash flows  
 Observable inputs 
 Rare 
 Unobservable 
inputs 
Cost Approach 
(eg replacement cost) 
 Not directly income 
producing 
 No identical market 
price 
 Price needs 
adjustment 
 
 Observable inputs 
 Rare 
 Unobservable 
inputs 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
11A
(a) present value techniques;
A fair value measurement of an asset using a present value technique captures all the following elements from
the perspective of market participants at the measurement date:
(i) an estimate of future cash flows for the asset being measured.
(ii) expectations about possible variations in the amount and timing of the cash flows (i.e. minimum explicit
time period of five years) representing the uncertainty inherent in the cash flows.
(iii) the time value of money, represented by the risk-free interest rate.
(iv) a risk premium.
(v) other factors that market participants would take into account in the circumstances.
(b) the multi-period excess earnings method, which is used to measure the fair value of some intangible assets.
An entity might need to make valuation adjustments, when using a valuation technique because market participants
would make those adjustments when pricing a financial asset under the market conditions at the measurement date,
including adjustments for measurement uncertainty.
An entity shall apply a consistent valuation technique and a change is allowed only in limited & justifiable
circumstances.
Calibration of Valuation Techniques that uses unobservable inputs
If the transaction price is fair value at initial recognition and a valuation technique that uses unobservable inputs will
be used to measure fair value in subsequent periods, the valuation technique shall be calibrated so that at initial
recognition the result of the valuation technique equals the transaction price.
Calibration ensures that the valuation technique reflects current market conditions, and it helps an entity to determine
whether an adjustment to the valuation technique is necessary (eg there might be a characteristic of the asset that is
not captured by the valuation technique). After initial recognition, when measuring fair value using a valuation
technique or techniques that use unobservable inputs, an entity shall ensure that those valuation techniques reflect
observable market data (eg the price for a similar asset) at the measurement date.
Componentisation and Depreciation
The main objective of this approach is to reflect more precisely the pattern in which the asset’s future economic
benefits are expected to be consumed by the entity.
Recognition and depreciation:
Where the carrying amount is based on historic cost, the cost of those components that both have a significant cost
in relation to the total and that have a materially different useful life shall be readily identifiable. (G16 of IVS 300)
Where the carrying amount is based on the fair value / revaluation of the item, an allocation will need to be made of
the fair value of the item between the components.
Although it may be possible to determine the value attributable to a component of an item of plant or equipment if
there is an active market for those components, in other cases the components will not be actively traded.  The latter
is normally the case with components of a building, eg ; buildings are rarely sold without the mechanical and
electrical services needed for heating, lighting and ventilation, and the installed plant could not be sold without the
building.  (G17 of IVS 300)

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
12A
Where the value of the individual components cannot be reliably determined, the value attributable to the whole lot
is apportioned to the components.  The ratio of the cost of the item to the cost of the whole lot may be an
appropriate basis for such an apportionment.  Each part of an item of property, plant and equipment with a cost that
is significant in relation to the total cost of the item and may be having different useful life times shall be
depreciated separately. (Paragraph 43 of LKAS 16)
A condition of continuing to operate an item of property, plant and equipment (for example, an aircraft) may be
performing regular major inspections for faults regardless of whether parts of the item are replaced. When each major
inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the item of property, plant and equipment as
a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. Any remaining carrying amount of the cost of the previous
inspection (as distinct from physical parts) is derecognised. This occurs regardless of whether the cost of the previous
inspection was identified in the transaction in which the item was acquired or constructed. If necessary, the estimated
cost of a future similar inspection may be used as an indication of what the cost of the existing inspection component
was when the item was acquired or constructed.
Derecognition (Paragraph 70 of LKAS 16):
If under the recognition principle (in paragraph 7 of LKAS 16), an entity recognizes in the carrying amount of an item
of property, plant and equipment the cost of a replacement for part of the item, then it derecognises the carrying
amount of the replaced part, regardless of whether the replaced part had been depreciated separately. If it is not
practicable for an entity to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, it may use the cost of the replacement
as an indication of what the cost of the replaced part was at the time it was acquired or constructed.
Exchange of Assets
All items of property, plant and equipment acquired in exchange for non-monetary assets or a combination of monetary
and non-monetary assets should be measured at fair value, except that, if the exchange transaction lacks commercial
substance (i.e. transaction did not have a discernible effect on an entity’s economics) or the fair value of neither of
the assets exchanged can be determined reliably, then the cost of the asset acquired in the exchange should be
measured at the carrying amount of the asset given up.
In evaluating whether a transaction has commercial substance, an entity should calculate the present value of the
post-tax cash flows that it can reasonably expect to derive from the portion of its operations affected by the
transaction. The discount rate should reflect the entity’s current assessment of the time value of money and the risks
specific to those operations rather than those that marketplace participants would make.
Working with valuation specialists on the valuation of assets for financial reporting purposes:
Fair value under IFRS (SLFRS in the Sri Lankan context) is a different concept to fair value as defined and discussed
in the International Valuation Standards (IVS) Framework. Therefore, market value under IVS is more consistent with the
fair value measurement requirement under SLFRS 13 subject to some specific assumptions required by the SLFRSs
such as stipulations as to the unit of account. IVS define fair value as an amount that is fair in the circumstances,
which may take into account factors such as synergistic value. Despite differences in terminology, applying a market
participant perspective is very familiar to professional valuers, as are many of the other concepts and techniques in
IFRS 13 (such as the “highest and best use” concept).
Guidance to the Auditors on using the work of Valuers for the purpose of financial reporting:
Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) are to be applied in the audit of financial statements of an entity. Nature of
such standards requires the auditor to exercise professional judgment in the application.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
13A
Fair Value measurement involves estimation and may require the management to engage a valuation expert to arrive
such amounts to be included in the financial statements. The auditor may decide to use the work of a management’s
expert and or the auditor’s expert. Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 540 Auditing Accounting Estimates, Including Fair
Value Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures directs the auditor to obtain sufficient and appropriate about
whether such estimated values and the disclosed amounts in the financial statements are reasonable  and adequate.
Paragraph 9 of the Sri Lanka Auditing Standard 500 Audit Evidence  states that if information to be used as audit
evidence has been prepared using the work of a management’s expert, the auditor shall, to the extent necessary,
having regard to the significance of that expert’s work for the auditor’s purposes:
(a) Evaluate the competence, capabilities and objectivity of that expert;
(b) Obtain an understanding of the work of that expert; and
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of that expert’s work as audit evidence for the relevant assertion.
Application guidance is stated in paragraphs A34 to A48 of the said SLAuS.
When the auditor intends to use the work of an auditor’s expert, his responsibilities are set out in the Sri Lanka
Auditing Standard SLAuS 620 Using the Work of an Auditor’ s Expert.  According to the paragraph 9 of such standard,
the auditor shall evaluate whether his expert has the necessary competence, capabilities and objectivity for the
Auditor’s purposes.Further, in order to determine the nature, scope and objectives of such expert’s work and to
evaluate the adequacy of the expert’s work for the auditor’s purposes, he shall obtain sufficient understanding of the
field of expert’s expertise (paragraph 10). In addition, paragraph 11 requires the following matters to be agreed with the
expert;
(a) The nature, scope and objectives of that expert’s work;
(b) The respective roles and responsibilities of the auditor and that expert;
(c) The nature, timing and extent of communication between the auditor and that expert, including the form of any
report to be provided by that expert; and
(d) The need for the auditor’s expert to observe confidentiality requirements.
The auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide reasonable assurance that fair value
measurements and disclosures are in conformity with SLFRSs.
Annexure 01 – Report Contents
For the purpose of communicating the information that is necessary for proper understanding of the valuation, it is
recommended to include the below information in the valuation report that is prepared for the purpose of financial
reporting;
(a) Identification and status of the valuer
(b) Identification of the client and any other intended users
(c) Purpose of the valuation
(d) Identification of the asset to be valued
(e) Basis of value
(f) Highest and best use considered for the valuation
(g) Extent of investigation
(h) Encumbrances attached to the asset and the impact on the valuation

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
14A
(i) Nature and source of the information relied upon
(j) Assumptions and special assumptions
(k) Confirmation that the valuation complies with these guidelines.
(l) Valuation approach and reasoning
(m) Amount of the valuation or range of values
(n) Date of the valuation report and effective date of valuation
Annexure 02 – Fair value disclosures required under SLFRS 13
Reference Disclosures Y/N/NA
SLFRS13 1. Disclose information that helps users of its financial statements assess both of
p91 the following:
 
 (a) for assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring or
non-recurring basis in the statement of financial position after initial recogni-
tion, the valuation techniques and inputs used to develop those measure-
ments; and
 
 (b) for recurring fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs
(Level 3), the effect of the measurements on profit or loss or other
comprehensive income for the period.  
SLFRS13 To meet the objective in SLFRS 13 para 91, consider all the following:
p92
(a)-(d)  ( a)  the level of detail necessary to satisfy the disclosure requirements;  
(b) how much emphasis to place on each of the various requirements;  
(c) how much aggregation or disaggregation to undertake; and  
(d) whether users of financial statements need additional information to evaluate the
quantitative information disclosed.
 
 2. If the disclosures provided in accordance with this SLFRS and other SLFRSs
are insufficient to meet the objectives in SLFRS 13 para 91, disclose additional
information necessary to meet those objectives.
 
SLFRS13 3. To meet the objectives in SLFRS 13 para 91, disclose, at a minimum, the
P 93 (a)-(i) following information for each class of asset (see SLFRS 13 para 94 for
information on determining appropriate classes of assets and liabilities)
measured at fair value (including measurements based on fair value within the
scope of this SLFRS) in the statement of financial position after initial
recognition:
 
(a) for recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements, the fair value
measurement at the end of the reporting period, and for non-recurring fair
value measurements, the reasons for the measurement;  

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
15A
(b) for recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements, the level of the
fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurements are categorised
in their entirety (Level 1, 2 or 3);
(c) for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period that are
measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the amounts of any transfers
between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the reasons for
those transfers and the entity’s policy for determining when transfers
between levels are deemed to have occurred. Transfers into each level are
disclosed and discussed separately from transfers out of each level;
(d) for recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements categorised within
Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a description of the
valuation technique(s) and inputs used in the fair value measurement. If
there has been a change in valuation technique, disclose that change and
the reason(s) for making it. For fair value measurements categorised within
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, provide quantitative information about
the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement;
An entity is not required to create quantitative information to comply with
this disclosure requirement if quantitative unobservable inputs are not
developed by the entity when measuring fair value. However, when
providing this disclosure, an entity cannot ignore quantitative unobservable
inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement and are reasonably
available to the entity.  
(e) for recurring fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair
value hierarchy, a reconciliation from the opening to the closing balances,
disclosing separately changes during the period attributable to the
following:
(i) total gains or losses for the period recognised in profit or loss, and
the line item(s) in profit or loss in which those gains or losses are
recognised;
(ii) total gains or losses for the period recognised in other
comprehensive income, and the line item(s) in other comprehensive
income in which those gains or losses are recognised;  
(iii) purchases, sales, issues and settlements (each of those types of
changes disclosed separately); and
(iv) the amounts of any transfers into or out of Level 3 of the fair value
hierarchy, the reasons for those transfers and the entity’s policy for
determining when transfers between levels are deemed to have
occurred (see SLFRS 13 para 95). Transfers into Level 3 are disclosed
and discussed separately from transfers out of Level 3;
(f) for recurring fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair
value hierarchy, the amount of the total gains or losses for the period in
(e)(i) included in profit or loss that is attributable to the change in
unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets and liabilities held at the
end of the reporting period, and the line item(s) in profit or loss in which
those unrealised gains or losses are recognised;
Reference Disclosures Y/N/NA

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
16A
(g) for recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements categorised within
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a description of the valuation processes
used by the entity. If income approach is used, frequency and methods of
calibration, back testing and other testing procedures of pricing models.
[IFRS 13 IE65 (B)] ;  
(h) for recurring fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair
value hierarchy:
(i) for all such measurements, a narrative description of the sensitivity of
the fair value measurement to changes in unobservable inputs if a
change in those inputs to a different amount might result in a
significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. If there are
interrelationships between those inputs and other observable inputs
used in the fair value measurement, provide a description of those
interrelationships and of how they might magnify or mitigate the
effect of changes in the unobservable inputs on the fair value
measurement. To comply with that disclosure requirement, the
narrative description of the sensitivity to changes in unobservable
inputs includes, at a minimum, the unobservable inputs disclosed
when complying with (d); and  
 
(ii) for financial assets and financial liabilities, if changing one or more of
the unobservable inputs to reflect reasonably possible alternative
assumptions would change fair value significantly, state that fact and
disclose the effect of those changes. Disclose how the effect of a
change to reflect a reasonably possible alternative assumption was
calculated. For that purpose, significance is judged with respect to
profit or loss, and total assets or total liabilities – or, when changes
in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income, total
equity; and  
 
(i) for recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements, if the highest and
best use of a non-financial asset differs from its current use, disclose that
fact and why the non- financial asset is being used in a manner that differs
from its highest and best use.  
SLFRS13p 4. Determine appropriate classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the
94(a),(b)  following:  
(a) the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset; and
 
(b) the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement
is categorised.  
• The number of classes may need to be greater for fair value measurements
categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because those
measurements have a greater degree of uncertainty and subjectivity.
Reference Disclosures Y/N/NA

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
17A
• Determining the appropriate classes of assets and liabilities for which
disclosures about fair value measurements shall be provided requires
judgement. A class of assets and liabilities will often require greater
disaggregation than the line items presented in the statement of financial
position.
• Provide information sufficient to permit reconciliation to the line items
presented in the statement of financial position. If another SLFRS specifies
the class for an asset, an entity may use that class in providing the
disclosures required in SLFRS 13 if that class meets the requirements in
SLFRS 13 para 94.  
SLFRS13 5 Disclose and consistently follow the entity’s policy for determining when
p95(a)-(c) transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to have
occurred in accordance with SLFRS 13 para 93(c) and (e)(iv). The policy about
the timing of recognising transfers is the same for transfers into the levels as
for transfers out of the levels. Examples of policies for determining the timing of
transfers include the following:
 
(a) the date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer;
(b) the beginning of the reporting period; and  
(c) the end of the reporting period.  
SLFRS13 6. If an entity makes an accounting policy decision to use the exception in SLFRS
p96 13 para 48 (exemption where an entity manages a group of financial assets and
liabilities on the basis of its net exposure to market or credit risk), disclose that
fact.  
SLFRS13 7. For each class of asset not measured at fair value in the statement of financial
p97 position but for which fair value is disclosed, disclose the information required
by SLFRS 13 para 93(b)-(d) and (i).However, an entity is not required to
provide the quantitative disclosures about significant unobservable inputs used
in fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy
required by SLFRS 13 para 93(d). For such assets and liabilities, an entity does
not need to provide the other disclosures required by this SLFRS.
 
SLFRS13 8. Present the quantitative disclosures required by this SLFRS in a tabular format
p99 unless another format is more appropriate.  
Reference Disclosures Y/N/NA
Note:
Additional information that helps users of its financial statements also needs to be disclosed.
The reference in the first column to the left in the above table indicates the paragraphs of the Sri Lanka Accounting
Standard - SLFRS 13. For example, “SLFRS13 p40” indicates SLFRS 13 and paragraph 40.
Preparers are encouraged to enter either Y - Yes, N – No or N/A – Not Applicable, as appropriate, for each disclosure
item.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
18A
Annexure 03: Practical Application of SLFRS 13 to Specific items
PPE Investment Property Biological Assets
Applicability
Unit of
account
Valuation
approaches
and
techniques
For items of PPE subsequently
measured in accordance with the
revaluation model
Generally, an item that is
separately  identifiable and
individually significant will
constitute a unit of account. If a
market exist only for a group of
assets as a whole (eg: land and
buildings), even though the two
components are separate units
of account), measure fair value
of the group as a whole and then
to allocate the valuation to the
individual components.
• Typically through the market
approach
• Cost  approach if  purchased
recently
• Cost approach for specialized
plant
Regardless of whether this is
measured in accordance with the fair
value model or the cost model (as
disclosure of  FV is required).
Eg: a unit of account could comprise
land, a building or part of a building
or both and if leased on a furnished
basis, the related movable furniture
as well.
Typically through market approach
(eg: as a product of metrics – price
per square foot/metre and the area of
IP);
Income approach [eg: yield method –
current or market rental of property /
property’s value) and DCF technique
– discounting the expected cash
inflows and outflows arising from the
property at the rate of return investors
would require.
The valuation technique needs to be
calibrated to ensure that the result
reflects observable market data.];
Cost approach [cost of construction,
financing costs and a reasonable
profit margin.]
The fair value of IP under
construction could be measured
using the cost approach.
From the point of initial
recognition to be measured at fair
value less costs to sell.
Could be either a single asset or
a group of assets.
 Eg: trees in the forest
LKAS 41 allows assets to be
grouped according to their
significant attributes.
• Eg: livestock according to
age or weight
• Crops according to quality
Until harvest, the future
agricultural produce that is
attached to the biological assets
is not recognized separately and
fair value is determined based on
the asset as a whole.
When an active market exists
only for the combined package
of the biological assets, land and
land improvements; in order to
arrive the fair value of the
biological assets, it may be
necessary to deduct the fair
value of the land and
improvements from the combined
package.
Living animals using market
approach. Plants during initial
growth using cost approach,
thereafter income approach (the
valuation technique needs to be
calibrated).

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
19A
Note 01:
The fair value of a biological asset includes not only the asset’s present harvest value, but also potential additional
biological transformation that a market participant would consider in the valuation. Hence the factors such as the risks
attached with the asset (eg: weather), estimated yields and estimated costs of bringing the asset to its intended
condition needs to be considered. These risks address the uncertainty related to future cash flows and are reflected in
either the discount rate and or the estimate of expected cash flows.
In DCF method of valuation, the present value of expected net cash flows from the asset discounted at a current
market-determined rate is used to determine fair value in its present location and condition. Determination of an
appropriate discount rate is essential to ensure that the valuation is reliable.
When little biological transformation has taken place since initial cost incurrence, cost may approximate fair value
(paragraph 24 of LKAS 24). In these situations, the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
noted that the discount rate selected would be expected to result in a value that approximates that cost.
The best evidence of the fair value of an asset at initial recognition is the transaction price, unless the fair value of
the asset is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same asset (without
modification or repackaging) or based on a valuation technique whose variables include data from observable markets.
The application of the said requirement may result in no gain or loss being recognised on the initial recognition of an
asset. In such a case, gain or loss shall be recognised after initial recognition only to the extent that it arises from a
change in a factor (including time) that market participants would consider in setting a price. Periodically, an entity
calibrates the valuation technique and tests it for validity using prices from observable current market transactions in
the same asset. An entity obtains market data from the same market where the asset was originated.
Where an active market does not exist, for the asset in its current form, entities might use prices for similar assets for
which observable prices do exist as an input into the fair value measurement. Then, it is needed to make appropriate
adjustments for any differences between the asset being measured at fair value and similar asset, for which observable
market prices are available.
Practically, a cash flow is prepared for the complete life of the plant, at current cost and prices. Based on the IFRIC
agenda decision, the discount rate is determined so that the net present value approximates initial cost at the time of
planting. This would also satisfy the need for calibration and the avoidance of ‘day one profit.’ A recalculation is done
in subsequent years, based on the new current cost and prices. The fair value calculated at different points of time,
would reflect prices prevailing at that time.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
20A
Annexure 04: Defined Terms
Active market A market in which transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency and
volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Biological asset A biological asset  is a living animal or plant.
Costs of Incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset or cash generting unit,
Disposal excluding finance costs and income tax experse.
Costs to sell Costs to sell  are the incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset, excluding
finance costs and income taxes.
Entry price The price paid to acquire an asset or received to assume a liability in an exchange transaction.
Exit price The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability.
Highest and The use of a non-financial asset by market participants that would maximise the value of the
best use asset or the group of assets and liabilities (eg a business) within which the asset would be
used.
Most Most advantageous market  for the asset is the market that maximises the amount that would be
advantageous received to sell the asset, after taking into account transaction costs and transport costs.
market
Observable Inputs that are developed using market data, such as publicly available information about
inputs actual events or transactions, and that reflect the assumptions that market participants would
use when pricing the asset or liability.
Principal market Principal market for the asset is the market with the greatest volume and level of activity for the
asset.
Public An entity has  public accountability if:
accountability
(a) its debt or equity instruments are traded in a public market or it is in the process of
issuing such instruments for trading in a public market (a domestic or foreign stock
exchange or an over-the-counter market, including local and regional markets), or
(b) it holds assets in a fiduciary capacity for a broad group of outsiders as one of its
primary businesses. This is typically the case for banks, credit unions, insurance
companies, securities brokers/dealers, mutual funds and investment banks.
Following are the examples for entities which will be considered having the public accountability
for this purpose;
- Companies licensed under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988
- Companies authorised under the Control of Insurance Act, No. 25 of 1962, to carry on
insurance business

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
21A
- Companies carrying on leasing business
- Factoring companies
- Companies registered under the Finance Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988
- Companies licensed, under the Securities and Exchange Commission Act, No 36 of 1987,
to operate unit trust
- Fund Management Companies
- Companies licensed under the Securities and Exchange Commission Act, No 36 of 1987,
to carry on business as stock brokers or stock dealers
- Companies licensed under the Securities and Exchange Commission Act, No. 36 of 1987
to operate a Stock Exchange- Companies listed in a Stock Exchange licensed under
the Securities and Exchange Commission Act, No 36 of 1987
- Public corporation engaged in the sale of goods or the provision of services.
Recoverable The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is the higher of its fair value
amount less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Unobservable Inputs for which market data are not available and that are developed using the best information
input available about the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or
liability.
Sources:
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (2014)
International Valuation Standards (2011). The bound volume including the IVS Framework, the IVS General Standards,
IVS Asset Standards and IVS Applications
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (2015).The bound volume of the SLFRSs including all the revised Accounting
Standards that have been adopted as per 2015 ‘Consolidated without early adoption version of the IFRS bound
volume’
Ratnayake, A. (2010, September), Valuing biological assets. Financial Management CIMA (UK)
The KPMG International Standards Group (2014/15), Insights into IFRS
The International Financial Reporting Group of EY (2014), International GAAP 2014
12 - 414
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.