

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2310$28 - 2022 foieïn¾ ui 14 jeks nodod - 2022'12'14
No. 2310/28 -  weDNesDay,  December  14,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 38349 - 08 (12/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SPORTS  LAW  No.  25  Of  1973
                  
reGulatioNs made by the minister of sports and youth affairs under the section 41 and read with the sections 31 and 
40 of the sports  law No. 25 of 1973.
  
                                                                                                                               Roshan Ranasinghe (M.P),
 minister of sports and youth affairs.
at colombo,
14th December, 2022.
Regulations
regulation No. 01 of 2016 of the National association of sports; published by the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1990/23 dated 
27th october, 2016 and amended from time to time, are further amended as follows to give encouragement to sports, improve 
and develop sports, and for the betterment of the athletes and those who are engaged in sports as well as to determine the 
composition of sports clubs that bring it up to the ground level and to monitor those.
 
 1. the Paragraph No. (4) (r) under the regulation No. 05 of the Part ii of regulations of the National associations 
of sports published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1990/23 dated 27.10.2016 and amended from time to time 
is removed and the following paragraph is added instead.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.12.2022
2a
 (4) (r) "if such person; except the treasurer of assistant treasurer, has not participated more than two times for 
a team sport or more than one time for a single event or sport at any major tournament, national sport 
meet, competion registered, promoted, conducted or approved by the said association in respect of the 
said sport, or has not represented sri lanka as a National level athlete at an accepted international contest 
and if not possessing of a certificate issued to the above effect",
 2. (i) the following paragraph is substituted immediately after the paragraph (ii) in the 07th regulation of the Part 
iii of the said regulations.
  (ii) (a) promote the respective sport, conduct not less than two inter-regional, inter district, inter - Provincial, 
sports matches yearly, training of athletes and maintaining permanent pools related to the said sport.
  (iii) Paragraph (xiv) in regulation 7 of the Part iii of said regulations is removed and the following paragraph is 
substituted instead.
   7 (xiv) Holding the annual General meeting; and 
 (a) immediately after e xecutive committee is appointed in the election of the National association/
Federation of Sports, the Execute Council shall inform all the affiliated  member institutes and obtain 
the nominations to elect the members of technical committee, Finance committee and Disciplinary 
Committee for a period of 02 years, and make the appointments as per the qualifications.
 (b) in order to appoint the selection committee of National associations/Federation of sports for a period 
of 02 years, the relevant National associations/Federation of sports shall duly inform all the member 
institutes affiliated to their National Associations/Federation of Sports, obtain the nominations and 
select the most suitable ten (10) members at an executive committee meeting, and the applications 
together with the selected list of nominations shall be referred to the National selection committee 
with a copy to the Director General of the Department of sports Development, and National selection 
committee shall refer its recommended list of nominations for the committee for the National sports 
council, and the National sports council shall consider the said recommendation further and refer; 
with the recommendations of the council through the secretary to the ministry, to the minister in 
charge of the subject for approval.
 (c) conducting a special General meeting to elect the members to the election committee.
  (iv) Following paragraph as (xx) (a), (xx) (b) and (xx) (c) are inserted immediately after the paragraph (xx) of the 
regulation 7 in Part iii of the said regulation.
 "(xx) (a) s ubmitting reports to the Director General of sports to facilitate the supervision and monitoring activities 
of other main member sports clubs of the National sports association, from the regional sports clubs; 
the lowest unit of the National sports associations, to the District sports associations and Provincial 
sports associations.
 (xx) (b) inquiring whether the District sports association promotes the relevant sport within its territory, 
conducts not less than 02 regional tournaments annually, trains athletes and maintains permanent pool 
of athletes and whether the District association monitors and supervises the local sports clubs in a 
proper manner, and reporting to the Director General of sports.
 (xx) (c) reporting to the Director General of sports on the details of conducting not less than 02 inter-district 
sports tournaments annually by the provincial association of sports within its jurisdiction, training of 
athletes and maintaining permanent provincial sports reserves, promoting the relevant sport within 
their jurisdiction, and whether the Provincial associations of sports property monitor and supervise 
the District associations of sports.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.12.2022
3a
 3. the following new paragraph is inserted immediately after the Paragraph (xxv) under the regulation No. 07 in 
Part iii of the said regulations.
  7 (xxvi) 
  Each National Association of Sports has the responsibility to include and affiliated Associations of Sports consisted 
with the persons having special needs (with physically disabled visual impairments and hearing impairments etc) 
related to their sports.
 4. the said regulation is further amended by inserting the following paragraph immediately after the paragraph (xxvii) 
in the regulation 7 part iii of the said regulation.
  7 (xxviii)
 
  When National Associations of Sports enter into international agreements and international financial transactions, 
such national associations of sports should act transparently subject to the financial law of the country adhering 
to the financial discipline, and such agreements shall be submitted for the approval of the Minister in charge with 
the recommendation of the Secretary to the Ministry; as the Chief accounting Officer of the Ministry in charge of 
the subject.
 5. the interpretation given to "National association of sports" under the interpretation under Part Vi of the said 
regulation is removed and the following interpretation is substituted.
  "National association of sports" means an association, Joint association or board that governs a sport or series 
of sports named under the section 28 of the sports law No. 25 of 1973.
each National association/Federation of sports shall be formed mainly consisting with district associations of 
sports formed by the collection of regional sports clubs, provincial association of sports formed by the collection 
of district associations of sports and with other special associations or organizations which mainly provides their 
contribution for the sport.
a constitution for their association shall be prepared by the National associations of sports subject to the existing 
laws, sports acts and related orders and regulations in sri lanka and the said constitution shall be submitted for 
the approval of the Director General of sports. the regional, district, provincial and other associations should act 
in accordance with the constitution of the national association of sports approved above, and there should not be 
a regional, district and provincial constitution limited to each association.
the following new interpretation is inserted immediately after the interpretation given to "National association 
of sports" in the interpretation of Part Vi of the said regulation.
"Divisional sports clubs" means the sports clubs located in a particular Divisional secretary's Division relating 
to the said sport.
"District associations of sports" means a collection of Divisional sports clubs formed so that each Divisional 
secretary's Division in the respective district  is covered. the Divisional clubs of sports shall be accountable to the 
District and Provincial associations of sports, and the responsibility of monitoring those associations is entrusted 
with the District Provincial and National associations of sports.
"Provincial associations of sports" means a collection of District associations of sports which have established 
Divisional sports clubs so that all the Divisional secretary's Divisions of all the District within the respective 
Province are covered. the District associations are accountable to the Provincial and National sports associations, 
and the responsibility of monitoring those associations is entrusted with Provincial and National associations of 
sports.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.12.2022
4a
"special association" means the associations of sports such as Government services, National services, mercantile 
services, Defence services and Joint university sports association, mahaweli sports association, and youth 
service association of sports.
 6. the following section 'y' is inserted immediately after the section 'x' of the schedule iii of the said regulations.
"y". the entitlement to exercise votes for the member associations representing each National association 
or Federation of sprots.
 i. a divisional sports club is entitled for one vote, and the District association of sports shall be elected 
from the total of those votes, and an Association of Sports that has fulfilled such qualifications is given 
the entitlement for one vote at the election of National associations of sports;
 ii. a district association of sports established in each Province is entitled for one vote, and Provincial 
associations of sports shall be established by the said District vote, and such a Provincial association 
of sports has one vote at the election of the National association of sports.
 iii. one vote for founder sport club for each sport; if available
 iv. one vote in the provisions of the constitutions of the Government service, National services, mercantile 
services, Defence services, Joint university sports association, mahaweli sports association, youth 
services sports association considered to be in the special associations being engaged in sports.
Provisions are to be incorporated as above for constitutions of associations and shall adhere to them
However, in order to be entitled for or obtain the right to vote, each Member Association shall have fulfilled 
the following minimum requirements.
 i. annual membership fees have been paid as at the due date.
 ii. completion of 2 years upon the registration or membership in National association/Federation.
 iii. being registered in the respective Divisional secretariat or District secretariat.
 iv. e very member association shall finish conducting General meetings from 01st august to  
01st January of the year related to the election of Member Associations affiliated to their Association 
and organization, and such General meetings shall be before 31st may of every year.
 v. annual reports, minutes of General meetings, election related reports and records containing all details 
of officers and members' reports, Account reports of the Divisional sports clubs shall be submitted to 
the Divisional Sports Officer before 31st December of every year.
 vi. t eams or athletes have participated at least for two competitions from the tournaments organized 
annually by the National association.
 vii. t raining camps and training courses have been held within the year (at least ten (10) shall have been 
conducted)
 viii. Has not been banned in the respective year by violating the disciplines of the sports or the constitution 
of the association.
 ix. male/female junior and senior pools of players and training are being maintained within their District 
or Province or at sports club level.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.12.2022
5a
 x. essential infrastructures related to the respective sport owned by founder sports clubs and special 
Associations have been fulfilled. (Stadiums, swimming pools, tennis courts etc.)
 xi. The actions shall be taken to include the affiliated sports clubs consisting of people with special needs 
related to their sports (visually impaired, hearing impaired, physically disabled, etc.)
However, if the above infrastructures have not been fulfilled by a certain Association of Sports, the actions 
shall be taken to suspend the right to vote or membership temporarily or permanently.
However, the efforts should be made to establish Divisional sports clubs, District sports associations and 
provincial sports associations in order to promote sports in every Grama Niladhari Division in sri lanka. 
it is the responsibility of such association of sports to give all sports-loving citizens the humane right to 
engage in a sport of their choice.
if all the above-mentioned facilities have not been met by any member association;
A Grade "A" Association shall act to achieve the above-mentioned facilities within a period of five (05) 
years from the effective date of these orders.  (establishing Divisional sports clubs and District associations 
within at least three Districts per year and providing infrastructure for the sports related to their association)
a Grade "b" association shall act to achieve the above-mentioned facilities within a period of eight (08) 
years from the effective date of these orders. (establishing Divisional sports clubs and District associations 
within at least two Districts per year and providing infrastructure for the sports related to their association)
a Grade "c" association shall act to achieve the above-mentioned facilities within a period of ten (10) years 
from the effective date of these orders. (establishing Divisional sports clubs and District associations 
within at least one District per year and providing infrastructure for the sports related to their association)
 the Director General of sports should take actions to suspend; temporarily or full-time, the right to exercise 
votes  or membership for Member Associations that do not fulfill the above requirements property.
Further,
 7. the said regulation is further amended as follows by inserting the section 6 (n) immediately after the section 
6(m) of the control of Participants in sports representing sri lanka, regulations No. 3 of 1974 published in 
the Gazette No. 130 dated 20th september 1974 amended by the regulations No. 2194/54 dated 23.09.2020 and               
No. 385/7a dated 20.01.1986 of the National association of sports.
  6 (n)
  as per the recommendations given by a board; appointed by the minister in charge of the subject, secretary to the 
ministry or Director General, in respect of an undisciplined behaviour or an act giving defamation to sri lanka 
or default of their duties and responsibilities done; in sri lanka or in a foreign country, by the athletes, managers 
and other officers participating in sports respresenting Sri Lanka, a punishment, probibition or suspension can be 
implemented against such athlete/s, manager/s or other officer/s or the association of sports.
eoG 12-0206
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.