

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2319$37 - 2023 fmnrjdß ui 14 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2023'02'14
No. 2319/37 -  tuesday,   february  14,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1a- G 38847 - 12 (02/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
ENGINEERING  COuNCIL, SRI  LANkA  ACT,  No. 4  Of  2017
reGuLatIONs made by the Minister of Irrigation under section 20(3), engineering Council, sri Lanka act, No. 4 of 2017.
  
 Roshan Ranasinghe (M.P.),  
 Minister of Irrigation.
Colombo,
15th January, 2023.              
REGuLATIONS
 1. these regulations may be cited as the appeal board regulations.
 2. the appeal board is empowered to allow or refuse appeals against the decisions pronounced by the engineering 
Council under section 16(5) of the act. 
 3. t o ascertain the appeal against the decision under section 16(5) of the act, the appeal must be tendered or 
lodged within 30 days from the date of receiving the decision.
 4. the appeal board is established to consider whether there is any breach or violation of principles of natural justice 
during the proceeding of a disciplinary inquiry or during the consideration of an application for registration as an 
engineering practitioner by the engineering Council.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'14
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2023
2a
 5. the engineering Council should make arrangements to carry out sittings of the appeal board and facilitate them 
to proceed with their duties.
 6. the Chairman of the appeal board can obtain the necessary clerical staff with the remuneration out of the fund of 
the Council.
 7. When an appeal is being lodged or tendered the appeal board must issue notice to all parties to present before the 
appeal board with their representatives if any, specifying a date, time, and the place of the sittings of the appeal 
board under the registered postal cover.
	 8.	 On	 the	day	of	the	first	sitting,	the	Appeal	Board	must	ask	the	parties	to	tender	their	written	legal	submissions	within	
4	weeks	from	the	day	of	the	first	sitting.
 9. the Complaint secretary of the engineering Council of sri Lanka is allowed to represent the Council in an appeal 
with or without the assistance of a lawyer.
 10. after tendering the written submissions from all the parties, the appeal board must pronounce to furnish an oral 
argument if the board thinks that it is necessary.
	 11.	 After	considering	written	and	oral	submissions	the	Appeal	Board	has	to	fix	the	appeal	for	order	and	it	should	
pronounce as directed regulation number 14(i) or (ii) of these regulations.
  
	 12.	 If	there’s	any	legal	objection	that	relates	to	an	appeal,	that	objection	must	be	mentioned	to	the	Board	very	first	or	
soon after it is revealed, without delay.
 13. the legal objections can be considered with separate written or oral submissions if the appeal board thinks that it’s 
necessary.
 14. (i) If, when an appeal is being lodged and the board thinks that there is no proper legal base or jurisdiction or is 
against	the	rules,	regulations,	and	laws	of	the	country,	the	Board	is	empowered	to	refuse	the	Appeal	in	the	first	
instance	without	calling	the	Appeal	on	the	first	calling	date.	If	the	Board	decides	to	refuse	the	Appeal	for	the	
above-mentioned reasons, the board must acknowledge the engineering Council of sri Lanka and the appellant 
about the decision of refusal with reasoning.
  (ii) When the board pronounces a conclusive order regarding the appeals board must take steps to acknowledge all 
parties including the appellant ant in writing. the orders must consist of reasons for arriving at such order and 
they must be sent to the parties under the registered postal cover.
 15. the appeal board members are entitled to be paid suitable remuneration out of the fund of the engineering Council 
in the concurrence of the Minister of finance.
 16. In these regulations - 
  act means the engineering Council sri Lanka act, No. 4 of 2017;
  ‘‘appeal board” or “appeals board” or  “board” refers to the appeal board established under act No. 4 of 2017 
“engineering Council” or “Council” or ‘‘engineering Council, sri Lanka” or “engineering Council of sri Lanka”  
refers to the engineering Council of sri Lanka establishied under act No. 4 of 2017.
eOG 02 - 0144
PRinTeD aT The DePaRTMenT oF goVeRnMenT PRinTing,  sRi LanKa.