

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
   
 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 06
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... ––
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ...  ––
  
 
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"419 - 2025 ckjdß ui 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2025'01'10            
 No. 2,419 - FRiDAy , JANUAR y 10, 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtiON  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  31st January, 2025 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th  January, 2025.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.”  
 k. G. Pradeep Pushpa Kumara,  
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
02nd January, 2025.
 this Gazette can  be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
05 - B 82644  - 333 (01/2025)
Page Page


<!-- page 2 -->

 iii fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'01'10
Part III – GAzETTE  OF ThE DEMOcRATIc SOcIALIST  REPuBLIc OF SRI LANkA – 10.01.2025
06
Land Development ordinance notices
PRiNtED   At  thE  DEPARtmENt  OF  GOvERNmENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LANkA .
LAnD  commISSIoneR  GeneRAL'S  DePARTmenT
notice for cancellation of the Grants, Issued under the Sub-Section (4) of Section 19 of The Land Development 
ordinance (Section 104)
A. A. D. C. Nadeeshani Amarasinghe, Divisional Secretary of the Divisional Secretariat of kelaniya in the District of 
Gampaha in Western Provincial council hereby inform that, the necessary actions are being taken to cancel the grant, 
given in terms of Section 19 (4) of the Land Development Ordinance by his Excellency The President on 1990 March 26 
the bearing No. —.ï$m%$10782˜ to miss kaludurage mudiyanselage maginona of k/13, Nahena, hunupitiya, Wattala and 
registered on 1991 January 08 under the No. c1/102 at colombo District Registrar Office, under the Section 104 of the 
same Ordinance as it has been reported that there is no successor for the land, mentioned in below Schedule owing to the 
reason either non availability of a person who legally entitles for the succession or she dislike for being a successor once 
such person is available. in case of any objection, with this regard are available this should be informed me in written on or 
before 31.01.2025.
Schedule
  The portion of State Land in "Nahenawatta" containing in extent about 0.019 hectare, - Roods, - Perches, out of extent 
marked at 25 as depicted in the field sheet bearing L6/48 made by Surveyor Generals in the blocking out plan bearing No. P. 
Plan  —.ï 424˜ made by  in the diagram bearing No. – made by Surveyor Generals and kept in charge  of Surveyor Generals 
which situated in the village called "hunupitiya" belongs to the Grama Niladhari Division of 256/A, hunupitiya South in 
– "Pattuve/ korale" coming within the area of authority of kelaniya Divisional Secretariat in the Administrative District of 
Gampaha as located.
On the North by :  Entrance Road;
On the East by :  Lot No. 34;                    
On the South by :  Lot No. 30 ½, Entrance Road and Lot No. 20 1/2;
On the West by :  Lot No. 26.
 A.A.D.c. Nadeeshani Amarasinghe,
 Divisional Secretary,
 mahara, kadawatha.
 
06 th June 2023.
01-41