

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2393$11 - 2024 cQ,s ui 15 jeks i÷od - 2024'07'15
No. 2393/11 -  moNday,   July  15,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6766 - 354 (07/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
l.d.B. 5/2021
PETROLEum   RESOuRCES   ACT,   No.   21  Of   2021
ReGulatioNs made by the minister of Power and energy under section 48 read with section 19(2) of the Petroleum 
Resources act, No. 21 of 2021.
 Kanchana WijeseKera,
 minister of Power and energy.
Colombo,
15th July, 2024.
Regulations 
 1. these regulations may be cited as the Petroleum Resources (Joint study agreements) Regulations No. 3 of 2024.
 2. the Petroleum development authority of sri lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “authority”) may call for 
expression of interest (hereinafter referred to as the “interest proposal”) from any person who is desirous of engaging 
in and carrying out one or more joint studies with the Authority, within one or more designated areas, defined and 
demarcated for joint studies (hereinafter referred to as the designated block) by the authority, in accordance with the 
Petroleum Resources exploration and development Block map of sri lanka.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2024
2a
 3. any person who is desirous of engaging in and carrying out a joint study with the authority within one or more 
designated blocks, shall be required to submit his interest proposal in a Form set out in schedule hereto, together 
with the payment of hundred united  state dollars (100us$) as an administrative fee, to the director-General of the 
authority (in these regulations referred to as the “director General”)
 4. the interest proposal referred to in regulation 3, shall include the following information:
 (a) proposed work program of the joint study be undertaken jointly with the authority for one or more designated 
blocks by the authority;
 (b) expected time frame for completion of the joint study for which the interest proposal is or is to be submitted;
 (c) past experience in handling similar studies (supported by documentary evidence);
 (d) financial capability to undertake the joint study (supported by documentary evidence);
 (e) designated block be selected for joint study with the authority;
 (f) proof of having experienced personnel capable of performing key functions required for the joint study; and
 (g) proof of having equipment and resources essential for the execution of the work programmes of the joint study.
 5. upon the receipt of an interest proposal under regulation 2, the director General shall refer all such interest proposals 
to a Committee appointed by the Board of directors of the authority (in these regulations referred to as the “Board”) 
consisting of the following persons for evaluation of each interest proposal:-
 (a) one person among the Board of directors who shall be the Chairperson of the Committee;
 (b) one person nominated by the director General among the staff of the authority who is knowledgeable in 
handling similar studies on oil exploration;
 (c) one person nominated by the secretary to the ministry of the minister assigned the subject of energy not 
below the rank of senior assistant secretary;
 (d) one officer of the Department of Public Enterprises or Department of National Planning of the General Treasury  
not below the rank of director nominated by the secretary to the ministry of the minister assigned the subject 
of Finance; and
 (e) one officer of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka not below the rank of Director, nominated by the Governor of the 
Central Bank of sri lanka.
 6. upon the receipt of the interest proposal to the Committee under regulation 5, the Committee shall submit its report 
within a period of one month to the director General and the director General shall submit such report along with 
his observations on the findings and recommendations of the Committee, for the consideration of the Board.
 7. (1)  upon receipt of the report and the observations under regulation 6, the Board may -
 (a) grant approval to proceed, if the Board is satisfied with the findings and recommendations of the 
Committee and the observations of the director General;
 (b) request the Committee to re-consider such areas and re-submit the evaluation report along with its 
findings and recommendations, if the Board is of the view that further aspects of applicants shall be 
looked into; or

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2024
3a
 (c) reject the evaluation report in total or part, with reasons assigned therefor, if the Board is of the view that 
the findings of the Committee do not reflect the requirement of the Authority.
  (2)  if there is a disagreement among the members of the Board on the recommendation of the Committee, the 
majority decision of the Board shall prevail.
 8. upon approval of the Board under regulation 7, the director General shall initiate discussions with the selected 
person (hereinafter referred to as the “Joint study Partner”) for the relevant designated block (hereinafter referred to 
as the “specified designated block”) on terms and conditions especially applicable to the specified designated block 
for joint study, including the terms of payment specified in regulation 9, for the finalization of the draft Joint Study 
agreement.
 9. (1)  the joint study licence fee of thousand united states dollar Currency (1000 us$) or in any other foreign 
currency acceptable by the Central Bank of sri lanka shall be paid.
  (2)  the compulsory payment of annual ground rental, at the rate of twenty united states dollars (20 us$) or any 
other foreign currency acceptable by the Central Bank of sri lanka per one square kilometer unit, shall be paid 
for the entire square area of the specified designated block.
  (3)  the licence fee as applicable for permitting accessibility to the petroleum data shall be determined according 
to the provisions of the Petroleum Resources (data licensing) Regulations No. 2 of 2024 published in the 
Gazette Extraordinary No. 2374/17 dated march 5, 2024.
 10. it shall be the duty of the authority to issue such petroleum data to the Joint study Partner, upon payment made 
by the Joint study Partner in united states dollar currency or any other foreign currency acceptable by the Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka before execution of the Joint Study Agreement for the specified designated block.
 11. Where two or more persons are interested in the same “designated block” for joint study within a period in which 
the same designated block under question is open, the authority may contact the relevant Joint study Partners and 
request them to consolidate their individual interest proposals into a single Joint interest Proposal.
 12. if the Joint study Partners are unable to reach a mutual agreement on the same designated block, the authority may 
take decision to assign the relevant designated block for joint study to the most suitable Joint study Partner. the 
decision of the authority which shall be taken after considering the proposed scopes of work and any other material 
factors, and be considered as final and conclusive.
 13. (1)  Upon selecting a suitable Joint Study Partner for the specified designated block under regulation 8, the Board 
shall submit the relevant draft Joint study agreement for the consideration of the minister.
  (2)  The Minister shall upon being satisfied with the terms and conditions of the Joint Study Agreement, grant the 
approval to enter into Joint study agreement.
 14. The Joint Study for a specified designated block shall be subjected to the terms and conditions specified in the Joint 
Study Agreement in any matter including drilling, geotechnical, environmental, local content, and data confidentiality 
as applicable to the proposed scope of work. The Authority may amend such terms and conditions specified in the 
Joint study agreement with the prior notice to the Joint study Partner.
 15. Once started the work program in the specified designated block according to the Joint Study Agreement, if the Joint 
Study Partner finds -
 (a) that commercially viable hydrocarbon deposits exist within any part of the specified designated block covered 
by the Joint study agreement, the Joint study Partner shall, by written notice to the authority, request to 
commence exclusive negotiations on a Petroleum Resource Agreement subject to such conditions as specified 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2024
4a
in the Joint Study Agreement in respect of the specified designated block for joint study. These discussions 
shall be concluded within one year unless extended by mutual agreement; and
 (b) any other energy potential or mineral potential within the specified designated block covered under the Joint 
Study Agreement, the Joint Study Partner shall by a written notice inform the Authority regarding such findings, 
and the Authority shall inform regarding such findings to the relevant regulatory entity. The relevant regulatory 
entity shall independently take its decision pertaining to such energy potential or mineral potential which shall 
be final.
 16. (1)  the authority and the Joint study Partner shall endeavor to enter into a Petroleum Resources agreement for 
the specified designated block for the joint study within the period during which the Joint Study Agreement is 
in force.
  (2)  Where the authority and the Joint study Partner fail to come to an agreement under paragraph (a) of regulation 
15, the Authority may call for investment proposals locally or internationally for all or any part of such specified 
designated block.
 17. in these regulations unless the context otherwise requires -
“Petroleum Resources exploration and development Block map of sri lanka” means the map which describes 
the areas demarcated by the Petroleum development authority of sri lanka for the purpose of 
exploration, development and production of hydrocarbons and revised from time to time, which shall 
be used as the source of demarcation of areas in which agreements covering hydrocarbon exploration 
and other integrated energy projects conducted between the state and one or more contractors or 
service providers or scientific institutions entered into, with the objective of studying and evaluating 
the energy potential of a defined area;
“Joint study agreement” shall have the same meaning assigned to it by the Petroleum Resources act, No. 21 
of 2021;
“Joint study Partner” means the person selected by the authority, following the selection process as described 
in regulations 1 to 6 by inviting interest proposals through public notification from any person 
who wishes to join with the Authority to undertake a joint study for a designated area defined and 
demarcated for a joint study; and
“Petroleum Resources agreement” shall have the same meaning assigned to it by the Petroleum Resources 
act, No. 21 of 2021.
 18. the Petroleum Resources (Joint study agreement) Regulations No. 1 of 2023 published in the Gazette Extraordinary 
No. 2313/47 dated January 5, 2023 is hereby rescinded without prejudice to any thing duly done under those 
regulations.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2024
5a
 (Regulation 3)
SCHEDULE
INTEREST PROPOSAL fOR A JOINT STuDY OR JOINT STuDIES
1.1 description of the methodology, technology and Work Plan for executing the Jsa
Joint study Proponent Report (JsPR) to provide a description of the methodology, technology and proposed work plan 
for performing the study. The benefit of any proprietary systems proposed should be explained.
1.2 minimum Work Programme
1.2.1 estimated direct expenditure
JsPR must submit a minimum Work Programme for each block/ area of interest and described as follows:
Quantity/ Cost
unit uSD ($)
e.g. (1) seismiC suRVeys
             (a) 3-d (aPi) in sq km
             (b) 2-d (aPi) in line km
Total Estimated Direct Expenditure
1.2.2_indirect expenditure
JSPRs may also describe the cost/benefit of other joint activities or opportunities offered to the GOSL under the terms 
of this agreement, introducing phases or contingencies as required. JsPR should submit such details in the format below 
for each block/ area of interest.
Quantity/ Cost
unit uSD ($)
..................................................................................
Total Estimated Indirect Expenditure
1.3 Activity (Work) Schedule
1.3.1 Project timeline

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2024
6a
Activity (Work) Timeline
1.3.2 Completion and submission of Reports
Reports Dates/ milestones
1. interim Progress Reports
     (1 year from effective date)
2. additional interim Progress Reports, as required
3. draft Final Report
    (Within 27 months of effective date)
4. Final Report
     (Within 36 months from effective date)
5. other*
* JsPRs should describe any other forms of deliverables from the Joint study as known to them.
1.4 JSPRs’ Previous Experience in Similar Environments or Projects
Please describe and provide supporting evidence as necessary.
1.5 JSPRs’ References
1.5.1 Description of the JSPR’s Organization / Institution
The following is the typical information required from the JSPRs, subject to the nature of the organization or institution. 
in the case of any public listed companies’ submission of (c), (e), (f), (k), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p) are not required. in the 
case of a consortium, each member of the consortium should provide this information separately.
Parameters information required
(a) the JsPR's legal name
(b) in case of a consortium, legal name of the lead member of the Consortium

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2024
7a
(c) Place of incorporation or registration (Please provide a Certificate of 
incorporation and a copy of the memorandum and articles of association as 
applicable)
City
State
Country
Year
Zip
(d) Authorized representative of the company or authorized leader or the Consortium 
for communication on the RFP
Name
Designation
Address
Tel.
E-mail
(e) Names and address of the Chairman and Board of directors Name
Address
Tel.
E-mail
(0 The name and address of the Chief Executive Officer Name
Address
Tel.
E-mail
(g) structure and details of the group, if any. to which the JsPRs belong including 
information on affiliates/ parent company
(h) the business activities of the company
(i) Name(s) and address of Parent Company (Where applicable) Name
Address
Tel.
E-mail
(j) is Petroleum exploration and production activity included in the memorandum 
and articles of association of the lead  member of the consortium?
Yes/No
(k) Submit annual report including the audited balance sheets and profit & loss 
statements along with the schedule of notes forming part of the balance sheet 
for the last three years in english, as applicable
Refer Item 
(1.5.2) below
(l) Number of total corporate employees of the Company
(m) details of judgments/ arbitral awards against Company or Consortium 
members or any corporate member of the group of companies to which the 
bidder belongs in the past 10 years. Please specify the nature of the case

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2024
8a
(n) Has the JsPRs previously worked in sri lanka? if yes, provide 
details
(o) international agency Rating, if applicable
(p) Company Hse policy/case JsPRs
(q) JsPRs Consortium agreement Yes/No
(r) identity of key shareholders in the case of private limited 
liability companies.
1.
2.
3.
1.5.2 Proof of Financial Capability
Please attach proof of financial capability demonstrating the ability to execute the Minimum Work Programme. This 
may be in the form of audited accounts with financial data for previous 3 years, letters of good standing from banks or 
letters of conditional funding from financial institutions.
1.6 Profile of Key Personnel
Name Position Description of Role 
(with respect to the proposed Work 
Programme)
1.7 Submission of Interest Proposal
application together with payment shall be made as per the directions of the director General of the authority, on  
dg@pdasl.gov.lk or postal address;
Petroleum development authority of sri lanka,
level 6, Ceylinco House, Janadhipathi mawatha, Colombo 01,
sri lanka.
25/03/2024
eoG 07 - 0144
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.