

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  02.08.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2134$56 - 2019 wf.daia;= ui 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'08'02
No. 2134/56 - FRIDAY,  AUGUST  02, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A   PG  4606— 517 (08/2019)
L.D.B. 5/1991
SRI  LANKA  TELECOMMUNICATIONS   ACT,  No.  25  OF  1991
REGULATIONS made by the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka under Section 71(2)(a) read with
Section 5(f) of the Sri Lanka Telecommunications  Act, No. 25 of 1991 as amended by Act, No. 27 of 1996.
MAITHRIPALA S IRISENA,
President.
Colombo,
19th July 2019.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Subscriber SIM Cards (Subscriber Identification Modules - SIM)
regulations No. 01 of 2019, and shall come into force upon publication in the Government Gazette of Sri
Lanka.
2. These regulations shall apply to every operator licensed under Section 17(2) of the Act to provide digital
cellular mobile services.
3. Every operator shall comply with the regulatory measures as specified in Schedule I and II hereto for the purpose
of registration of SIM Cards of retail subscribers and corporate subscribers respectively.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  02.08.2019
2A
4. Every operator shall submit to the Telecommunications  Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred
to as the “TRCSL”) the details of the procedure complied by such operator for the purpose of implementing the
measures set out in such Schedule I and II hereto.
5. TRCSL may, from time to time issue directives to the operators for the proper implementation of these
regulations.
6. For the purpose of these regulations -
“Act” means the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991 ;
“corporate subscriber” means any person under whose company name, SIM cards are registered by the
operators for the use of its employees, agents or any other authorized person ;
“person” means a body incorporated or unincorporated ;
“retail subscriber” means any person under whose personal name, SIM Card is registered by the
operators ;
“SIM” means the Subscriber Identification Modules ;
“SIM Card” means the card or the chip issued to a subscriber containing the Subscriber Identification
Modules.
(Regulation 2 )
SCHEDULE  I
R
EGISTRATION OF R ETAIL S UBSCRIBERS
Every operator shall comply with the following regulatory measures when registering retail subscriber SIM cards.
1. Obtain a duly filled and signed application form from the retail subscriber. (Mandatory details required : National
Identity Card Number, permanent address, new telephone number)
2. The application referred to in paragraph 1 shall accompany the following :–
(a) a photocopy of the National Identity Card or Driving License or Valid Passport duly signed by the
subscriber ;
(b) a duly signed photograph of the retail subscriber with his or her signature where the photograph of the
retail subscriber in the National Identity Card or Driving License or Passport is not clear ;
3. (a) the address in the National Identity Card shall be considered as the permanent address.
(b) where the address in the National Identity Card is different to the present address of the retail subscriber
or where the Driving License or Passport is accepted in place of the National Identity Card, the retail
subscriber shall be required to submit billing information in proof of such person’s address.
4. National Identity Card number of the retail subscriber shall be entered in the operator’s database or network
prior to activation of the SIM.
5. Scanned copies of the documents listed in items 1, 2 and 3 shall be uploaded on the operator’s database or
network within one month of the SIM Card activation as and when required by an authorized officer.
6. Update the subscriber details referred to in paragraph 1, 2 and 3 in accordance with paragraph 5 from time to
time and submit such details to an authorized officer when requests for such information.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  02.08.2019
3A
7. Every operator is required to provide access to the database or network as and when required by TRCSL, to obtain
information and data of a subscriber.
8. Every operator is required to disconnect the telephone connection if the instructions set out in paragraph 5, are
not followed within one month from the date of SIM Card activation.
(Regulation 2 )
SCHEDULE   II
REGISTRATION OF C ORPORATE S UBSCRIBERS
Every operator shall comply with the following regulatory measures when registering corporate subscriber SIM Cards.
1. Obtain an application form or agreement seeking a corporate subscriber SIM Card to a new telephone corporate
account, under a corporate package duly signed by an authorized officer of the corporate subscriber.
2. The application referred to in paragraph 1 shall accompany the following :-
(a) a true copy of the certificate of Business Registration ;
(b) list of details with Name, Number of National Identity Card or number of Driving License or number of
Passport, permanent address and present address of employees of the corporate subscriber obtaining
connections under the corporate package.
3. Business Registration Number of the corporate subscriber shall be entered in the operator’s database or network
prior to the activation of the corporate subscriber SIM Cards.
4. Scanned copies of the documents listed in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall be uploaded on the operator’s database or
network within one month of the SIM Card activation as and when required by an authorized officer.
5. Where a corporate subscriber using a SIM Card leaves the registered business entity, the connection under the
corporate package shall be disconnected.
6. Details of a corporate subscriber under corporate package shall be updated in accordance with paragraph 4 from
time to time and submit such details as and when required by an authorized officer.
7. Every operator is required to provide access to the database or network as and when required by TRCSL to
obtain information and data of a subscriber.
8. Every operator is required to disconnect the telephone connection if the instructions set out in paragraph 4 are
not followed within one month from the date of SIM Card activation.
08 - 655
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.