

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 358
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 340
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"007 – 2017 fmnrjdß ui 17 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'02'17
No. 2,007 –  fRiday ,  fEbRuaRy  17, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th March, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd  february, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
337
N. B.– Part ii of the Gazette No. 2,006 of 09.02.2017 was not published.
Note.– civil Procedure code (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of  the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of february 09, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
338
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
339
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
340
Posts – vacant
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR /vOLuNTEER  AIR  
fORCE  AIRmEN /AIRWOmEN v ACANCIES
V acaNciES exist in the Regular force of the Sri Lanka 
air force for airmen/airwomen in the trades are given 
below :
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :–
 1. aeronautical Engineering trades (Male/female) :
  (a) air frame Mechanic,
  (b)  aero Engine Mechanic, 
  (c) aero Electrical and instrument Mechanic,
  (d) Safety Equipment.
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings  including ordinary passes 
in Sinhala/t amil, English Languages, Mathematics and 
Science. a credit pass for Mathematics/Science is essential. 
2. General engineering Trades (Male) : 
  (a) armament Mechanic   
  (b) Motor transport Mechanic 
  (c) Surface tech 
  (d) Sheet Metal Worker
  (e) t ech Wood
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings  including ordinary passes 
in Sinhala/t amil, English Languages, Mathematics and 
Science. a credit pass for Mathematics/Science will be an 
added qualification. 
3. electronics and Telecommunication engineering 
Trades :
  (a) air Radio technician (Male) 
  (b) t elecommunication technician (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including ordinary passes 
in Sinhala/t amil, English Languages, Mathematics and 
Science. a credit pass for Mathematics/Science is essential. 
   (c) air communicator (Male)
  (d) t elephonist (Male/female) 
  (e) computer technician (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including ordinary passes in 
Sinhala/tamil and English Languages. 
4. Medical Trades (Male/Female) : 
 (a) Nursing assistant (Male/female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination at not more than two sittings including simple pass 
in English Language and credit passes in Sinhala/t amil/Mathematics/Science and one other subject. Having 
following passes at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination from Science/Maths Stream in one sitting will be added 
advantage for selection and a qualification for advance training under Ministry of Health Services mentioned 
therein. 
Having credit pass for English in G. c. E. (o/L) Examination  - Nursing diploma (Male/female)
 with simple 03 passes for bio/Maths/agriculture streams in 
 G. c. E. (a/L) Examination 
 
Having credit pass for English in G. c. E. (o/L) Examination  - Pharmacist/
 with simple passes for biology/combined Maths/Physics/  Medical Laboratory technologist  
agriculture and credit pass for chemistry   (Male/female)
Having credit pass for English in G. c. E. (o/L) Examination  - E.c.G./E.E.t. (Male/female) 
 with simple passes for chemistry, Physics/agriculture and   EEG technician (Male)
 credit pass for biology/combined Maths  
Having credit pass for English in G. c. E. (o/L) Examination  - occupational therapist X Ray 
 with simple passes for chemistry, biology/combined Maths   t echnician/Physiotherapist
 and credit pass for Physics   ophthalmic tech (Male)

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
341
 (b) dental assistant (Male/female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including ordinary pass 
in English Language and credit passes in Sinhala/
tamil Language, Mathematics, Science and one 
other subject. Having three passes at the  G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination from Science Streams in one 
sitting (biology/combine Mathematics/chemistry/
Physics or agriculture) will be added advantage for 
selection and a qualification for advance training 
under Ministry of Health Services. 
5. administrative trades (Male/female) : 
 (a) administrative assistant
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings  
including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
tamil and English Languages and a credit in 
Mathematics/Science/business and account 
Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft 
Office package) will be an added qualification. 
 (b) accounts assistant
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings  
including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/tamil and 
English Languages and a credit in Mathematics/
business and account Studies. Knoweldge on 
computers (Microsoft Office package) will be an 
added qualification. 
6. operations trades : 
 (a) operations air (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings  
including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/t amil 
Languages and a credit pass in English Language.
 (b) fire fighter (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings  
including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/t amil 
and English Languages. a valid heavy vehicle 
driving license will be an added qualification. 
 (c) operations Ground (Male)
 (d) dog Handler (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings  
including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/t amil 
Language.
7. Logistic trades : 
 (a) Logistic assistant (Male/female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
tamil and English Languages and a credit in 
Mathematics/Science/business and account 
Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft 
Office package) will be an added qualification.
 (b) a viation fuel quality controller (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
tamil and English Languages and a credit in 
Mathematics/Science/business and account 
Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft 
Office package) will be an added qualification.
 (c) cabin attendance (female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/t amil  
Language and a credit in English language. 
fluent in English language with strong 
communication skill and having experience 
as a cabin assistant with pleasing personality 
will be an added qualification. Capable of 
reach to 212cm height by both hands (using 
toe).
 (d) catering assistance (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/t amil  
Languages. 
 (e) uniform out fitter (female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/t amil  
Language. operating of JuKi machine (over 
lock, button hole, button attached, double 
needle, bar tack), cutting and designing 
of graments without blocks and technical 
knowledge on JuKi machine will be an added 
qualification. 
8. Police (Male/female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including ordinary passes in 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
342
Sinhala/tamil  and English Languages. Priority will be 
given to male and female candidates those who measured 
5'8"and 5'6" or above in height respectively. 
9. Musician (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination at 
not more than two sittings (additional and optional subjects 
not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/
tamil  Language. ability of singing and playing of musical 
instrument will be considered as special qualification. 
10. Physical training instructor (Male/female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
at not more than two sittings including an ordinary pass 
in Sinhala/t amil Language. outstanding competencies 
in National Level sports will be special qualification at 
selection. the practical test should pass all the candidates 
who were passing the preliminary interviews. 
Vacancies exist in the V olunteer force of the Sri Lanka 
air force for airmen/airwomen in the trades are given 
below : 
2. (a) trades and Educational, Professional 
Qualifications required : 
 (1) Logistic trades
 (a) Ground Steward (Male/female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/t amil 
Language. Priority will be given to candidates 
who have an ordinary pass for English or fluent 
in English language with communication skill. 
Experience and professional qualification in 
field of hospitality at Tourist Board Authorized 
Hotels (ex. : Waiter/barman/House Keeper/
Room boy/Room attendance/Room Steward). 
Vacancies exist in the Regular Sri Lanka air force for 
airmen/airwomen of the in the trades are given below as 
direct Entry.
3. (a) Trades and Educational, Professional Qualifications 
required : 
 (1) administrative trades
 (a) audit assistant (Regular - Male/female)
 (1) Passed the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination from 
commerce Stream.
 (2) Passed intermediate Level (Stage ii) of 
association of accounting technician 
(aat) of Sri Lanka or completion of 
second year of High National diploma in 
accounting (HNda) or High National 
diploma in commerce (HNdc) of Sri 
Lanka technical college. 
 (3) Experience in the relevant field will be 
added advantage. 
 * Selected candidates will be enlisted to the 
rank of their professional qulaifications and 
experience. 
 (2)  Electronics and telecommunication Engineering  
trades (Regular - Male)
 (a) air Radio t echnician.
 (b) t elecommunication technician.
 (1) Passes in 06 subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/t amil, 
English Languages, Mathematics and 
Science. a credit pass for Mathematics/
Science is essential ;
and
 (2) Successful completion of two year fulltime 
National Certificate Course in Engineering Craft 
Practice (Electronics/t elecommunications/
Electrical) at a Technical College recognized 
by the Ministry of V ocational and technical 
training or equivalent. 
 * Selected candidates will be enlisted to the 
rank of Leading aircraftsman. 
4. Other Requirements :-
 (a) Candidates must fulfill the following general 
conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka 
Regular/V olunteer air force :–
1. Nationality  : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2. Age   as at 20th May 2017 :
Not less than 18 years and not more than 23 years 
(Regular Male), 
Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years 
(Regular female),
Not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years 
- Ground Steward (V olunteer Male),

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
343
Not less than 18 years and not more than 25 years 
- Ground Steward (V olunteer female)
For Direct entry : 
Not less than 18 years and not more than 26 years 
- audit assistant (Male/ female),
Not less than 18 years and not more than 28 years 
- air Radio/tele tech (Male)
3. Height  :  5 feet 5 inches and above (Male) ;
   5 feet 3 inches and above (female)
4. Weight : 17< bMi < 26 (Male)
   17<bMi <25 (female)
   body Mass index   = Weight (kg)      
            Height2 (m) 
5. Vision Colour  :  cP 2
   Standard   
6. Visual Acuity :  6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
7. Chest  : 32"
8. Civil Status  : unmarried 
 (a) Regular airmen/airwomen candidates must 
be unmarried and not allowed to marry until 
the completion of two years from the date 
of enlistment and until one year after the 
completion of the basic trade training 
course and which ever is later). 
 (b) V olunteer airmen/airwomen candidates 
must be unmarried and not allowed to marry 
until the completion of the basic trade 
training course and whichever is later.
 (c) direct Entry airmen/airwomen are not 
allowed to marry until the completion of 
initial combat course.  
5. candidates who do not possess the required 
educational qualifications or fulfil the requirements of 
paragraph 01 “a” and paragraph 02 “a” or paragraph 03 “a”  
and paragraph 04 will be rejected. On arrival for the first 
interview the height, weight and vision will be measured. 
candidates whose height, weight chest and vision is below 
the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and 
who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. 
any candidate who may have a special skill or value to 
the service may at the discretion of the commander of the 
air force be considered even though he/she may not have 
the requisite height provided he/she possess the requisite 
academic and professional qualifications. 
6. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports. 
7. Conditions of Service :–
 (a)  airmen/airwomen will be governed by the air 
force act and other air force Regulations and 
orders with effect from the date of enlistment. 
 (b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and 
in the selected trades accordingly. they will be 
required to perform combat duties and any type 
of duty, day and night, even under very difficult 
conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad. 
8. Terms of engagement :–
 (a) Regular airmen and airwomen
  Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third 
class of the rank of aircraftsman/aircraftwomen/ 
leading aircraftsman/corpral in the Regular air 
force and shall be required to serve for twelve 
(12) years in which Eight (08) years will have to 
be served continuously whilst serving a further 
four (04) years in the Regular air force (Reserve) 
when called to do so. opportunities exist for 
suitable airmen/airwomen to extend for further 
service on completion of eight years of service on 
the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka 
air force. 
 (b) V olunteer airmen and airwomen
  Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third 
class of the rank of aircraftsman/aircraftwomen 
in the V olunteer air force and shall be required to 
serve for five (05) years. Opportunities exist for 
suitable airmen/airwomen to extend for further 
service on completion of five (05) years of service 
on the discretion of the commander of the Sri 
Lanka air force. 
9. Official Language Requirements.– the selected 
candidates must confirm to the Official Language Policy of 
the Government of Sri Lanka. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
344
10. Pay and Allowances:- 
 (a) Since a consolidated pay revision is in progress at present and same revision will continue upto year 2020 
followings are the amouns payable till 2020 :–
Year
Rank
2016 (Annum)
Rs. cts.
2017 (Annum)
Rs. cts.
2018 (Annum)
Rs. cts.
2019 (Annum)
Rs. cts.
2020 (Annum)
Rs. cts.
aircraftman 207,984.00 244,608.00 281,232.00 317,856.00 354,480.00 (7x300 -19x370)
Leading 
aircraftman
214,320.00 252,060.00 289.800.00 327,540.00 365,280.00 (4x300 -19x370)
corporal 220,656.00 259,512.00 298,368.00 337,224.00 376,080.00 (1x300-10x370 
-9x495)
Sergeant 227,808.00 267,996.00 308,184.00 348,372.00 388,560.00 (3x370-9x495 
-3x660)
flight Sergeant 232,848.00 273,996.00 315,144.00 356,292.00 397,440.00 (1x370-9x495 
-3x660)
Warrant Officer 242,352.00 285,204.00 328,056.00 370,908.00 413,760.00 (7x495-14x660)
Master Warrant 
Officer
271,452.00 319,404.00 367,356.00 415,308.00 463,260.00 (13x660)
 (b) Other Allowances : 
 (1) cost of living allowances - Rs. 7,800 per month. 
 (2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five years of service
 (3) Hardlying allowance - Rs. 20 per day. 
 (4) additional hard lying allowance - Rs. 3,880 per month for those serving in operational areas. 
 (5) Special allowance - i- Rs. 2,400 per month (Rs. 80 will be paid for per day).
 (6) interim allowance - Rs. 1,000 per month. 
 (7) uniform upkeep allowance - Rs. 170 per month. 
 (8) Ration allowance Rs. 14,213.70 per month (if permitted to live out Rs. 473.79 per day).
 (9) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (10) adjustment allowance as applicable. 
 (11) three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for airman/airwoman, spouse and children).
 (12) Reimbursement of bus fare for living in airman/airwoman to travel from the base/Station to the hometown 
once a month.
 (13) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (14) free medical facilities (including for families if applicable).
 (15) Married airman/air woman permitted to live -out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel from residence to 
place of work within 30 miles radius. 
 (16) Rent allowances for married airman/airwoman are not in occupation of a government married quarter. 
Sergeant and below Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 2,750 per month. and flight Sergeant and above Rs. 1,350 to 3,300.
 (17) accommodation - free for personnel living in. 
 (18) disturbance allowance - When proceeding on duty outside permanent station (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
 (19) Good conduct badge pay - Paid to personnel whose behavior and general conduct are maintained at a high 
standard. (Rs. 30.00 to Rs. 511.50 per month). 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
345
 (20) instructio nal pay - (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per 
month).
 (21) overseas allowances will be paid as per air 
force pay code.
 (c) Pensions/Gratuities payable in terms of the air 
force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and 
as amended from time to time. all airmen and 
airwomen are contributors to the Widows’ and 
orphans’ Pensions (armed force) Scheme. Rate 
of contributions are as per Widows’ and orphans’ 
Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 
1970. 
11. Instructions to Applicants :–
 (a) applications should be submitted in applicants 
own handwriting in terms of the from specified 
below. all cages of the application should be 
filled with much detail as possible. Applications 
should be sent by registered post addressed to 
“Command Recruiting Officer,  Sri Lanka Air 
force trade training School, Ekala, Kotugoda” 
so as to reach there not later than 1200 noon on 
28th february 2017. the envelope enclosing the 
application should be marked “application for 
Regular/V olunteer airmen/airwomen” on the top 
left corner. applications received at Sri Lanka air 
force, Ekala, Kotugoda after closing date and time 
and not in accordance with the requirement of this 
notification and not in registered post will not be 
considered. 
 (b)  candidates who are in Government Service/
corporations/ boards/ civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through 
their Heads of departments/corporations/
boards/civil Establishments and should bear a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will 
be released if selected. 
 (c)  candidates will be required to produce the originals 
of the following documents when interviews or 
called upon to do so:- 
 (1)  Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate 
issued for the purpose of the Education code 
will not be accepted).
 (2)  certificate in support of the educational 
qualifications required.
 (3)  Certificate for Trade/Technical training and/or 
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized 
institution will be an added advantage.
 (4)  Two recent certificates of character. One 
of these should be from the Principal of the 
last school attended and the other from the 
responsible person who has the know of the 
applicant for more than two years or from the 
present employer (if employed). 
 (5) Certificates in support of sports activities and 
cadetting etc.
 (d)  application of candidates who fail to produce 
document when required to do so will not be 
considered. 
 (e) No original documents or copies of document 
should be attached to the application form. 
 (f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
12. candidates considered suitable for the interview will 
be required to appear for an interview at their own expense 
before an air force Recruiting board. Such candidates will 
be informed individually of place, date and time. 
13. on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for interviews, he is to produce the National identity 
card. candidates who do not have the National identity 
card could produce some other form of the accepted 
identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted 
with out the National identity card. 
14. candidates likely to be suitable following their 
interviews will be required to present themselves before 
an air force Medical board. the required number of 
candidates per trade will be selected according to high 
marks merit at these interviews. 
15. any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence the selection of a 
candidate will result in disqulaification of such candidates. 
16. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after the selection. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
346
17. candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified. 
 K.V .b. Jayampathy,
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters, 
Sri Lanka air force, 
P.o. box 594, 
colombo.
aPPLicatioN  foR  aiRMEN/aiRWoMEN iN tHE 
SRi  LaNKa  aiR foRcE 
 1. full Name :––––––––––––.
  (according to National identity card) 
 2. National identity card Number :–––––––––––––.
 3. applied t rade :–––––––––––––.
 4. Postal address :–––––––––––––.
 5. Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
 6. Nearest air force Station :–––––––––––––.
 7. Nearest Police Station to Permanent address :–––––.
 8. district :–––––––––––.
 9. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
 10. G.S. division :–––––––––––––.
 11. telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
 12. date of birth :–––––––––––.
 13. age (as at 20th May 2017) :
  y ears :––––––––,  Months :–––––––,  days :––––––.
 14. Married or Single :–––––––––––––.
 15. Gender :–––––––––––––.
 16. Height : feet :––––––––––. inches :–––––––––.
 17. G. c. E. (o/L) Examination : 
 Year  Index No. Subjects Passed Grading  
 
 18. G. c. E. (a/L) Examination :
 Year  Index No. Subjects Passed Grading 
   
 19. Any special qualifications for the post :–––––––––––.
  (eg.– technical, training and Experience etc.)
 20. details of special achievements in sports :–––––––––.
 21. other achievements of note at school or with outside 
organizations :–––––––––––. 
 22. if previously applied for the armed forces or Police 
give details :–––––––––––.
 23. Have you been convicted or bound over by a civil or 
Military court ? if so, give details :–––––––––––.
 24. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name  Description Permanent Address 
 25. declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i declare on my honour that the answers given to the 
above questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief 
are correct. i have read and understood the procedure 
which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in 
respect of those candidates who are selected as airwomen 
in the Sri Lanka Regular air force pubilshed in the Gazette 
of the Republic of Sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
 date :––––––––––––.
 
12–701
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA    AIR  fORCE  OffICER  
vACANCIES 
VacaNciES exist for Male/female commissioned 
Officers in the regular/volunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air 
force in following branches. 
(a) technical Engineering branch, 
(b) Electronic Engineering branch, 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
347
(c) administrative branch, 
(d) Medical branch,
(e) administrative Veterinary branch, 
(f) administrative Legal branch, 
(g) administrative band branch.
2. applications are invited from those candidates 
possessing the professional qualifications given below :
(a) Technical Engineering branch :
  Technical Engineering Officer (Aeronautical) - 
Male (Regular) :
 * full time four (4) year bachelor degree in 
Aeronautical Engineering from a recognized 
university by the university Grant commission 
of Sri Lanka,
  (Selected candidates will be commissioned 
in the rank of Flight Lieutenant in keeping 
with their professional qualifications and 
experience). 
  Technical Engineering Officer (General) - 
Male (Regular) :
  full time four (04) years bSc in Mechanical/
Automobile Engineering from a recognized by 
the uGc of Sri Lanka university or three (03) 
years full time National diploma in technology 
(Ndt) in Mechanical Engineering from the 
university of Moratuwa or three and half (3 
1/2) years full time Higher National diploma 
in Mechanical Engineering (HNdE) from Sri 
Lanka institute of advanced technological 
Education with one (01) year post qualification, 
work experience in the Mechanical/automobile 
Engineering field. 
  (Selected candidates will be commissioned in 
the rank of Flight Lieutenant or Flying Officer 
in keeping with their professional qualifications 
and experience). 
(b) Electronics Engineering branch :
  Network Administrator - Male (Regular) :
 * four (4) years bSc Engineering degree in 
a computer related stream or three (3) year 
bSc degree in a computer related stream 
or bSc degree with computer Science as a 
major subject or HNd or NibM diploma 
or equivalent with sound knowledge and 
experience in Network administration. 
  Software Developer - Male (Regular) :
 * four (4) year bSc Engineering degree in 
a computer related stream or three (3) year 
bSc degree in a computer related stream 
or bSc degree with computer Science as a 
major subject or HNd or NibM diploma 
or equivalent with sound knowledge and 
experience in Software development using 
aSP.NEt and c#.NEt.
 * all candidates are required to sit for writing 
and a practical test. 
  (Selected candidates will be commissioned in 
the rank of Flight Lieutenant or Flying Officer 
in keeping with their professional qualifications 
and experience). 
 * All BSc qualification should be from 
universities recognised by the university 
Grant commission of Sri Lanka.
(c) Administrative branch :
  Administrative Officers - Male/Female 
(Regular)
 * bachelor degree in commerce/Management/
arts or equivalent with one (1) year post 
qualification experience in Management/
accounting ; or 
 * Fully qualified Chartered Accountants with 
one (1) year post qualification experience in 
auditing ; or 
 * one (1) year diploma in HRM with one (1) year 
post qualification experience in Management/
Accounting field and a minimum of six passes 
at the G. c. E. (o/L) examination including 
credit passes in English Language, Science of 
Mathematics and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/
tamil language in one sitting (additional and 
optional subjects not considered) ; or 
 * chartered intermediate exam with one (1) year 
post experience in Management/accounting 
and a minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. 
(o/L) examination including credit passes in 
English language, Science or Mathematics and 
an ordinary pass in Sinhala/t amil language in 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
348
one sitting (additional and optional subjects not 
considered). 
   (Selected candidates will be commissioned in 
the rank of Flying Officer or Pilot Officer in 
keeping with their professional qualifications 
and experience).
(d) medical branch 
  Medical Officers - Male (Regular/V olunteer)
 * flight Lieutenant : MbbS or equivalent with 
full registration with the Sri Lanka Medical 
council. 
(e) Administrative veterinary branch 
  Veterinary Officer - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
 * flight Lieutenant : bachelor of Veterinary 
Sciences from the university of Peradeniya or 
equivalent with Sri Lanka Veterinary council 
Registration. 
(f) administrative Legal branch 
  Legal Officer - Female (Regular/Volunteer)
 * attorney-at-Law of the Supreme court of Sri 
Lanka - Specialized and/or experienced in 
preparation of commercial contracts, Notarial 
documents, Memorandum of understanding, 
procurement procedures, court prosecution 
and handling disciplinary matters. 
   (Selected candidates will be commissioned 
in the rank of flight Lieutenant in keeping 
with their professional qualifications and 
experience).
(g) Administrative band branch 
  Band Master - Music Western (Military/Rock 
Band) - Male (Regular)
 * a minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination with four credits including credit 
pass in English language and an ordinary pass 
in Sinhala/tamil lanauge in one sitting ;
and 
 * Qualified up to grade five (5) or above of the 
Royal college or trinity college of Music 
London or equivalent qualifications.
 * ability to train and conduct Military band/
Rock band and a credit pass in Music at the 
G. c. E. (o/L) examination will be an added 
qualification. 
 * ability to compose music in western and 
oriental tradition as well as a sound knowledge 
on playing western and oriental instrument will 
be considered as a special qualification. 
  Band Master - Music eastern (Oriental 
Orchestra) - Male (Regular)
 * a minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination with four credits including credit 
pass in English langauge and an ordinary pass 
in Sinhala/tamil language in one sitting ; 
  and
 * degree in fine arts from the institute of 
aesthetic Education (Music) in Sri Lanka or 
passed final Level (Music) in National Dance 
and Music Examination of Sri Lanka or 
"Visharadha" Part ii level from "bahathkande" 
Music academy in india. 
 * ability to train and conduct oriental/orchestra 
and a credit pass in Music at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination will be an added qualification. 
 * ability to compose music in both oriental and 
western traditions as well as a sound knowledge 
on playing western and oriental instruments 
will be considered as a special qualification.
  Band Master - Cultural Drumming (Dance 
Troupe) - Male (Volunteer)
 * a minimum of six passes at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination with four credits including credit 
pass in English langauge and an ordinary pass 
in Sinhala/tamil langauge in one sitting ;
  and 
 * degree in fine arts from the institute of 
aesthetic education (dance) in Sri Lanka or 
passed final level (dance) in National dance 
and Music Examination of Sri Lanka. 
 * ability to train on traditional drum and foreign 
percussion will be considered as a special 
qualification. 
 * ability to create traditional and foreign 
percussion acts will be considered as a special 
qualification. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
349
 * a credit pass in dancing at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination will be an added qualification.
  (Selected candidates will be commissioned in 
the rank of Pilot Officer)
 
3. Other entry Reuirements :
 (a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (b) civil Status : Married/unmarried
 (c) Gender : Male/female (as applicable)
 (d) age : as at 20th May, 2017
 (1)  for technical Engineering 
  branch and Electronics 
  Engineering branch  - 18 to 30 years
 (2) for administrative branch, 
  Medcial branch administrative 
  Veterinary branch, administrative 
  Legal branch and administrative 
  band branch   - 18 to 35 years
 (e) Height : Male - 5' 6" and above
    (Medical Branch officer 5'5" 
and above)
    female - 5'4" and above
 (f) Weight : 17 < bMi < 26 Male
    17 < bMi < 25 female
     Weight (Kg)
    bMi = –––––––––
     Height2 (m)
 (g) chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
 (h)  colour Vision  : c P2
  Standard
 (i) Visual acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles)
    Medical branch
    (6/18 in each eye corrected 
visual acuity with spectacle 
should be 6/6 in each eye)
4. any candidate who may possesses special 
qualifications may at the discretion of the Commander of 
the air force be considered, even though he/she may not 
have the requisite height/weight provided he/she possesses 
the requisite professional qualifications. 
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical 
examinations as may be prescribed by the commander of 
the air force. 
6. due considerations will be given to current 
outstanding achievements in the field of sports. 
7. Official Language Requirements.– Selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may be made hereafter for giving effect 
to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in 
particular for implementing the provisions in the Official 
Language, act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the 
Regular/V olunteer force of the Sri Lanka air force in 
the rank of Pilot Officer, Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant 
or Squadron Leader as applicable in keeping with thier 
qualifications and experience. 
9.  Selected candidates will be required to undergo 
training at such places as decided  by the commander of 
the Air Force. If at any time during training, the officer 
is reported on by the authorities as being unsuitable for 
reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/her 
control, he/she will be liable to have his/her commission 
withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action 
in accordance with the Sri Lanka air force disciplinary 
Regulations. 
10. All officers are governed by the air force act and 
orders issued from time to time. 
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri 
Lanka air force are in terms of Sri Lanka air force 
Regulations published in Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th april 
1951 and as amended from time to time. in terms of Section 
10 of the Air Force Act, "Every officer shall hold his/her 
appointment during the President's Pleasure". However, 
an officer has no right to resign his/her commission 
unilaterally, but under provision of Section 11 of the air 
force act may be allowed by the President to do so. the 
provisions of any bond/agreement envisaging a period of 
obligatory service in respect of training and subsequent 
courses will not supersede the provisions of Section 11 of 
the air force act stated above. Retirement from the air 
Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the 
air force Pensions and Gratuities code. 
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training 
in any part of the world at any time. 
13. A single officer is required to live in the Officers 
Mess. He/She is provided with furnished accommodation 
and food. batman service will also be provided. a single 
officer's ration allowance and batman allowance are paid 
to the Mess. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
350
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as per the 
Establishment Code. Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled to a rental allowance as stated 
in para 15(d)(16).
15. (a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as follows :–
Year
Rank
2017
(Annum)
Rs. cts.
Adjustment Allowance 
2017 (Annum)
Rs. cts.
2020
(Annum)
Rs. cts.
Pilot Officer (Cadet) 319,404.00 68,796.00 463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) 346,764.00 64,476.00 502,860.00
Flying Officer 393,684.00 56,580.00 571,380.00 -(30x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
flight Lieutenant 459,996.00 45,996.00 667,500.00 - (24x16,020) = 
1,051,980.00
Squadron Leader 504,204.00 38,940.00 731,580.00 - (22x16,020) = 
1,084,020.00
 (b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers : 
Year
Rank
2017
(Annum)
Rs. cts.
Adjustment Allowance 
2017 (Annum)
Rs. cts.
2020
(Annum)
Rs. cts.
Preliminary Grade 448,944.00 47,760.00 651,780.00 (3x16,020 -7x16,140 
-2x19,560 -16x26,040)
Grade ii 482,148.00 42,420.00 699,660.00 (3x16,020 -7x16,140 
-2x19,560 -16x26,040)
Grade i 591,948.00 22,620.00 861,660.00 (3x16,020 -7x16,140 
-2x19,560 -16x26,040)
Specialist Grade 727,608.00 2,808.00 1,056,000.00 (12x32,400)
 (c) Other allowances applicable to Medical Officers : 
 (1) Pensionable allowances :
  Preliminary Grade - Rs. 1,700.00 per month
  Grade ii - Rs. 1,700.00 per month
  Grade i - Rs. 3,400.00 per month
  Specialist Grade - Rs. 3,400.00 per month
 (2) Non Pensionable allowances : 
  Preliminary Grade - Rs. 2,125.00 per month
  Grade ii - Rs. 1,700.00 per month
  Grade i - Rs. 400.00 per month
 (3) dat allowance - Rs. 35,000.00 per month
 (4) Extra duty payments :
  Preliminary Grade - Rs. 335.00 per hour
  Grade ii - Rs. 383.00 per hour
  Grade i - Rs. 528.00 per hour
  Specialist Grade - Rs. 628.00 per hour
 (5) Language proficiency allowance :
  Preliminary Grade - Rs. 1,071.00 per month
  Grade ii - Rs. 1,078.00 per month
  Grade i - Rs. 1,648.00 per month
  Specialist Grade - Rs. 2,016.00 per month

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
351
(6) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d) are 
to be calculated separately as applicable. 
 (d) Service  Allowances : 
 1. cost of living allowance Rs. 7,800 per month.
 2. incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after 
five years of service. 
 3. Hard living allowance Rs. 20 per day. 
 4. additional Hard living allowance Rs. 4,380 
per month for those serving in operational 
areas. 
 5. Special allowance (1) Rs. 3,100 per month           
(Rs. 100 will be paid for per day).
 6. interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month. 
 7. uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month. 
 8. batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if 
permitted to live out).
 9. Ration allowance Rs. 16,676.14 per month (if 
permitted to live out Rs. 537.94 per day). 
 10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 11. three sets of holiday railway warrants per year 
(for officer, spuse and children).
 12. an additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living 
in Messes to travel from the Mess to the 
hometown once a month. 
 13. free issue of uniforms and ancillary items. 
 14. free medical facilities (including for families 
if applicable). 
 15. Married officers permitted to liveout are 
entitled to a free bus pass to travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius. 
 16. Rent Allowance for married officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. 
Pilot Officer to Group Captain and above      
Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month. 
 17. service allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 
as applicable (payable to service Medical 
Officers in consideration to the number of 
complete year of service).
 18. additional Service allowance Rs. 1,500 per 
month (Applicable to service Medical officers 
only).
 19. 1/20 allowance - con pay x 1/20 x3 days 
(Maximum) per month (applicable to service 
Medical Officers only).
 20. Extra duty payments 120 hrs. (maximum) per 
month (applicable to service Medical Officers 
only).
 21. telephone bill allowances : 
   Specialist doctors - Rs. 8,000 per month
   doctors -  Rs. 4,000 per month
 22. Engineering allowances - Rs. 15,000 per month 
(applicable to Engineering Officers only).
 23. Veterinary allowances Rs. 7,500 per month 
(applicable to Veterinary to Officers only).
 
16. Pensions/Gratuities.- Payable in terms of the air 
force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. All officers are contributors to the 
Widows and orphans Pension (armed forces) Scheme. 
Rates of contributions are as per Widows and orphans 
Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970. 
17. Instructions to Applicants :
 (a) applications should be submitted in terms of the 
form specified below. All cages of the application 
should be completed neatly with as much details 
as possible. applications should be addressed 
to "Command Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air 
force trade training School, Ekala, Kotugoda" 
so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 
28th february 2017 under registered cover. the 
envelope enclosing the application should be 
marked "application for commission in the 
............................ branch" applications received 
after the closing date and not in accordance with 
the requirements of this notification and not in 
registered post mail will not be entertained. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
352
 (b)  candidates who are in Government Service/
corporations/boards/civil Establishments should 
forward their applications through their 
Heads of department/corporations/boards/
civil Establishments and should bear a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will 
be released if selected. 
 (c) applicants should attach to their applications 
copies of :
 1. Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
 2. Certificates of the highest academic and 
professional qualifications obtained ; 
 3. Certificates of character from at least two 
responsible persons who are personally 
acquainted with the applicant ;
 4. Certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc.
 5. Certificate in support of any claims made in 
the application. 
 
 * Note.– Originals of these certificates should be 
produced only if and when the applicant is 
called for the interviews. 
18. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to 
dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
19. Selection Interview :
 (a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfil the above conditions 
only. candidates so selected from the Preliminary 
interview will be required to undergo a medical 
test as may be prescribed by the commander of 
the Air Force. The final selection will then be 
made after an interview appointed by the Ministry 
of defence. 
 (b) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date of 
such interviews. No travelling or other expenses 
will be paid in this respect. 
 (c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he/she is to produce his/her 
National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons. 
 (d) candidates likely to be suitable following their 
final interviews will be required to present 
themselves before an air force Medical board.
 
 (e) any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his/her testimonial. 
Any form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate. 
 (f) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified. 
 
KVB Jayampathy,
 air Marshal, 
 commander of the air force. 
Headquarters, 
Sri Lanka air force, 
P. o. box 594, 
colombo 02. 
aPPLicatioN foR coMMiSSioN iN tHE 
SRi LaNKa REGuLaR/VoLuNtEER aiR foRcE iN 
tHE .......................................... bRaNcH
 1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
 2. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
 3. National  identity card Number :–––––––––––.
 4. branch applied :–––––––––––.
 5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
 6. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
 7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
 8. School attended :––––––––––––.
 9. Postal address :–––––––––––.
 10, E-male address  :–––––––––––.
 11. date of birth :–––––––––––.
 12. Height :–––––'––––––".
 13. district :–––––––––––.
 14. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 15. Grama Seva division and Number :–––––––––––.
 16. telephone Number :–––––––––––.
 17. civil Status :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
353
 18. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications 
obtained : 
 Name of  Type of  Year of  Subjects
 School/ examination examination passed 
 University   (including
    grading)
 ordinary Level
 advanced Level
 Professional 
  Qualifications
 other
 19. Particulars of employment since leaving School/
university (if applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer employment From        To 
 20. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present 
    address 
 father 
 Mother 
 21. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 22. details of current achievements in sports. (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates/
years etc. and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––.
 23. other achievements of note at School/university or 
with outside Organizations. (Give details with dates/
years etc.) :–––––––––––.
 24. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :––––.
 25. Have you applied earlier to joint the Sri Lanka air 
force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so 
give details and the outcome of such applications : 
–––––––––––.
 26. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 27. if earlier employed in a Government department or 
in the Public Sector/board/corporation (including 
the central bank, National bank, universities, Joint 
Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.,) 
reasons for termination of employment :––––––––––.
 28. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name Designation Postal Address 
 29. declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect 
of those candidates who are selected for commission in 
the Sri Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the 
Repubilc of Sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
02–700
–––––––––––––
PubLIC  SERvICES  COmmISSION 
Land Commissioner General's Department
REcRuitMENt foR tHE PoSt of LEGaL 
officER (EXEcutiVE SERVicES GRadE iii) oN 
oPEN baSiS
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the citizens of Sri 
Lanka with following qualifications, for the post of Legal 
Officer of Land Commissioner General's Department. 
Vacancies - 01.
01. Method of Recruitment .- applicants who obtained 
maximum marks from a structured interview conducted 
by an interview panel appointed by Public Services 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
354
Commission out of the applicants who have completed the qualifications mentioned in the notice will be recruited in 
accordance with the number of vacancies. Structured interview will be held in conformity with the marking scheme 
(under No. 6) approved by Public Services commission. 
02. Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational /Professional Qualifications :
  A Degree in Law from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission/have taken oath as 
a Lawyer of Supreme court. 
 (ii) experience :
  Should have an active professional service period not less than 03 years after taking oath as a Lawyer of 
Supreme court. 
 (iii) Physical Qualifications :
   Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to discharge duties of the post in any part of the 
island. 
 (iv) Other :
  * Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
  * Should be of excellent character,
  * Requisite qualifications should have been completed in every aspect as at the closing date.
03. Service occupying conditions and Service Conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent you should be subjected to a policy decision taken by the government about 
your pension scheme.
 (ii) The appointment is subjected to a probation period of three (03) years. The first efficiency bar 
examination should be passed within three years of the appointment to the legal officer Grade III. 
 (iii) As per the public administration Circular No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014, the language proficiency of 
the other official language in addition to the language of the medium of recruitment should be obtained. 
The officers who are recruited in the medium of a non official language should obtain the official 
language proficiency within the probation period. 
 (iv) this appointment is subjected to the procedural rules of the Public Service commission, the 
Establishment code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial Regulations and other 
departmental orders. 
04. Age limit.- applicants should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date for 
applications. 
05. Salary Scale.- Monthly salary scale entitled to this post, as per the Schedule i of the Public administration 
circular Number 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, is Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 -8x1,630 - 17x2,170 -Rs. 110,895 (SL-1-2016). you 
shall be paid as mentioned in the Schedule ii in conformity with that circular. 
(ex. : for the period of 01.01.2017 - 31.12.2017 the basic salary and the adjustment allowance shall be                  
Rs. 32,807 and Rs. 4,715 respectively. 
06. the structured interview shall be based on the following marking scheme : 
 Subject Maximum 
  Marks
  01 Additional Educational Qualifications  20
   Degree in Law from a university recognized by the government.
    - first class 20
    - Second class (upper) 15
    - Second class (Lower) 10

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
355
   First Class in the final year of Law College 15
   Second Class in the final year of Law College 10
   
   Note.– 10 marks should be given if the final examination is passed with Honors.
   (Maximum marks - for either the degree or law collage qualifications)
  02 Additional Professional Qualifications  15
   Masters in law  15
   Post Graduate degree in Law - academic period not less than one year 10
   Post Graduate Diploma in relevant field or Post Graduate Diploma in Law issued 
    by a recognized institute - Academic period not less than one year. 
   (05 marks each for one diploma - Maximum 15 marks)
   Diploma in relevant field issued by a recognized institute - Academic period not
    less than 06 months.
   (03 marks each for one diploma - Maximum 15 marks)
   Certificate Course in relevant field issued by a recognized institute - Academic 
    period not less than 03 months.
   (02 marks each for one diploma - Maximum 10 marks)
  03 Additional Experience  30
   Experience as an attorney-at-Law in public or private sector
   02 marks - for more than 06 months and less than a year. 
   Maximum 30 marks as 05 marks for each year.
   (Except to the 03 years of service period employed as  a lawyer to obtain the 
    basic qualification)
   (Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate issued by a 
   attorney-at-Law or President's counsel or a Judge with a service period not 
   less than 20 years.)
  04 Proficiency in English Language  15
   Post graduate/degree/post LLb degree/LLb degree obtained in English medium. 15
   (all relevant question papers should have been answered in English Medium.)
   English Language Diploma form a University recognized by University Grants  10
   Commission or an institute recognized by the government. (Academic period of 
   one year or 1500 hours.)
   Certificate course in English Language from a University recognized by 
   University Grants Commission or an institute recognized by the government.
 
    - 06 months/720 hours 07
    - 03 months/360 hours 05
   (Marks shall be given only to the highest qualification.)
  05 Information Technology Literacy  15
   information technology as a main subject of a degree from a university  15
   recognized by University Grants Commission.
 Subject Maximum 
  Marks

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
356
   Diploma in IT not less than one year or 1500 hours from an institute recognized  10
    by the government 
   Certificate Course in IT from an institute recognized by the government 
    - 06 months/720 hours 07
    - 03 months/360 hours 05
   (Marks shall be given only to the highest qualification)
  06 Skills shown at the interview  05
     Total  100
07. Identity of the candidate. – only  the applicants who have submitted the applications completed in every 
aspect will be invited for the structured interview. 
Original and duly certified copies of all the certificates should be submitted at the interview. 
Following documents will be accepted to confirm the identity at the interview.
 1. National identity card issued by the department of Registration of persons. 
 2. Valid Passport.
08. How to Apply : 
 (a) applications should be sent via registered post to reach the following address on or before 10.03.2017. 
the late submissions will be rejected :
  Land commissioner General, 
  Land commissioner General's department, 
  Rajamalwatta Road, 
  battaramulla. 
 (b) a  specimen of an application could be found at the end of this notice. applicants should prepare their 
applications in A4 Papers as 01-08 in the first page. 9-13 in the second page and 14-15.2 in the third 
page and complete in own handwriting. 
 (c) Envelope containing the application should be marked “Application for the post of Legal Officer of 
land commissioner General's department” in the top left corner. 
 (d) applicant's signature of the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/
Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/A Commissioned Officer of 
Army, Navy or Air Force/ An Officer in receipt of a monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 47,615 in a 
permanent post of public sector.
 (e) the applications from the applicants who are currently employed in Public Sector/Provincial Public 
Sector should be sent through the relevant heads of the department they are employed. 
 (f) applications not in the conformity with the specimen herewith will be rejected. any complaint 
regarding loss or delay of the application will not be accepted. 
09.Furnishing Falser Information.– your candidature is liable to be cancelled if it is found before recruitment 
that any information furnished by you in your application is false or incorrect. if such false or incorrect information is 
revealed after the recruitment, you will be liable for dismissal from the service under relevant procedures. 
 Subject Maximum 
  Marks

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
357
10. Public Services Commission has the power to fill or 
not to fill vacancies.
on the order of Public Services commission, 
  dr. i. H. K. mahanama,
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of Lands, 
  battaramulla.
Specimen application Form 
recruitment For the poSt oF legal oFFicer oF land 
commiSSioner general'S department 
(For Office use only)
01. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
 in Sinhala :–––––––––.
 in English :–––––––––.
 01.1 Name denoted by initials (in clear writing) :
    in Sinhala :–––––––––.
    in English :–––––––––.
02. National identity card Number :–––––––––.
03. date of birth : 
 y ear :––––––––. Month :––––––––. date :––––––––.
  03.1  age as at the closing date for applications :
    y ears :––––––. Months :–––––. days :––––––.
04.  Gender (Male - M, female - f) :
05. civil Status :–––––––––.
06.  Permanent address (in clear writing) :–––––––––.
07. t elephone Number : 
  Home :–––––––––. Mobile :–––––––––.
08. details of the degree in Law : 
   (i) Name of university :–––––––––.
   (ii) date of Graduation :–––––––––.
09. date of taking oath as a lawyer of Supreme court : 
–––––––––.
10. active experience as a lawyer (number of years) : 
–––––––––.
11. Qualifications as per the 06th paragraph of the notice 
for calling applications : 
   (i) ................................................
   (ii) ................................................
   (iii) ................................................
   (iv) ................................................
   (v) ................................................
12. Have you ever been convicted for any offence by a 
court of Law ? yes/No :–––––––––.
 12.1 if yes, mention details :–––––––––.
13. Certificates of Applicant : 
 (a) i solemnly declare that the details stated in this 
application are true and accurate to the best of 
my knoweldge. 
 (b) i am aware that in case this declaration by me is 
found to be false, i will be declared ineligible to 
be appointed and dismissal of service if found 
after making the appointment. 
 (c) i shall not alter any information stated herein, 
later. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  applicant's Signature. 
date :–––––––––.
14. attestation of applicant's Signature : 
i do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss 
....................... is personally known to me and that he/
she placed his/her signature under the paragraph 13 in my 
presence on ........................
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of attestor. 
date :–––––––––.
Name of attestor :–––––––––.
Post :–––––––––.
address :–––––––––.
(Confirm with official seal)
15. Recommendation of Head of the department : 
 (only for the applicants who are employed in Public/
Provincial Public Sector) 
 15.1 The work, behavior, attendance of the officer 
during the immediate consequent 05 years as 
at the closing date for applications, as per the 
personal file is satisfactory/unsatisfactory. 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
358
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION 
AND mANAGEmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Administrative 
Service – 2015(2016) Stage II
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified 
citizens of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination 
for recruitment to the posts in Grade iii of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service. 
1. in this Notice “Secretary” shall mean the “Secretary 
to the Ministry-in-charge of the subject of Public 
administration”, “Service” shall mean the “Sri Lanka 
Administrative Service” at the instances not specified in 
other way. 
2. the appointments through this examination shall be 
made to Grade iii of Sri Lanka administrative Service. 
 (a) the closing date for applications will be 20th 
March, 2017. 
Note.- the complains made on the loss or delay of 
applications and other connected letters in 
the post will not be considered. the damages 
caused due to delay in the part of applicant until 
the closing date shall be borne by the applicant. 
Written examination .- the Examination shall consist 
of the following five (05) question papers. 
 (i) General intelligence, 
 (ii) Social, Economic, Political background and 
trends in Sri Lanka,
 (iii) Global trends,
 (iv) aptitude for Management, 
 (v) creative, analytical and communication skills. 
Date of examination.- this examination shall be held 
in colombo, Gampaha and Kaluthara towns in May 2017. 
the Secretary reserves the right to postpone or cancel this 
examination subject to the instructions given by the Public 
Service commission. 
Interview.- a general and structured interview shall be 
held for the candidates who sat for all the papers in the 
written examination and obtained a higher aggregate of 
marks as determined by the Public Service commission as 
sufficient. The date of the interview shall be determined by 
the Secretary as per the instructions of the Public Service 
commission. 
3. Number of persons to be appointed is 175. at the 
instances where there are candidates, who have secured 
equal marks for the final vacancy or final few vacancies, 
above the number of vacancies, the decision of filling such 
vacancies shall be taken by the Public Service commission 
as per Section 80 of Procedural Rules. the effective date 
of the appointment shall be determined on the order of the 
Public Services commission. 
4. Conditions of Service : 
 4.1 a  selected candidate shall be appointed to Grade 
iii of the Service on the general conditions 
governing appointments in the Public Service 
and on the terms and conditions set out in the 
Minute of Sri Lanka administrative Service, 
published in the Gazette extraordinary of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
No. 1842/2 of 23.12.2013 and subject to any 
amendments made or to be made hereafter to 
the Minute, provisions of the Establishments 
  Has/Has not earned all salary increments, 
  convicted/not convicted for disciplinary offence. 
 15.2 This officer could/could not be released from the current post if he/she is selected for the post applied. I do 
recommend/not recommend the application. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature and the official seal of the Head of the Department. 
date  :––––––––––––. 
02-782
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
359
code and financial Regulations and Procedural 
Rules of Public Service commission published 
in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1589/30 of 
20.02.2009.
 4.2  this post is permanent. you shall be subjected 
to the policy decision that will be made by the 
government in future with regard to the pension 
scheme entitled to you. 
 4.3 appointment is subject to 3 years probation 
period. First Efficiency Bar Examination 
shall be passed within 03 years from the 
date of recruitment to Grade iii of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service as mentioned in the 
service minute. 
 4.4 Prescribed official language proficiency shall 
be obtained within 05 years of joining the 
service as per Public administration circular 
01/2014 and consequent circulars. 
 4.5 Public Service commission reserves the power 
to cancel the appointment of any candidate who 
fails to assume duties of the appointed post on 
due date and/or rejects or avoids serving in an 
area where he/she is appointed. 
5. Monthly Salary Scale.- Monthly salary scale relevant 
to this post as per Schedule i of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs. 47,615 
-10x1,335- 8x1,630 -17x2,170 – Rs. 110,895 (SL-1-2016). 
your salaries are paid in accordance with the provisions of 
the said circular as mentioned in Schedule ii of the same. 
in addition, you are also entitled to the other allowances 
paid to the public officers by the government from time 
to time. 
6. Qualifications for recruitment : 
(a) (i)  Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Shall have an excellent moral character, 
 (iii) Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve 
in any part of the island. 
 (b) Educational qualifications.- Shall have 
possessed a degree from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission or from an 
institution recognized by the University Grants 
commission as an institution for awarding 
degrees. 
Note.- Effective date of the degree shall be a date on or 
before the last day to meet the qualifications.
(c) Age.- Shall not be less than twenty two (22) 
years and not more than twenty eight (28) years 
of age as at the closing date of applications. 
(d) Restrictions regarding qualifications :
 (i) No person is allowed to sit for the open 
competitive examination for more than 
two (2) sittings. (Number of sittings of the 
applicants at the examinations for recruitment 
to Grade iii of Sri Lanka administrative 
Service under previous service minutes will 
not be considered).
 (ii) Requisite qualifications for this examination 
shall have been completed in every aspect on 
or before the closing date of applications.
 (iii) No person ordained in any religious sect 
shall be permitted to apply or sit for this 
competitive examination. 
7. examination fee.- the examination fee is Rs. 1,000. 
it should be paid before the closing date of applications at 
any Post Office to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 
of commissioner General of Examinations. the receipt 
obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage of the 
application form. the fee is non-refundable and it shall not 
be paid back or transferred to pay any other examination 
fee, under any circumstances. it would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt. Money orders or stamps 
are not accepted for examination fees. 
8. Method of Application : 
 (a) the application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification and 
should be prepared by the candidate himself on 
paper of size 8 ½"  x 12" (A-4) using both sides. 
it should be specially noted that the application 
forms should be prepared that cages 1.0 to 
2.12 appear on the first side of the paper and 
cages 3.0 to 6.0 appear on the other side of the 
paper. applications that do not comply with the 
specimen and that are not completed in every 
aspect shall be rejected without notice. (it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application 
with candidate). it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form 
perfected by him/her complies with the specimen 
given in the examination notice as otherwise the 
application may be rejected. 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
360
 (b) the application should be in the language 
medium in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination. 
 (c) the completed application form for the 
examination should be sent by registered post to 
reach the, 
  “Commissioner General of Examinations, 
  Organization and foreign Examination branch, 
  Department of Examinations – Sri Lanka, 
  P. O. Box 1503,
  Colombo” .
  
  on or before 20
th of March 2017. the words 
“Open Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to Grade III the Sri Lanka 
Administrative Service – 2015(2016) stage II” 
should be clearly indicated on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. 
any application received after the closing date 
shall not be accepted. it is essential to mention 
the name of examination in English language as 
well. in applications prepared in both Sinhala 
and tamil mediums. 
 (d) candidate’s signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of 
a Government School, a Justice of Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-Law, 
Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the 
Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted 
post in the Police Service or an Staff Officer 
holding a permanent post in public service whose 
annual initial salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
 (e) any application, which is not complete in every 
aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that 
an application has been lost or delayed in post 
shall be considered. 
 (f) Receipt of applications shall not be 
acknowledged. a notice shall be published in the 
newspapers by the department of Examinations 
as soon as admission cards are issued to 
applicants. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, 
steps shall be taken to notify the department 
of Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. When informing, the name of 
the examination applied for, full name, address 
and the Nic number of the candidate shall be 
indicated it would be advisable for candidates 
outside colombo to fax a letter of request 
along with a fax number of the candidate to the 
department of examinations through the fax 
number mentioning the notification for sending 
a copy of the admission. further, it would be 
advisable to keep a copy of the application, 
copy of the receipt relevant to payment of 
examination fee and the receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any information 
requested by the department of Examinations.
9. Admission to the examination : 
 (a) the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to all persons who 
have correctly perfected their applications. any 
candidate who fails to produce his admission 
card will not be permitted to sit the examination. 
 (b) candidates must sit the examination according 
to the index number at the examination hall 
assigned to him. Every candidate should 
get his admission card attested in advance 
and surrender it to the supervisor of the hall 
on the first day he presents himself for the 
examination. a set of rules to be observed by all 
candidates is published at the beginning in this 
Gazette. candidates shall be bound by the rules 
and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination and they are liable to a punishment 
imposed by him for breach of these rules. 
Note.- the issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination. 
10. Identity of Candidates.- a candidate shall be 
required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject he offers. 
for this purpose, any of the following documents shall be 
accepted :
 (a) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons, 
 (b) a  valid passport. 
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.- if a 
candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is 
liable to be canceled at any stage prior to, during or after 
the examination. if it is found that a candidate has furnished 
information with knowledge that they are false, or if he/she 
has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she shall be 
liable for dismissal from the Public Service. 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
361
12. any matter not provided for in these regulations shall be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to 
the instructions given by the Public Service commission.
13. Scheme of examination and Medium of examination :
 (a) the Examination shall be held in Sinhala, tamil and English. 
 (b) a  candidate shall sit the examination in the language in which he/she passed the qualifying degree 
examination or in an official language. 
 (c) a  candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying degree examination in two or more languages, 
shall sit the examination in the language in which he/she passed the majority of subjects at such 
examination or in an official language. 
 (d) a  candidate with a special degree who has passed the principal subject in one language and the subsidiary 
subject in another language shall sit the examination in the language in which he passed the principal 
subject or in an official language. 
Note : 
 (i) The term “qualifying degree” in (b) and (c) above refers to the degree qualifications referred to in 
paragraph 6(b).
 (ii) a candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language. 
 (iii) a candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the 
application.
14. Method of recruitment : 
 14.1 Written examination.- A written examination of five (05) question papers including the following 
subjects shall be held. Subjects and the minimum marks that shall be obtained for each subject are 
as follows :
Subject Marks Minimum marks that shall 
be obtained for a pass
1 General intelligence 100 50
2 Social Economic, Political background and trends in 
Sri Lanka
100 50
3 Global trends 100 50
4 aptitude for Management 100 50
5 creative, analytical and communication skills 100 50
  candidates should sit all the question papers. 
 14.2 General and Structured interview : 
 (i) interview shall consist of two parts namely : general interviews and structured interviews. 
 (a) General Interview : 
 (i) The general interview shall held to verify whether the candidate has satisfied qualifications 
for recruitment mentioned in No. 06 above and whether such qualifications fall within the 
prescriptions made in the same. 
 (ii) the general interview board is appointed by the Public Service commission.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
362
(b)  Structured Interview : 
 (i) a structured interview shall be conducted 
by an interview board appointed by the 
Public Service commission to measure the 
management skills, leadership qualities, 
communication skills and personality of the 
candidates. the methodology used in this 
regard shall be prepared by the Secretary of 
Public administration on the concurrence of 
the commission. the maximum marks that can 
be obtained at the interview is twenty five (25). 
Subject area Maximum 
marks
01 Management Skills 10
02 Leadership Qualities 05
03 communications Skills 05
04 Personality 05
 t otal 25
 (ii) out of the candidates who have scored a 
minimum of fifty (50%) marks or above in 
each subject, those who score the highest 
marks in the aggregate for all the subjects will 
qualify to appear for the general interview. 
Out of the candidates qualified, only a 
number equivalent to the total number of 
those expected to be recruited according to 
the vacancies expected to be filled and a 25% 
of the number of vacancies expected will be 
called for the general interview. if the number 
of qualified applicants does not amount to the 
number mentioned above, only such numbers 
of candidates who are so qualified will be 
called for the general interview. 
 (iii) General interview shall be conducted before 
the structured interview for verification of 
qualification and marks shall not be allocated 
at the general interview. candidates who are 
proved to have possessed all the qualifications 
for recruitment at the general interview shall 
become eligible for calling for structured 
interview. if a certain number of candidates 
called for general interview are not qualified 
for calling for structured interview, no other 
candidates shall be called for the general 
interview in place of disqualified candidates. 
 (iv) appointments shall be made to Grade three 
(iii) according to merits beginning from 
candidates who have scored highest marks 
as per the total marks obtained at the written 
examination and the structured interview 
by the number of candidates expected to be 
appointed according to the existing vacancies. 
N. B.- opportunity given to a candidate for appearing 
for the interview does not necessarily mean that 
the candidate has possessed qualifications to be 
awarded an appointment. 
 14.3 the results shall be communicated to the 
applicants personally by the commissioner 
General of Examinations by post or by the web 
site www.results.exams.gov.lk
15. Syllabus of the written examination :
 (01) General  Intelligence :
  it is expected to assess the capacity of 
the candidate in analytical skills, logical 
comprehension, interpretative ability, ability 
in application to other situations and arriving 
and conclusions in response to problems 
presented to the candidate in relation to 
numerical, lingual and figurative structures 
and inter-relations. 
  (Duration 1 ½ hours – 100 marks. This 
question paper shall consist of multiple 
choice questions. Candidates are required to 
answer all questions)
 (02) Social, economic, Political background and 
trends in Sri Lanka :
  it is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge 
of the social, economic, political, cultural, 
scientific and technological conditions in 
Sri Lanka or his ability to think creatively 
analytically and critically and the ability to 
decide priority and strategic projection in 
response to situation presented to him. 
  (duration 3 hours – 100 marks. this question 
paper shall consist of structured essay type, 
essay type, multiple choice questions and 
questions for short answers. Candidates are 
required to answer all questions).
 (03) Global trends :
  it is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge 
of the global economy, political, cultural, 
scientific and technological technological 
conditions or his ability to think creatively 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
363
analytically and critically and the ability to decide priority and strategic projection in response to situation 
presented to him. 
  (duration 3 hours – 100 marks. this question paper shall consist of structured essay type, essay type, multiple 
choice questions and questions for short answers. Candidates are required to answer all questions).
 (04) Managerial aptitude :
  it is expected to test the candidate’s skills in identifying problems and their reasons, decisions making, 
maintaining interpersonal relationships and communicative ability, formulation of self disciplinary policies 
and strategies, and innate wisdom etc. in response to situation presented to him. 
  (duration 3 hours – 100 marks. this question paper shall consist of structured essay type, essay type, multiple 
choice questions and questions for short answers. Candidates are required to answer all questions).
 (05) creative, analytical and communicative Skills : 
  It is expected to test the candidate’s ability for reasoning and imagination in relation to the analyzing, 
collating and presenting of information on a topics/themes, selected by the candidate from a given set of 
topics/themes ; and the ability to comprehend a complex passage, a piece of writing or a memorandum and 
express the salient ideas thereof concisely, clearly and accurately in the candidate’s own words. 
  (duration 3 hours – 100 marks. Candidates are required to answer all questions)
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala 
notification shall prevail. 
on the order of the Public Service commission, 
 J. J. 
rathnaSiri, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Public administration and Management. 
03rd february, 2017. 
SPEciMEN foRM of aPPLicatioN
(for office use only)
open competitiVe examination For recruitment to grade iii oF the Sri lanKa adminiStratiVe 
SerVice – 2014(2016) Stage ii
1.0 Medium  1.2 t own and town No. in which you intend to sit  
 1.1 Language medium of examination    the examination 
    Sinhala  - 2 colombo - 1   Town  Town No. 
    t amil    - 3 Gampaha - 2
    English - 4 Kaluthara - 3  
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
       (indicate the rele vant town and town No. in 
       cage. it will not be allowed to change this
       subsequently) 
2.0 Personal information :
  2.1 Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   eg. : HERatH  MudiyaNSELaGE  SaMaN  KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
364
  2.2 Name with initials at the end (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   eg. : GuNaWaRdHaNa  H.M. S. K. 
  2.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
  2.4 Permanent address :––––––––––––.
   (admission card will be posted to this address)
   (in English block capitals)
  2.5 Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
  2.6 Sex : Male - 0
     female - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.7 civil status : unmarried - 1 
     Married  - 2 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.8 Ethnic group :
   (Sinhala – 1, tamil – 2, indian tamil – 3, Muslim – 4, other – 5)
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.9 National identity card No. :
  2.10 date of birth : date  Month year
  2.11 Age as at 20.03.3017 which is the date of fulfilling qualification :
   y ears : Months : days :
  2.12 telephone No.  :
  
3.0  (i) date of graduation  :––––––––––––.
  (ii) university/institute  :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Registration Number  :––––––––––––.
  (iv) internal/External  :––––––––––––.
  (v) degree  :––––––––––––.
  (vi) Subjects  :––––––––––––.
  (vii) class  :––––––––––––.
   upper/Lower  :––––––––––––.
  (viii) Effective date  :––––––––––––.
  (ix) Language medium of Examination  :––––––––––––.
4.0 Mention the years if you have sat for the examinations held before for recruitment to Sri Lanka administrative 
Service : 
Number of sittings at the examinations 
after publishing the Minute of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service published in the 
Gazette extraordinary of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1842/2 
dated 23.12.2013 (currently Effective)
Name of the Exam
2013(2015) open
2014(2016) open
appeared/did not appear 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
365
5.0 Paste the cash receipt properly here.
(Paste one edge of the receipt here securely)
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate)
6.0 declaration of the candidate : 
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed 
the receipt No……………………… dated ………………….. being the payment of the examination fee. i also agree to 
be bound by the rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, 
during or after the examination, if it is found that i am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination. further, 
i agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by commissioner – General of Examinations as conducting of 
the exam. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
7.0  attestation of the applicant’s signature (Para 8(d) of the Gazette Notification) :
i hereby certify that …………………… (full name) who submits this application is known to me personally, 
that he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/She placed his/her signature 
in my presence on ……………………….
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature. 
date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
8.0  Certificate of the Head of the Department (only for the applicants in Public Service /Provincial Public Service/
Statutory institution) :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………………. who is submitting this application is serving in this 
department as …………………… and his/her application is forwarded with my recommendation as per regulations 
stipulated in this Gazette notification. He/she could be released from his/her present post, if selected for the position. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Department/Authorized Officer. 
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
02-752

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
366
equal marks for the final vacancy or final few vacancies, 
above the number of vacancies, the decision of filling such 
vacancies shall be taken by the Public Service commission 
as per Section 80 of Procedural Rules. the effective  date 
of appointment shall be determined on the order of the 
Public Services commission.
4. Service Condition :
 4.1  a Selected candidate will be appointed to 
Grade iii of Sri Lanka administrative Service 
subject to general conditions governing the 
appointments in the Public Service and on the 
terms and conditions set out in the Minute, of 
Sri Lanka administrative Service Published in 
the Gazette Extraordi nary of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. : 1842/2 
dated 23.12.2013 and to any amendments 
made or to be made to the Minute hereinafter, 
financial Regulations in the Establishments 
code and Procedural Rules of Public Service 
commission published in Gazette Extraordinary 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
 4.2  this post is permanent and pensionable. Shall 
contribute to the widows' and orphans' pension 
scheme/widowers' and orphans' pension 
scheme.
 4.3  appointment is subject to an acting Period 
of one year. First Efficiency Bar Examination 
shall be passed within 03 years from the 
date of recruitment to Grade iii of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service as mentioned in the 
service minute.
 4.4  Prescribed official language proficiency shall be 
obtained within 05 yearss of joining the service 
as per Public administration circular 01/2014 
and consequent circulars.
 4.5  Public Service commission reserves the power 
to cancel the appointment of any candidate who 
fails to assume duties of the appointed post on 
due date and/or rejects or avoids serving in an 
area where he/she is appointed.
5. Monthly Salary Scale.– Monthly Salary Scale relevant 
to this post as per Schedule 1 of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs.47,615- 10 x 
1,335 - 8 x 1,630 - 17 x 2,170 - Rs. 110,895 (SL-1-2016). 
your salaries are paid in accordance with the provisions of 
the said circular as mentioned in schedule ii of the same. in 
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION 
AND mANAGEmENT 
Limited Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to Grade III of  Sri Lanka 
Administrative Service - 2015(2016) Stage II
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from qualified Sri 
Lankan citizens for Limited competitve Examination 
for recruitment to the Posts of Grade iii of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service.
1. In this notification the terms
 (a)  "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Ministry 
of Public administration and Management.
 (b)  "Service" means the Sri Lanka administrative 
Service.
2. Recruitment to Grade iii of Sri Lanka administrative 
Service is made by this examination.
Written Examination.– this examination will consist of 
following four (04) question papers
 (1)  General intelligence
 (2) Social, Economic, Political background of Sri 
Lanka and Global trends
 (3) case study relating to Public administration 1 
(Relevant to Establishments code, Procedural 
Rules of Public Services commission and financial 
regulations)
 (4) case study relating to Public administration ii 
(Relevant to the evaluation of creative, analytical 
and communication skills)
Date of examination : this Examination will be held 
in May 2017 only in colombo. the Secretary reserves 
the right to postpone or cancel this examination subject to 
instructions of Public Service commission.
Interview : General and structured interview will be held 
for the candidates who have appeared for all the papers 
of the written examination and secured a sufficiently high 
aggregate of marks as determined by the Public Service 
commission. the date of the interviews shall be detemined 
by Secretary.
3. Number of persons to be appointed is 46. at the 
instances where there are candidates, who have secured 

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
367
addition, you are also entitled to the other allowances paid 
to the public officers by the govern ment from time to time.
6. eligibility for Recruitment :
 (a) (i)  Shall be a citizen of Sri lanka ;
  (ii) Shall be of excellent character ;
  (iii) Shall be of an excellent moral character and 
physical fitness to serve at any part of the 
island.
 (b) Educational Qualifications and Experience
 (i) Shall have obtained a degree from a university 
or a degree awarding institution recognized 
by the university Grants commission ;
and
  Be an officer in the Public service or in a 
Provincial Public Service in a permanent 
and pensionable service/post receiving a 
salary under salary code No. MN-2-2016 or 
a higher MN Salary code Number or under 
and SL-1-2016 salary code Number in Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 who has 
completed a minimum active and satisfactory 
period of service of five (05) years in any 
service/post ; 
or 
 (ii) Be an officer in the Public Service or in a 
Provincial Public Service in a permanent 
and pensionable service/post receiving a 
salary under Salary code No. MN-2-2016 or 
a higher MN Salary code number or under 
an SL-1-2016 Salary code Number in Public 
administration circular No. 0/2016 who has 
completed a minimum acitve and satisfactory 
period of service of ten (10) years in any 
service/post. 
Note :
 1. the effective date of the degree shall be a date on 
or before 01.07.2016.
 2. the total of continuous periods of service in 
public service and/or provincial public service 
is considered when calculating the above 
mentioned period of service.
 (c) Age and other qualifications to be satisfied
 (i) Shall be not more than the age limit of 53 
(fifty three years) years of age at 01.07.2016.
 (ii) Shall have obtained permanent post in a 
service/post mentioned in above 6(b).
 (iii) Shall have not subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment in immediately preceding 05 
years.
 (iv) Shall have earned due salary increments in 
immediately preceding 05 years.
 (d)  Restrictions for qualifications
 (i) No candidate shall be permited to sit for 
Limited competitive Examination more 
than two (02) occasions. (Number of sittings 
at the examinations to recruit Grade iii of 
Sri Lanka administrative Service under the 
previous service minute is not considered).
 (ii) The qualifications required to apply for this 
examination shall have been satisfied by 
01.07.2016 in full.
 (iii) No person who is ordained in any religious 
order shall be allowed to sit for this 
examination.
7. examination Fees.– the fee for the examination 
will be Rs. 1000.00 this should be paid before the closing 
date of applications at any Post Office to be credited to 
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examination and the recei pt obtained thus should be 
affixed in the relevant cage of the application form. Money 
orders or Stamps are not accepted for examination fees. 
the fee is non-refundable and it shall be paid back or 
transferred to pay any other examination fee, under any 
circumstances. it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the receipt.
8. Method of applications :
 (a) the application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification and 
should be prepared on paper of A4 size using 
both sides. It is to be specifically noted that the 
application should be prepared in such a way 
that headings No. 1.0 to 2.12 appear on the 1st 
page, 3.0 to 4 (ii) on the second page and the 
rest on the third page. an application prepared 
with computer/typed applications can also be 
used for this purpose. the application should 
be filled legibly by the candidate himself is his 
own handwriting  and applications that do not 
comply with the specimen or that have not been 
completed properly will be rejected without 
notice. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the application with the candidate. it is the 
responsibility of the candidate to verify that 

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
368
the perfected application complies with the 
specimen given in the notification, as otherwise, 
the application may be rejected.
 (b) the application should be prepared in the same 
language in which the candidate intends to sit 
the examination. it is required to indicate the 
name of the examination in English also in the 
applications prepared both in Sinhala and tamil 
media.
 (c) applications duly perfected by candidates 
should be sent through the respective Head 
of department to reach the following address 
before 20th March 2017 by Registered Post. 
the top left corner of the envelope containing 
the application should clearly bear the words 
"Limited competitive Examination for 
recruitment to Sri Lanka administrative Service- 
2015(2016) Stage ii''. application received after 
this date will be rejected.
   the commissioner General of Examinations,
   Organizations and Foreign Examinations  
    branch,
   department of Examinations,
   P. o. box - 1503,
   colombo.
 (d) the post and the service station where the 
applicant is serving at the time of applying for 
the examination is relevant for all the activities 
with regard to the examination and the changes 
occur after sending the applications are not 
considered.
 (e) applications that are not complete in every aspect 
will be rejected. complaints on applications 
getting lost or delayed will not be entertained.
 (f) A notification will be published in newspapers 
by the department of Examinations as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to candidates. if 
the admission card is not received even after 2 
or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be 
taken to notify the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. 
the name of the examination, full name of the 
applicant, address and identity card no. should 
be mentioned when informing the department 
of Examinations. in case of applicants outside 
colombo, it will be more effective to send a 
letter of request to the fax number mentioned in 
the said advertisement furnishing a fax number 
to which the admission card should be sent. 
further, it would be advisable to keep a copy 
of the application, copy of the receipt relevant 
to payment of examination fee and the receipt 
of registration of the application to prove any 
information requested by the department of 
Examinations.
09. Admission to examination :
 (a)  the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission  cards to all person who 
have correctly perfected their applications. any 
candidate who fails to produce his admission 
card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
 (b) candidates  must sit the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him. Every 
candidate should get his admission card attested 
in advance and surrender it to the supervisor of 
the hall on the first day he presents himself for 
the examination. a set of rules to be observed by 
all candidates is published at the beginning in this 
Gazette. candidates shall be bound by the rules 
and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of examinations on conducting the 
examination and they are liable to a punishment 
imposed by him for breach of these rules.
Note : issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
doee not necessarily mean that the candidate 
has satisfied the qualifications to sit for the 
examination.
10. Identity of Candidates.– a candidate will be 
required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject he offers. for 
this purpose, one of the following documents only, will be 
accepted.
 (a) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (b) a  valid passport
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– if a 
candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled at any state prior to, during or after the 
examination. if it is found that a candidate has purposely 
furnished false information or willfully suppressed any 
material fact, he or she will be liable for dismissal from the 
public service.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
369
12. Any matter not provided for in this notification shall be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to 
the instruction of the Public Service commission.
13. Scheme of examination and Language medium of examination :
 (a) the examination will be held in the language medium of Sinhala, tamil and English.
 (b) a  candidates should sit  the examination in the language medium in which he passed the qualifying 
examination/interview for entry to public service or in an official language.
Note :- (i) a candidate should sit for all the papers of the examination in one and the same Language.
 (ii) candidates will not be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form.
14. Method of Recruitment :
 14.1  Written examination.– a Written examination consisting of following four subjects  shall be conducted. 
the subjects and the minimum marks to be obtained from each subject are as follows :-
  Subject Marks Minimum  
   Pass Marks
 1. General intelligence 100 50
 2. Social, Economic and Political background in Sri Lanka and Global trends 100 50
 3. case study relating to Public administration 1 (Relevant to Establishments 100 50
  code, Procedural Rules of Public services commission and 
  financial regulations)
 4. case study relating to Public administration ii (Relevant to the 
  evaluation of creative, analytical and communication skills) 100 50
candidates shall sit for all question papers
 14.2 General and Structured interview
 (i) the interview consists of two parts i. e. General interview and Structured interview
 (a) General interview
 (i)  The general interview shall be conducted to ascertain whether the qualifications for 
recruitment stipulated in para 06 above have been fulfilled and whether the applicants 
conform to the restrictions on eligibility.
 (ii) the panel of the general interview board shall be appointed by the Public Service 
commission
 (b) Strictured interview
  the structured interview shall be held in line with the following procedure to measure the 
managerial skills, leadership qualities, communication skills and personality of candidates. 
The maximum marks that can be obtained as this interview in twenty five (25)
   Subject Area Maximum Marks
   01 Managerial Skills 10
   02 Leadership Qualities 05
   03 communication Skills 05
   04 Personality  05
        Total 25

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
370
 (ii) out of the candidates who have scored a 
minimum of fifty (50%) marks or above in each 
subject, those who score the highest marks in 
the aggregate for all the subjects wil qualify 
to appear for the general interview. out of the 
candidates qualified, only a number equivalent to 
the total number of those expected to be recruited 
according to the vacancies expected to be filled 
and a 25% of the number of vacancies expected 
will be called for the general interview. if the 
number of qualified applicants does not amount 
to the number mentioned above, only such 
numbers of candidates, who are so qualified will 
be called for the general interview.
 (iii)  the general interview shall be held prior to the 
structured interview to examine qualifications 
and no marks  shall be allocated there. applicants 
confirmed to have fulfilled all qualifications 
for recruitment at the general interview shall 
qualify to be called for the structured interview. 
Even if a certain number of candidates are not 
qualified to be called for the structured interview, 
other candidates shall not be called again for the 
general interview in Place of those who are not so 
qualified.
 (iv)  appointments shall be made to Grade three (iii) 
according to merits beginning from candidates 
who have scored highest marks as per the total 
marks obtained at the written examination 
and the structured interview by the number of 
candidates expected to be  appointed according 
to the existing vacancies.
Note.- opportunity given to a candidate for appearing 
for the interview does not necessarily mean that 
the candidate has possessed qualifications to be 
awarded an appointment.
 14.3 the results shall be communicated to the 
applicants personally by the commissioner 
General of Examinations by post or by the web 
site www.results.exams.gov.lk
15. Syllabus of the Written examination :
 (01) General  Intelligence :
  it is expected to assess the capacity of 
the candidate in analytical skills, logical 
comprehension, interpretative ability, ability 
in application to other situations and arriving 
and conclusions in response to problems 
presented in numerical, lingual and figurative 
structures and inter-relations. 
  (Duration 1 ½ ours – 100 marks. This paper 
shall consist of multiple choice questions. all 
questions shall be answered)
 (02) Social, economic, Political background of 
Sri Lanka and global trends :
  it is expected to assess the subject knowledge 
of the candidate on social, economical, 
political, cultural, scientific and technological 
conditions in Sri Lanka and in the globe or 
his ability to think creatively, analytically and 
critically and ability to decide priority and 
strategic projection in response to a asituation 
presented to the candidate. 
  (duration 3 hours – 100 marks. this paper 
shall consist of Multiple choice Questions, 
Questions for short answers, Structured 
Essays and Essays. all questions shall be 
answered)
 (03) Case study relating to Public Administration I 
(Relating to establishments Code, Procedural 
rules of the Public Service commission and 
Financial Regulations) :
  it is expected to test the candidate’s creative 
thinking power and problem solving ability 
in terms of the practice of government 
service as per the Establishments code and 
the financial Regulations by presenting to 
him a case/cases built up connecting one or 
several problems that may arise in different 
environments in the public service. 
  (duration 3 hours – 100 marks. this paper 
shall consist of Multiple choice Questions, 
Questions for short answers, Structured 
Essays and Essays. all questions shall be 
answered)
 (04) Case study relating to public Administration 
II (Relevant to assessment of creating 
Analytical and Communication Skills) :
  it is expected to test the candidate’s ability 
for reasoning and imagination in relation 
to the analyzing, collating and presenting 
of views and information on a topic/theme 
selected by the candidate from a given set of 
topics/themes; and the ablity to comprehend 
a complex passage, a piece of writing or a 
memorandum and express the salient ideas 
thereof concisely, clearly and accurately in 
the candidate's own words.
                      (duration 3 hours – 100 marks. all questions 
shall be answered)

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
371
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala 
notification shall prevail. 
on the order of the Public Service commission, 
 J. J. rathnaSiri, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Public administration and Management. 
03rd february, 2017. 
SPEciMEN foRM of aPPLicatioN
(For office use only)
limited competitiVe examination For recruitment to grade iii oF the Sri lanKa adminiStratiVe 
SerVice – 2015 (2016) Stage ii
1.0 Medium :   
  Medum of Exmination      
    Sinhala - 2    
    Tamil     - 3 The application should be fill in the medium of langauge in which  
    English  - 4 the candidate indends to sit the examination    
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
2.0 Personal information :
  2.1 Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   eg. : HERatH  MudiyaNSELaGE  SaMaN  KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa
  2.2 Name with initials at the end (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   eg. : GuNaWaRdHaNa H.M. S. K. 
  2.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
  2.4 Official address in English block capitals (admission card will be sent to this address) :––––––––––––.
  2.5 Official address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
  2.6 Private address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
  2.7 Gender : Male - 0
     female - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.8 National identity card No. :       
  2.9 Marital status : Single - 1 
     Married  - 2 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.10 Race :
   (Sinhala – 1, tamil – 2, indian tamil – 3, Muslim – 4, other – 5)
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  2.11 date of birth : y ear Month date

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
372
  2.12 telephone No. :      
3.0 indicate the language medium in which you passed the qualifying examination/interview for entry to the service/
grade as at 01.07.2016 :––––––––––––.
4.0 (I) Whether all the qualification mentioned in Para 6 of the Gazette Notification has been fulfilled ? :–––––––––––.
 (a)  age as at 01.07.2016 :––––––––––––.
 (b)  Educational qualification and experience :––––––––––––.
  State whether the candidate become qualified under Para 06(b) I or (b)II as per the Para 06(b) of the Gazette 
Notification :––––––––––––.
     date of graduation  :––––––––––––.
    university/institute  :––––––––––––.
    Registration Number  :––––––––––––.
    internal/External  :––––––––––––.
    degree  :––––––––––––.
    Subjects  :––––––––––––.
    class  :––––––––––––.
   upper/Lower  :––––––––––––.
    Effective date of the degree  :––––––––––––.
    Language medium in which the candidate sit for the Examination  :––––––––––––.
 (c)  Services/Grades that gives qualifications to the candidature (Class, Grade or Segment (If any) should be 
indicated) :
  Present Post :––––––––––––.
  Whether the said post belongs to Public Service or Provincial Public Service ? :––––––––––––.
  Grade :––––––––––––.
   class/Segment :––––––––––––.
  date of appointment to the post :––––––––––––.
  Date of confirmation in the said post :––––––––––––.
  Salary code and Salary Scale :––––––––––––.
  If several services are appilcable for you to be qualified for applying for this post, particulars of said periods 
of (active and satisfactory) service shall be mentioned in the following table : 
   Name of Service/Grade Salary Code as per the P . A. Circular Date of Appointment
    applicable (Ex. : MN 2-2016(A)
   (1)
   (2)
   (3)
   (4)
   (5)
 
 (ii)  Total period of active and satisfactory service as at 01.07.2016 on which the qualifications in the services/
grades of a approved post mentioned in Para (6) of the Gazette Notification shall be fulfilled :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
373
5.0 Mention the years if you have sat for the examinations held before for recruitment to Sri Lanka administrative 
Service : 
Number of sittings at the examinations 
after publishing the Minute of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service published in the 
Gazette extraordinary of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1842/2 
dated 23.12.2013 (currently Effective)
Name of the Exam
2013(2015) Limited
2014(2016) Limited
appeared/did not appear 
6.0 Paste the cash receipt properly here.
Paste the cash receipt (original) firmly, from the edge
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
7.0 Certificate of the candidate :
I, declare that during the five years preceding 01.07.2016, I have earned all increments (Excluding those 
conditional to passing service or departmental examinations), possessed active and satisfactory service period as at 
01.07.2016, as per Para. 06(b) of the Gazette notification and that I have not been subject to any form of disciplinary 
punishment (Exclduing warning). further i declare that i shall be bound by the decisions taken by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, on conducting and issuing results of this examination. 
i declare that i am eligible to sit this Limited competitive Examination as per all rules and regulations mentioned 
in the Gazette and that to the best of my knowledge, the information given in this is true and that I have affixed the receipt 
No. ...................... dated ...................... being payment of the examination fees. i also agree to be bound by the rules and 
regulations of this examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior or during or after the 
examination if it is found that i am ineligible according to the minute of this examination. further, i declare that i shall 
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations on conducting of this 
examination. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the candidate. 
date :––––––––––––.
8.0  Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to the personal file) :
i, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………………. Who is submitting this application is serving in a post of 
............................. in Ministry/department of ................................. under the central Government/Provincial council of 
.................................... and has earned all salary increments during the period of 5 years prior to 01.07.2016 (Excluding 
those conditional to passing service or departmental examinations), has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment 
(Except warnings) during the said period, possessed active and satisfactory service period of .................... (five/ten) years, 
as per Para 06(b) of the Gazette notification, he/she is eligible to sit for this examination as per regulations stipulated in 
the relevant Gazette Notification, he/she has paid the prescribed examination fees and affixed the receipt herein and signed 
this application in my presence.  
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Department/Authorized Officer. 
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
(Place official frank)
02-753

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
374
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Department of Social Services
tHE LiMitEd coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN 
foR tHE REcRuitMENt to tHE PoStS of 
officER - iN- cHaRGE iN VocatioNaL
tRaiNiNG cENtERS uNdER tHE dEPaRtMENt 
of SociaL SERVicES - 2017
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the internal applicants 
serving in the department of Social Services with the 
qualifications stipulated here under by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations for the examination to be held 
in May 2017 in colombo, on behalf of the department of 
Social Services for selecting Officers to fill in the vacancies 
existed in the Post of Officer-in-Charge in the V ocational 
training centers maintained under the department of 
Social Services.
01. The number of Officers to be recruited is 04 (four). 
in case of the number of candidates, who have obtained the 
equal marks exceeding the exiting vacancy or vacancies; 
the decision of filling of that number of vacancies will be 
given by the Public Service commission in terms of the 
Section 80 in Procedural Rules. the effective date for the 
appointment will be decided in accordance with the order 
of the Public Service commission.
02. Regulations on employment :
 2.1 Selected candidates will be appointed to the post 
of Officer-in-Charge and they will be subject to 
the general conditions governing appointments 
to the government service, rules and regulations 
enacted by the Scheme of Recruitment for 
the Management assistant Supra Grade in 
the department of Social Services approved 
by the Public Service commission No. PSc/
ESt/4/1 dated 22.06.2012, any amendments 
made or to be made thereafter to the said 
Scheme of Recruitment, provisions as stipulated 
in the code of Establishment and financial 
Regulations and Procedural Rules of the Public 
Service commission published in the Extra 
ordinary Gazette Notification No.1589/30 dated 
20.02.2009.
 2.2 this post is permanent and pensionable and 
it is required to contribute to the Widows' / 
Widowers' and orphans' Pension fund.
 2.3 this appointment is subject to one year 
probationary period from the date of 
appointment.
 2.4 in accordance with the Public administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and other circulars 
incidental thereto, those who are appointed to 
the post should be acquired the proficiency in 
the prescribed official language within five (5) 
from the date of appointment.
03. Monthly Salary Scale.– in terms of the Public 
administrative Salary circular No. 03/2016, the initial 
salary step of this post is 6 th step of the salary scale MN 
7-2016.
Salary Scale. - MN 7 - 2016: Rs. 45,355/- 11x755-
18x1030 - Rs. 68,425/- (monthly)
04. The required qualifications :
(a) (i) The applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (ii) Should be of excellent character
 (iii) all the applicants should be of excellent 
physical and mental character to perform the 
duty at any part of the island
(b)  Educational Qualifications and Experiences:
  Should have a degree that has been obtained 
by a University, recognized by the University 
Grant commission or an institution, approved 
by the university Grant commission as a degree 
awarding institution;
And
  Completion of not less than five (05) years active 
and satisfactory service in the post of Social 
Services Officer, having obtained the permanent 
position, in the department of Social Services;
Or
  completion of not less than ten  (10) years active 
and satisfactory service in the post of Social 
Services Officer, having obtained the permanent 
position, in the department of Social Services;
Note.– Other Qualifications to be fulfiled.
 (i) All the qualifications required to apply for this 
examination should be fulfiled to the date of 
20.03.2017.
 (ii) Should have not been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishment during immediately 
preceding five (05) years period.

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
375
 (iii) Should have earned all the due increments 
during immediately preceding five (05) years 
period.
05. Method of application :
 (a) Prepare the application according to the format 
given at the end of this paper notification using 
both sides of A4 size papers. It should be 
specially noted to prepare the applications to set 
paragraphs from 1.0 to 2: 12 on the first page, 
paragraphs from 3.0 to 4.0 to be on the second 
page and rest of paragraphs to be on the third 
page. Computerized / typed set application form 
could be used for this purpose. Should complete 
the application with legible own hand writing 
and incomplete applications and or applications 
which are not prepared in the given format will 
be rejected without any notice. Preservation of a 
photocopy of the application will be beneficial.
 (b) applications should be completed in the 
medium of language in which the candidates 
wish to appear for the examination. Name 
of the Examination in the heading should be 
mentioned in English in addition to Sinhala or 
tamil in Sinhala or tamil medium applications.
(c)  (i) Properly completed applications should be 
sent through the Head of the department 
to reach before the 20.03.2017 to the 
commissioner General of Examinations, 
Organizations and Foreign Examinations 
branch, department of Examinations, 
Post box 1503, colombo, under registered 
cover. the top left hand corner of the 
envelope should clearly carry the words  
‘‘the Limited competitive Examination for 
the Recruitment to the Posts of Officer - in 
- charge in the V ocational training centers 
under the department of Social Services - 
2017’’. the applications received after the 
closing date will not be accepted.
  (ii) the examination fee is Rs. 1,200/-. the 
examination fee should be paid at any post 
office in the island to the credit of revenue 
head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. a margin of the 
original receipt obtained in the candidate's 
own name should be firmly pasted to the 
place specified in the application form. It 
would be advisable to retain a photocopy of 
this receipt. the examination fees shall not 
be refunded for any case and fee once paid 
will not be held in reserve for transferring to 
any other examination in future. Moreover, 
stamp or money order will not be accepted 
for the examination fee.
 (d) all the affairs connected to the examination 
will be the details of the posts and working 
places of the applicants when they applied at 
time of applying for the post concerned and 
any changers in this regard, after sending the 
applications will not be concerned.
 (e) incomplete applications in every ways and 
means will be rejected without any notice. No 
complaints shall be considered to the effect that 
an application or documents connected there 
with were lost or delayed in the post. any loss 
that may result by delaying the application to the 
last date will have to be borne by the applicant.
 (f) department of Examinations will publish a 
paper notification as soon as the admission card 
are issued.if the admission card is not received 
even after 2-3 days of such notice, by any of 
the applicant, an inquiry should be made from 
the Organization and Foreign Examination 
branch of the department of Examinations in 
the manner stated in the paper notice. in the said 
inquiry, the name of the examination applied, 
full name of the applicant, national identity 
card number and address should correctly be 
mentioned. in case of the applicant lives outside 
colombo, it is advisable to send the request 
by fax with the said details and a fax number 
of the applicant. in such cases, it is important 
to keep a copy of the application, a copy of the 
receipt of examination fees and the receipt of 
the registered post at hand to provide the details 
requested by the department of Examinations.
06. entering for the examination :
 (a)  the applicants, only those who have submitted 
their duly completed applications shall receive 
an admission card from the commissioner 
General of Examinations. Without producing 

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
376
the admission card, nobody will be permitted 
to enter the examination hall.
 (b)  the candidates should appear for the 
examination in the examination hall in which 
it has been prescribed to each one. only an 
admission card with the attested signature 
of the candidate should be presented to the 
supervisor of the relevant examination hall 
on the first day examination. All candidates 
are bound to abide by the rules and regulation 
appeared in the beginning of this Gazette 
notification. Candidates would be subject 
to the rules and regulations enacted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in 
respect to the conduct of the examinations. if 
these rules are violated, candidates are bound 
to undergo any punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
Note.– issuing an admission card to a candidate 
for the examination should not be taken as 
an acknowledgement that the candidate has 
satisfied the qualifications required to sit for 
the examination.
07. The identification of the candidate .– all candidates 
should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the head of 
the examination hall. only one of the following documnts 
will be accepted for this purpose.
(a) the national identity card issued by the 
department for the Registration of Persons.
(b) a  valid Passport
8. Penalties for furnishing false information.– if in 
accordance with regulations of this Examination a candidate 
is found ineligible, his/her candidature will be cancelled at 
any time prior to or during or after the Examination. if at 
any time during the period of his/her service, it is proved 
that he/she had willfully furnished false information or 
he/she had been ineligible to sit this Examination, he/she 
would be able to be dismissed from the service forthwith.
9. The final decision on any matter that does not include 
in this notice rests with the decision of the director of 
Social Services subject to the instructions of the Public 
Service commission.
10. Method and medium of examination :
 (a) the  examination will be conducted in 
Sinhala and tamil mediums.
 (b) a  candidate should appear for the 
examination in only one language in which 
she/he has obtained the degree to be qualifid 
to appear for the examination. all question 
papers have to be answered in the same 
medium.
 (c) candidates will not be permitted to change 
the medium of examination given in her/his 
application.
11. Method of Recruitment :
 Written Examination.– (the Limited competitive 
Examination for the Recruitment to the Post 
of Officer-in-Charge) comprises of essay and 
structured essay questions on the case study 
regarding the work and personnel management - 
time one hour, Marks (100. this question paper 
contains compulsory questions and all questions 
need to be answered. A 40% of minimum marks 
should be obtained to pass the paper.
 the candidates should answer essay and structured 
essay typed questions prepared in association 
with the case study or case studies with regard 
to the work and personnel management such as 
institutional administration, management, facing 
issues and solving such issues, institutional 
productivity and efficiency for evaluating 
the comprehensive ability and knowledge 
of the candidates on the work and personnel 
management.
 Interview :
 Having conducted the structured interview under 
the structured interview board approved by the 
public Sevice Commission for the officers who 
have obtained of not less than 40% marks among 
the candidates who appeared for the written 
examination, the number of candidates equal to 
the existing vacancies will be selected on the basis 
of the merit of the aggregate marks scored at both 
written examination and structured interview.
 Structured interviews for the recruitment to the 
posts of Officer - in - Charge.

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
377
 01.The fields to be awarded marks.
  Heads to be checked to award marks Maximum  
  marks
01.   Additional Educational Qualifications
  (Marks will only be awarded to the qualifications obtained in addition to the basic  10
 qualifications mentioned under Number 04 of the recruitment notification.)
  1.  Post Graduate degree  - 10
   (including Sociology / administration and Management)
  2.  first - class Honours degree  - 08
  3.  the degree with class Honours  - 06
   (If certain subjects have been excepted from the Efficiency Bar Examination 
   by this means, the applicants will again not be awarded marks)
02.  Additional Professional Qualifications
 In the field in connection with the post  15
  1.  Obtaining of not less than one year diploma from a recognized university or 
   vocational training Institution recognized by the appointing authority on the 
   subjects like social works/ administration/ counselling/ management  - 15
  2. Obtaining a certificate for following of not less than six month course from a 
   recognized university or vocational training Institution recognized by the 
   appointing authority on the subjects like sociology/ administration/    
counselling /management (sign language diploma, braille diploma)  - 10
  3.  Obtaining a certificate for following of not less than three month course from a 
   recognized university or vocational training Institution recognized by the 
   appointing authority on the subjects like sociology / administration /   - 05
   counselling / management
03.  additional Experiences
 (for each year exceeding 5 years or 10 years in which it is considered as the basic  40 
 qualifications)
  i.  for each one year in grade ii of the post - 03
  ii.  for each one year in grade i of the post - 05
04.  computer Literacy  
 (Marks will be awarded to the maximum qualification)
  1.  For a diploma / certificate course on computer for one year or more duration  05 
   than  that from an Institution recognized by the appointing authority  - 05
  2.  For a diploma / certificate course on computer for six month or more duration
   than that from an Institution recognized by the appointing authority  - 03
05.  English language proficiency   
 (Marks will be awarded to the maximum qualification)
  1.  Obtaining the first degree / post graduate degree / post graduate diploma in  05   
English medium / passing English as a subject for the degree / passing 
   English as a subject for G. c. E. (advanced Level)  - 05

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
378
  2.  Obtaining a diploma / certificate course on English Language for one year or 
   more from a recognized Institution or obtaining a distinction pass for the 
   English language in G. c. E. (ordinary Level)  - 03
  3.  Obtaining a diploma / certificate course on English Language for six month or
   more from a recognized Institution or obtaining a credit pass for the English 
   language in G. c. E. (ordinary Level)  - 02
 
  4.  For a certificate course on English language of not less than 03 months  - 01
06.  For special activities / programs / projects performed in the professional field  
 (district Secretary or divisional Secretary should be recommended)   
  1.  creative activities done on behalf of the disabled persons (the activities which  20
   have been initiated from the divisional level and have been developed up to the
   national level)  - 05
  2.  Successful activities with the priority of community in association with self - 
   esteem group / voluntary representatives  - 05
  3. the projects which have been obtained national / international victories with 
   regard to the subject scope of the disabled beneficiaries in Divisional or   
   district level  - 05
  4.  Projects and programs made in creative manner in addition to the benefits and
   provisions provided by other Ministries and departments for empowering the 
   beneficiaries  - 05
  5.  other special activities / programs  - 05
07.  Merit shown at the interview  05
Releasing examination Results.– The list of notification including the selected applicants prepared on the basis 
of the merits of both written examination and structured interview equal to the existing vacancies will be sent to the 
Secretary, Public Service commission. theraafter, as directed by the Public Service commission, the result will be either 
sent personally to all applicants or published on www.exams.results.gov.lk ; the official website of the Department of 
Examinations for results release.
(12) Note.– Participating in the interview should not be taken as an acknowledgement that the candidate has 
satisfied the qualifications required to grant the appointment.
as per the order of the Public Service commission,
(13) ‘‘in case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases of this notice, which is published in Sinhala, tamil 
and English languages, the Sinhala notice will be considered as the correct one’’.
 
mahinda SeneVirathna,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Social Empowerment and Welfare.
Ministry of Social Empowerment and Welfare,
1 floor, Sethsiripaya Stage ii,
battaramulla,
on this day 06th february, 2017.
  Heads to be checked to award marks Maximum  
  marks

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
379
(For office use only)
the limited competitiVe examination For the 
recruitment to the poStS oF oFFicer - in - charge in 
Vocational training centerS under the department oF 
Social SerViceS - 2017
1.0 Medium :
 Sinhala - 2  t amil  - 3
 (Please write the relevant number in the box)
 (the application should be completed in the 
medium of language you wish to appear for the 
examination)
2.0 Personal information :
  2.1 Name in full :––––––––––––.
   (in block letters)
   (ex: (HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
  2.2 Name with last name at the beginning and initials 
of other names at the end :––––––––––––.
   (in block letters)
   (ex: (GuNa WaRdHaNa, H. M. S. K)
  2.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala/ tamil)
  2.4 Official Address (In block letters) :––––––––––.
   (the admission is posted to this address)
  2.5 Official Address :––––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala / tamil)
  2.6 Sex : Male - 0   female - 1
   (Write relevant number in the cage)
  2.7 National identity card No. :
  2.8 Marital Status :
   unmarried - 1 Married - 2
   (write relevant number in the cage)
  2.9 Nationality :
   (Sinhala-1, tamil-2, indian tamil-3, 
   Muslim -4, others - 5)
   (write relevant number in the cage)
 2.10 date of birth :
   y ear : Month : date :
 2.11 telephone Number :
3.0   (i) Educational Qualifications and Experience :
   Educational Qualifications whether with the 
degree / without degree :––––––––––––.
   date on which the degree was obtained :–––––––.
   university / institution (Name) :––––––––––––.
   Registration Number:––––––––––––.
   External / internal :––––––––––––.
   Subjects studied :––––––––––––.
   class :––––––––––––.
   upper / Lower :––––––––––––.
   Valid date for the degree :––––––––––––.
   the medium of language you appeared for the 
examinations :––––––––––––.
4. Experience:
 (i) date of appointment to the post of Social 
Services Officer :––––––––––––.
 
 (ii) Date on which you have been confirmed in the 
post :––––––––––––.
 (iii)  the Grade in which you are serving at present 
:––––––––––––.
 (iv)  date of appointment / promotion to the said 
Grade :––––––––––––.
 (v)  Period of service from the said appointment of 
Social Services Officer Grade I/II to the date 
of 20.03.2017 :––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt properly here
5.0 declaration of the applicant :
i have earned all my due increments during the 
immediately preceding five (05) years period to the date 
of ................... and in accordance with the chapter 04 b of 
the Gazette Notification, I have completed the active and 

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
380
satisfactory service period to the date of ....................... 
and during the said period i have not been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishment (apart from the warning). further, 
i adhere to the decisions taken in connection with the 
holding of the examination and releasing of results by the 
commissioner General of Examination.
in terms of the rules and regulations of the Gazette 
notification, I am qualified to appear for the examination, 
Moreover, i do hereby certify that the information furnished 
by me are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge 
and belief and I declare that I have affixed the invoice 
No. ................ dated ............. to the given area of the 
application after paying the examination fee. in addition, i 
agree to abide by all the rules and regulations applicable to 
this examination enforced by the commissioner General of 
Examinations. i further agree that my candidature is liable 
to cancelled before, during or after the examination if it is 
found that i am ineligible in terms of the Service Minute 
which carries provisions on this examination.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––––.
06. Certification of the Head of the Department : (As per 
the personal file of the Applicant) :
this is to certify Mr./ Mrs./ Miss. .......................... 
submitting this application is serving in the post of Social 
Services Officer and he / she has earned all his / her due 
increments during the immediately preceding five (05) 
years period to the date of ...................... and during the said 
period he / she has not been subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment (apart from the warning) and in accordance 
with the chapter 04 b of the Gazette  Notification, he / she 
has completed the active and satisfactory service period of 
(five years / ten years) to the date of ....................... and in 
accordance with the regulations mentioned in the Gazette 
notification, he / she has obtained the qualifications to 
appear for the examinations and has pasted the invoice after 
paying the precise examination fee. Moreover, i certify that 
he/ she put her signature before me.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department.
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
02-696
GENERAL  SIR  jOhN  kOTELAWALA  DEfENCE  
uNIvERSITy  uNDERGRADuATE  CADETShIPS  
(mALE / fEmALE)
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified Sri 
Lankans for undergraduate cadetships (Male & female) 
at General Sir John Kotelawala defence university 
Ratmalana and its Southern campus Suriyawewa from 
12.02.2017 to 11.03.2017. 
2. General Sir John Kotelawala defence university has 
been empowered to award Degrees to those Officer Cadets 
who, after being enlisted to the commissioned officer ranks 
in the Regular forces of the tri-Services will successfully 
complete the academic & military components of studies 
pertaining to the degree programmes by the General Sir 
John Kotelawala defence academy act, No. 68 of 1981 
and subsequent amendments thereto.
3. The degree programmes applicable to the Officer 
cadets will be conducted at, 
Kdu - Ratmalana
 (i) bachelor of Medicine and bachelor of Surgery 
(MbbS) degree (5 years)
 (ii) bachelor of Science honours in Engineering 
degree (4 1/2 years)
 (iii) bachelor of Laws (LLb) degree (4 years)
 (iv) bachelor of Science honours in computer 
Science degree (4 1/2 years)
 (v) bachelor of Science honours in Software 
Engineering degree (4 1/2 years)
 (vi) bachelor of Science honours in computer 
Engineering degree (4 1/2 years)
 (vii) bachelor of Science in Logistics Management 
degree (3 years)
 (viii) bachelor of Science in Management and 
technical Sciences degree (3 years)
 (ix) bachelor of Science in Social Sciences degree 
(3 years)
Southern campus - Suriyawewa
 (x)  bachelor of architecture degree (5 1/2 years)
 (xi) bachelor of Science honours in built 
Environment degree (4 1/2 years)
 (xii) bachelor of Science in built Enviornment 
degree (3 1/2 years)
 (xiii) bachelor of Science honours in Quantity 
Surveying degree (4 1/2 years)
 (xiv) bachelor of Science honours in Surveying 
Sciences degree (4 1/2 years)

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
381
 (xv) bachelor of Science honours in information technology degree (4 1/2 years)
 (xvi) bachelor of Science honours in information Systems degree (4 1/2 years)
3.1. The allocation of Officer Cadets for the three services will be based on the availability of vacancies in each 
service and the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews, conducted for selection. Officer Cadets will be 
commissioned in the Regular forces of the Sri Lanka army, Navy or air force, after successful completion of 
the degree programmes. 
 3.2 on successful completion of the academic and military training components of the respective degree programmes, 
the Officer Cadets will be awarded one of the following degrees :
 (i) bachelor of Medicine and bachelor of Surgery (MbbS)
 (ii) bachelor of Science Honours in Engineering
 (iii) bachelor of Laws (LLb)
 (iv) bachelor of Science Honours in computer Science
 (v) bachelor of Science Honours in Software Engineering
 (vi) bachelor of Science Honours in computer Engineering
 (vii) bachelor of Science in Logistics Management
 (viii) bachelor of Science in Management and technical Sciences
 (ix) bachelor of Science in Social Sciences
 (x) bachelor of architecture
 (xi) bachelor of Science Honours in built Environment
 (xii) bachelor of Science in built Environment
 (xiii) bachelor of Science Honours in Quantity Surveying
 (xiv) bachelor of Science Honours in Surveying Sciences
 (xv) bachelor of Science Honours in information technology
 (xvi) bachelor of Science Honours in information Systems
 3.3 all degree programmes are conducted only in the medium of English. 
 3.4 Selected candidates will be allowed to follow one of the following bachelor’s degree Programmes in accordance 
with their qualifications.
 (a) Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) – Five years (Male):
  for those who have followed bio-Science Stream (biology, chemistry and Physics) at the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination in 2016, obtained a minimum of three Simple passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university 
admission. 
 (b) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in Engineering in Aeronautical /Aircraft maintenance/bio-medical/
Civil/Electrical & Electronic/Electronic and Telecommunication/marine/mechanical/mechatronic - 
four and a half years (male) :
  for those who have followed maths Stream (chemistry, Physics and combined Mathematics) at the G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination in 2016 or 2015, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) and are eligible to apply 
for university admission. 
 (c) Bachelor of Laws (LLB) - Four years (Female) :
  for those who have obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) for any three of the following subjects at 
the G. c. E. (a/L) Exmination in 2016 or 2015 and are eligible to apply for university admission : 

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
382
  accounting Elements of Political Science agricultural Science
  Geography biology Higher Mathematics
  business Statistics History business Studies
  Logic and Scientific Method Chemistry Economics
  Physics Mathematics/combined Mathematics
  communication and Media Studies information and communication technology
  or
  those who have obtained minimum Simple Passes (S) for one or two subjects from the above list and for the 
other two subjects or one subject from the following list at the G. c. E. (a/L) examination and are eligible to 
apply for university admission. 
 
  Buddhism/Buddhist Civilization Greek Tamil
  Christianity/Christian Civilization Hinduism/Hindu Civilization Latin
  Greek and Roman Civilization Islam/Islamic Civilization French
  Japanese chinese Sinhala
  English (Subject No. 73) Pali arabic
  Sanskrit German 
  agro t echnology drama and theater
 (d) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in Computer Science - four and a half years (male)
  for those who have followed maths Stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2016 or 2015, obtained a 
minimum of Simple Passes (S), for Combined mathematics, Physics and any one of the following subjects 
and are eligible to apply for university admission 
  Chemistry,  higher mathematics 
  Information and Communication Technology
 (e) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in Software Engineering - four and a half years (male)
  for those who have followed maths Stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2016 or 2015, obtained a 
minimum of Simple Passes (S), for Combined mathematics, Physics and any one of the following subjects 
and are eligible to apply for university admission 
  Chemistry,  higher mathematics 
  Information and Communication Technology
 (f) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in computer Engineering - four and a half years (male)
  for those who have followed maths Stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2016 or 2015, obtained a 
minimum of Simple Passes (S), for Combined mathematics, Physics and any one of the following subjects 
and are eligible to apply for university admission 
  Chemistry,  higher mathematics 
  Information and Communication Technology
 (g) Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Logistics Management – Three years (Male & Female) :
  for those who have followed bio, maths or Commerce Streams at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2016 
or 2015, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (h) Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Management & Technical Sciences - Three years (Male) :
  for those who have followed bio or maths Stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2016 or 2015, 
obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (i) Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Social Sciences – Three years (Male and Female) :
  for those who have followed any stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2016 or 2015, obtained a 
minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (j) bachelor of Architecture (b Arch) - five and a half years (male)
  with two exit points in 3rd and 4th years respectively with following degrees :

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
383
  bachelor of Science (bSc) in built Environment - Three and a half years (male)
  bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in built Environment - four and a half years (male)
  for those who have followed three (3) of the following subjects at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2016 or 
2015, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S) and are eligible to apply for university admission :
 (i) at least one of the following subjects,
  biology 
  Higher Mathematics
  chemistry  
  Physics
  commined Mathematics
  art 
  Geography
  and
 (ii) the remaining subject/subjects from the following list : 
  Accounting Logic and Scientific Methods
  Hindu Civilization Mathematics
  business Statistics Sanskrit
  Islamic Civilization German
  Greek and Roman Civilization Arabic
  Elements of Political Science History
  English (Subject No. 73) business Studies
  Sinhala Japanese
  Christian Civilization Economics
  communication and Media Studies Pali
  Hindi french
  Buddhist Civilization Tamil
  Home Economics information and communication technology
  agricultural Science chinese
and
 (iii) at least a credit Pass (c) in mathematics i or ii at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination or a Simple Pass (S) 
in Mathematics at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination ;
  and
 (iv) a  pass at the spatial cognition test conducted by Kdu.
 (k) Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Surveying Sciences - Four and a half years (Male):
  for those who have followed maths Stream at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2016 or 2015, obtained a 
minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
 (l) Bachelor of Science (BSc) Honours in Quantity Surveying - Four and a half years (Male):
  for those who have followed three (3) of the following subjects at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2016 or 
2015, obtained a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are eligible to apply for university admission. 
  At least one subject from, 
  combined Mathematics/Higher Mathematics 
  and the other subject/subjects from the following list :
 accounting Economics business Statistics
 business Studies Physics chemistry
 information and communication technology

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
384
  In addition, candidates should satisfy the 
following minimum requirements at the            
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination. 
  (a) a credit Pass (c) in Mathematics i or ii
  (b) a Simple Pass (S) in Science i or ii.
 (m) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in 
Information Technology - four and a half 
years (male) :
  for those who have followed the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination in a ny stream other than the 
Technology Stream in 2016 or 2015, obtained 
a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are 
eligible to apply for university admission.
 (n) bachelor of Science (bSc) honours in 
Information Systems - four and a half years 
(male) :
  for those who have followed the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination in any stream other than the 
Technology Stream in 2016 or 2015, obtained 
a minimum of three Simple Passes (S), and are 
eligible to apply for university admission. 
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a 
range of common and special subjects pertaining 
to respective degree Programmes, including 
English, Management, information technology, 
Law, international Studies and Military Studies. 
3.6 they are also required to undergo continuous 
training in Physical development, drill, Weapon 
training and Leadership, during their degree 
Programmes. 
4. Other eligibility requirements for Officer Cadets.– 
the candidates should be : 
 (a) A citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years 
of age on 11th march, 2017. 
Educational Qualifications : 
 (c) the candidate should be eligible to apply for 
university admission having obtained a minimum 
of three Simple Passes (S) in the relevant stream 
of the G. c. E. (a/L) examination, and should 
have : 
 (i) Passed the common General test ; 
 (ii) obtained a minimum of a credit (c) pass for 
English language at G. c. E. (ordinary Level) 
Examination for all degree programmes.
 (d) the following minimum physical standards should 
be satisfied : 
     
  Male Female
height army  5'6"   5'3"
 Navy  5'6" 5'3"
 air force  5'6" 5'4" 
Weight army 50kg –
 Navy 52kg 41kg
 air force 17<bMi<25 17<bMi<25
Chest  32" (unexpanded) –
Note.– (if a candidate possesses National Level 
achievements in sports or other relevant 
activities, the above physical standards may be 
relaxed by the Secretary, Ministry of defence 
and chairman of the board of Management, 
General Sir John Kotelawala defence 
university).
 (e) The candidates should conform to the required 
medical standards.– Successful candidates are 
required to pass a medical test following the 
submission of a Medical declaration form in 
the prescribed format to the satisfaction of the 
Secretary, Ministry of defence and chairman 
of the board of Management, General Sir John 
Kotelawala defence university. if a candidate is 
found to have provided false information in the 
Medical declaration form, prior to the selection, 
such candidate shall be disqualified and liable to 
be discharged on the grounds of the provision of 
false information. 
  (medical Declaration form can be downloaded 
from the university Website www.kdu.ac.lk)
 (f) The candidate should be unmarried. (No Officer 
cadet will be permitted to get married whilst under 
training and until permitted to do so by Service 
Regulations.)
5. Condition of Service .– Selected candidates will be 
enlisted as Officer Cadets of General Sir John Kotelawala 
defence university, Ratmalana or its Southern campus, 

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
385
Suriyawewa. they will be subjected to laws, regulations 
and orders made or given under the General Sir John 
Kotelawala defence academy act, No. 68 of 1981 and 
subsequent amendments thereto. An Officer Cadet shall 
serve in the armed service in which he is commissioned as 
an Officer for a continuous and uninterrupted period of not 
less than (12) twelve years from the date on which he is 
graduated in the respective degree Programme. 
6. at the time of enlistment selected candidates will have 
to enter into a bond and an agreement with the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory 
period as aforesaid, after being graduated in the respective 
degree programmes.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid approximately Rs. 38,000 
per month as pay and allowances. in addition, the following 
facilities will be provided free of charge: 
 (i) board and lodging ;
 (ii) uniforms ; 
 (iii) batman facilities ;
 (iv) Sports and recreational facilities ;
 (v) Medical facilities.
8. on being commissioned to the Regular forces of the 
Sri Lanka army, Navy or air force, they will be entitled for 
pay and allowances appropriate to the rank in accordance 
with the Service pay codes. 
(a)  the following allowances are payable monthly : 
 (i) Qualification allowance ;
 (ii) Ration allowance ;
 (iii) disturbance allowance when ordered to live in 
(for married officers only) ;
 (iv) uniform up keep allowance. 
(b)  other facilities and allowances : 
 (i) accommodation when ordered to live in ;
 (ii) Limited rent allowance when living in a rented 
house ; 
 (iii) uniform allowance ;
 (iv) batman allowance ; 
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be 
governed by the following regulations in respect of their 
pay prospects and conditions of Service :-
 (i) the army/Navy/air force pay code.
 (ii) Current regulations for officers of the Army/
Navy/air force published in the Sri Lanka 
Government Gazette. 
 (iii) current army/Navy/air force Pensions and 
Gratuity code pubilshed in the Sri Lanka 
Government Gazette.
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are 
required to undergo such training as may be prescribed by 
the Vice chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala defence 
university and /or respective Service commanders. 
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted 
for training in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad. 
12. Officer Cadets under training will be required to stay 
in accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down 
by the General Sir John Kotelawala defence university or 
by the respective Service establishments. 
13. Language Requirements.– Selected candidates 
will be required to comply with any rules and regulations 
already made or that may hereafter be made for giving 
effect to the language policy of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka. 
14. Proof of Identity.– candidates will be required to 
produce proof of their National identity. identity cards 
issued by the department of Registration of Persons or the 
Post Master - General valid passport or driving License 
issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accepted 
for this purpose. 
15. Applications.– application forms and the brochures 
can be downloaded from the university Website                           
www.kdu.ac.lk.
16. duly completed applications should accompany 
a receipt obtained by paying Rs. 1,000 (one thousand 
Rupees) to any branch of the bank of ceylon in favour 
of “the Vice chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala 
defence university” to be credited to the current account 
Number “9405831” of the bank of ceylon, idama branch, 
Moratuwa. The applications without basic qualifications 
and  not duly filled in accordance with the conditions 
mentioned herein will be rejected without notification 
and in such instances. the application fee will not be 

<!-- page 50 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'02'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.02.2017
386
refunded. a board appointed by Vice-chancellor will 
review all applications received and shortist according to 
qualifications of the candidates. Those who are shortlisted 
will be called for the preliminary interview. 
17. the duly completed applications should be 
forwarded to "the Registrar, General Sir John Kotelawala 
defence university, Ratmalana" under registered cover to 
reach him on or before 11.03.2017. 
"application for cadetships" and the stream applied, 
should be written on the top left-hand corner of the 
envelope. applications received after the closing date or 
do not conform to the requirements of this notification will 
be rejected. 
18. Applications from officers in Government Service 
and corporations or Statutory bodies should be forwarded 
through the Head of the departments/corporations/
Statutory Bodies and they should accompany a certificate 
issued by the relevant institutional head to the effect that 
the Officer would be released if selected. 
19. Applications should accompany only the certified 
copies of the certificate of Registration of Birth, G. C. E. 
(O/L), G. C. E. (A/L) result sheets with a certification for 
being qualified for University admission( Yes).
20. Preliminary selection will be made from among 
those candidates who have achieved the required standards 
in accordance with the evaluation criteria determined 
by the Selection committee appointed by the board of 
Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala defence 
University. Candidates who are selected from the first 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
interview will be required to undergo tests as may be 
prescribed by the board of Management of the General Sir 
John Kotelawala Defence University. The final selection 
will be made by the final Selection committee appointed 
by the board of Management of the General Sir John 
Kotelawala defence university. 
21. candidates who are selected for interviews and tests 
will be informed in writing of the venues, times and the 
dates of such interviews. travelling or other expenses for 
this purpose will not be paid to applicants. 
22. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving him a testimonial.  any form of 
canvassing would be considered as a disqualification. 
23. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
No correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with 
regard to rejected applications. 
24. if a disparity exists between the Sinhala language 
and tamil language in the Gazette notification, you are 
hereby requested to follow the instructions as per the 
Gazette notification in Sinhala language. 
 Eng
. KarunaSena hettiarachchi, 
 Secretary,
 Ministry of defence and
 chairman of the board of Management 
 General Sir John Kotelawala 
 defence university. 
02–883