

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
789
789
wxl 1"770 - 2012 wf.daia;= ui 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'08'03
No. 1,770 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 03, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 24th August, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th
August, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
(Acting)  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 790
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,769 of 27.07.2012 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
790
Provincial  Council  Notifications
1. This  declaration is named "No. ....................... the  Declaration of formalizing Community Based Organizations
(Water Supply and Environmental Sanitary Facilities) of 2012  of North  Western Provincial Council" and will be
valid from the date of approval by the  Governor of North Westen Province.
PART I
THE ESTABLISHMENT  OF COMMUNITY BASED ORGANIZATIONS FOUNDING A PROVINCIAL UNIT TO DIRECT AND FORMALIZE SUCH
ORGANIZATIONS AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF THE  UNIT
2. A Provincial unit  for water supply and environmental sanitary facilities needed for the  implementation  of this
declaration and for the  fulfillment of the  objectives and duties of the Provincial Committe henceforth called
"Provincial Unit" can be established  in the Office of the Secretary of the  Provincial Ministry of Local Governance.
3. (i) As the  Dircetor of the  Provincial Unit, an Administrative Grade Officer should be appointed by the
Secretary of the Ministry.
(ii) The staff assistance to perform  the duties of the  Provincial Unit can be obtained from any Staff Officer
works in public setor within the North Western Province by assigning the duty. The  Chief Secretary of the
province  can take the necessary regulations through standards.
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Specification Statute No. .................... of 2012 on Community Based Organizations (Water Supply and
Environmental Sanitary) of the North Western Provincial Council
IT is hereby notified that the Community Based Organizations (Water Supply and Environmental Sanitary) Specification Statute No. ..........
of 2012 of the North Western Provincial Council published below, will be submitted to the Provincial Council at the expiration of a period
of thirty days from today. If any person wanted to submit any provisions related to this statute should be addressed to me on or before the
expiration of the date.
ATHULA SARATH KUMARA WIJESINGHE,
Chief Minister of the North Western Provincial Council and
Provincial Minister of the subjects of Finance and Planning,
Law and Order, Local Government and Provincial
Administration, Manpower, Education and Cultural Affairs,
Lands, Transport, Environment, Tourism, Investment, Co-ordination,
Co-operative Development and Food Supply and Distribution.
No. .................THE DECLARATION  OF FORMALIZING COMMUNITY  BASED  ORGANIZATIONS
(WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITARY FACILITIES ) OF 2012  OF
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
 A declaration on the establishment of Community Based Organizations for the  initialization and maintenance of sustainable
Water Supply and Environmental Sanitary facilities schemes, the establishment of  a  unit under the relevant  Ministry  to dire ct and
formalize such  organizations and imposing regulations on the same.
The draft is thus drawn by the North Western Provincial  Council of the  Democratic Socialist Republic  of Sri Lanka.
A declaration on the  establishment of Community Based  Organizations  for  the initialization and maintenance of sustainable
Water Supply and  Environmental Sanitary facilities schemes, the  establishment  of a unit under  the relevant Ministry to
direct and formalize such  organizations and imposing regulations on  the same.
The draft is thus  drawn by the  North Western Provincial Council of the  Democratic Socialist Republic  of Sri Lanka.
Classified Name and
Date of
Implementation.
Establishment of the
Povincial Unit.
The structure of the
Provincial Unit.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
791
4. The  administration regarding all the activities and the  duties will be assigned to the  Secretary of Local
Governance under  the command of Provincial  Chief Secretary.
5. According to the above mentioned section 3 an officer who is assigned in the Provincial  Unit in addition to his/
her premanent post  can be paid  extra payments or allowances in addition to their salary.
PART II
THE  REGISTRATION AND  SUPERVISION OF COMMUNITY BASED ORGANIZA TIONS
6. (1) By  the  time this  declaration is to be empowered all the community based organizations operating,
administrating or engaging in any other activities regarding water supply or environmental sanitary schemes
within  the Province should  get themselves registered by submitting an application.
(2) All the community based organizations willing to engage in any of the schemes on water supply or
environmental sanitary services after  the date this declaration is empowered, should submit an application
to the Chief of the  Provincial Unit before 14 days of the starting date of the scheme.
(3) The Chief of the Provincial Unit should take steps regarding the application mentioned in the above
subsections  (1) and  (2) within 30 days by registration or by rejection with  reasoning.
7. (1) After getting  registered every community based organization should get an annual license from the Provin-
cial Unit.
(2) A duly completed application should be submitted to the  Chief of the Provincial Unit to get the license. The
Chief of the Provincial Unit can ask for the  Bacterial and Chemical Assessment Report of the  particular
water source, the Audit Report of the community based organization or any  other  relevant reports if
necessary.
(3) By taking into consideration the  above reports and  other related factors the  decision whether to issue a
license or not, should  be made  by the Chief of the Provincial Unit.
(4) If the  license is not to be issued it should be informed in writing to the particular community based
organization along with  the relevant report  and proper reasoning by the  Chief of the  Provincial Unit within
a month of time from  the date application is submitted.
(5) An appeal can be made regarding such a rejected application, to the Secretary within two weeks of time from
the date of rejection. And  the Secretary can take  a suitable decision regarding the appeal.
(6) If a community based organization is found engaging in drinking water supply without a license, it has to be
dealt in accordance with  section 5 of this  declaration.
(8) The authority for supervision,  investigation and advisory of the  activities  assets and responsibilities of
such  community based  organization  which are registered under section 6 of this declaration, belongs to the
Provincial  Unit or to the  local  government bodies in accordance with  the guidance and suggestions made
by the Provincial Unit.
9. (1) The guidance and suggestions for the  community based  organization  which  are registered under  section
6 can be made by the Provincial Minister in charge of the relevant subject.
(2) Any guidance and  suggestions made by the  Minister should  be informed to the community based
organization by the  Chief of the  Provincial Unit.
(3) If it is found  that any community based organization  not following  or purposely neglecting such  guidance
and suggestions, the  Minister can appoint  an investigating officer  and can direct the matter to the Secretary
in charge to act accordance with  the recommendations of the investigating officer.
(4) The Minister can make orders according  to fulfill the requirements of this declaration where necessary.
The administration of
Provincial Unit.
The salaries and
incentives of
Provincial Unit.
Registration of
Communiy Based
Organizations.
Annual license.
The supervision of
Community Based
Organizations.
The authority
possessed by the
Minister.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
792
(5) The Minister can impose general as well as special  regulations regarding  the  Provincial Committee and
Regional Committees.
(6) While the Provincial Committee operationalizes its auhorities and duties, the orders can be made by the
Minister as the  same as they used to be.
10.  (1) The  assets and liabilities of  any water supply or  sanitary projects within the Province  run by the
community based organizations which  are not registered under section 6 or not  obtained the annual license
in under section 7 can be seized by the  local  government bodies with  the permission of Secretary of the
relevant Ministry.
(2) Such a seized project can be controlled by the  same local government  bodies under  the patronage of the
Secretary of the  relevant Ministry or can  be handed over  to a community based organization reorganized
in accordance with  the  regulations imposed by the Secretary.
P
ART III
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PROVINCIAL COMMITTEE ON WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITARY
FACILITIES ; ITS  STRUCTURE AND ITS DUTIES
11. A provincial co-ordinating committee regarding water  supply and environmental sanitary facilities which  is
henceforth  to be called "Provincial Committee" should  be established by the  Minister in charge of the  relevant
subject.
12. The Provincial Committee should  consist of the following members :
(a) The  Chief Secretary of the  Provincial Council is the Chairperson of the  Committee,
(b) The Chief of the Provincial Unit is the Secretary of the Committee,
(c) The Secretary of the Provincial Ministry of Local Governance,
(d) The Commissioner of Provincial  Local Governance,
(e) A representative of the District Registrar,
(f) The Secretary of Provincial Ministry of Education,
(g) The Deputy Chief Secretary of Provincial Engineering Services,
(h) The Provincial  Deputy Superintendent  of National Water Supply and Irrigation,
(i) The  Provincial  Director of Health Services,
(j) The  Director of Provincial Environmental Authority,
(k) The Chairpersons of  Local Government Bodies who operate drinking water supply and sanitary schemes,
(l) The  Chairperson of the  District Forum of Community Based Organizations,
(m) The Chief of the exising or any expected drinking water supply and sanitary scheme is to be functioned on
funds,
(n) The Directors of the Provincial Department  of Roads and Department of Highways.
13. The duties of the  Provincial Committee is as follows :
(a) Policymaking  and activity planning regarding water supply and environmental sanitary facilities,
Un - registration of
Community Based
Organizations.
Provincial
Committee.
The structure of the
Provincial
Committee.
The duties of The
Provincial
Committee.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
793
(b) Finding out water supply and environmental sanitary facilities needs within the  province,
(c) Apporval of the development projects presented by the unit,
(d) Deciding the process of operation and maintenance of the existing water and environmental sanitary facilities,
(e) Making recommendations  to the Minister in charge regarding funding the water supply and environmental
sanitary facilities proposals and programmes,
(f) Acting as the co-ordinating institute in obtaining funds from Government, Non-government and Private
aiding organizations funding water supply and environmental sanitary facilities.
14. (1) The meetings should  be held once in two months with  the presence of  all the members of the Committee.
If necessary extra meetings can be called by the  Secretary under the suggestion of the Chairperson.
(2) The minimum  number for a session must be 10 members.
PART IV
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF REGIONAL CO-ORDINATING COMMITTEES REGARDING W ATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
SANITARY FACILITIES ; ITS STRUCTURE AND ITS DUTIES
15. A Regional Co-ordinating Committee regarding water supply and environmental sanitary facilities which  is
henceforth to be  called  "Regional Committee" should  be established by in every Local Government  territory
within the Province.
16. The objectives  of the  Regional  Committees is to assist the Provincial Committee while in policymaking and  in
making  managerial decisions  for its efforts to certify all the citizens live in the provicial territory a sustainable
water supply and proper environmental sanitary facilites.
17. The Regional Committee should  consist of the following members :
(a) The Chairman of the Local Government Institution is the  Chairperson of  the Regional Committee,
(b) The Water and Sanitary Affairs Officer of that Local Government Institution is Secretary of the Regional
Committee,
(c) The Regional Officer or his representative,
(d) The Secretary of the Local Government Institution,
(e) The  Divisional Director of Education of  the particular region,
(f) Regional Health Officer or his  representative,
(g) A staff representative nominated by the Provincial Deputy Superintendent of National Water Supply and
Irrigation,
(h) The Chairperson and the Secretary of the Regional Forum of Community Based Organizations,
(i) The Regional Officer of the Agricultural Services.
18. The duties of  the Regional Committee within a Local Government territory are  as follows :
(a) Identifying the problems in drinking water supply and environmental sanitary needs,
(b) The supervision of the  quality and the maintenance of the  water supply and environmental sanitary services,
The meetings of the
Provincial
Committee.
Regional
Committees.
The Objectives of
Regional
Committees.
The structure of the
Regional Committee.
The duities of
Regional Committee.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
794
(c) The supervision and operationalization of the  activities  of community based organizations,
(d) Inter co-ordination among community based organizations,
(e) Accomplishing the  duties assigned  by the Provincial Committee,
19. (1) The Regional Committees have all authority to accomplish the duties mentiond above in section 18.
(2) The Regional Committees have  all authority to complete the duties assigned by the  Provincial Committee
through  the Chief of the Provincial Unit.
(3) While the  Regional Committees operationalize their authorities and duties it is a  must to act in accordance
with  the general and  special regulations made  by the  Provincial Committee.
20. (1) The meetings should  be held once  in two months with  the presence  of the members of the Regional
Committee. If necessary extra meetings can be  called by the  Secretary under  the suggestion of the
Chairperson.
(2) The minimum number  for a session must 2/3 of the number of members.
(3) The procedures of the meetings can be designed by a Regional Committee itself.
PART V
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE  REGIONAL DRINKING  W ATER AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITARY UNIT
21. A Regional Unit of Drinking  Water and Environmental Sanitary which  is henceforth  to be called "Regional Unit"
is needed for the implementation of this declaration and for the  fulfilment of the objectives and duties  of the
Regional Committee. It can be established in the Office of Local Government Institution.
22. The staff assistance to perform the  duties of the  Regional Unit established under section 21 can be obtained from
any person works  in Local  Government  Institutions  within the North  Western Province by assigning the duty
irrespective of the rank. The regulations to assign the  duties should be imposed by the Commissioner of Local
Governance of the Province through standards.
23. The adminstration  regarding  all the  activities and the  duties done by the  Regional Unit will be imposed to the
Chairman of the Local Government Institution under the  guidance of the  Commissioner of Local Governmance
and the  Director of the Unit.
24. According to the above mentioned section 22 an officer who is  assigned in the Regional Unit  in addition to his/
her  permanent post can be paid extra payments or allowances in addition to their salary.
P
ART VI
FINANCIAL ENDOWMENTS
25. The required financial assistance  to operationalize can be obtained through,
(a) The income -expenditure publications and budget estimates of the  Provincial Council,
(b) The budgets of Local Government Institutions,
(c) Non - government  organizations, private institutions or any other  external source,
(d) The funding given for the  projects.
26. According to this  declaration the following terms refer  to :
(a) Minister - The Provincial Minister of the  relevant Ministry ;
(b) Chief Secretary - The Chief Secretary of Provincial Secretary ;
(c) Secretary - The Secretary of the Ministry Local Governance ;
The authorities of
Regional Committee.
The meetings of the
Regional
committees.
Regional Drinking
Water and
Environmental
Sanitary Unit.
The staff of the
Regional Unit.
The administration
of  the Regional
Unit.
The salaries and
incentives of
Provincial Unit.
Financial
endowments.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
795
(d) Commissioner - The Commissioner of the Local Governance ;
(e) National Water Supply and Irrigation Board  - The National Water Supply and Irrigation Board
established under the Ordinance, No. 2 of 1972 ;
(f) Community Based Organizations  - The organizations established representing the public who enjoy
the water supply and sanitary facilities under law or according to this declaration ;
(g) The District Forum of Community Based Organizations - The organization established  representing
ever regional community based organizations ;
(h) Water Supply - The definition put forward in section 117 of No. 15, Pradeshiya  Sabha Ordinance of
1987 ;
(i) Environmental Sanitary Facilities - The definition put  forward in No. 15, Pradeshiya Sabha Ordinance
of 1987.
N. B.– If  there is a contradiction between the  Sinhala and Tamil versions of this  declaration the  Sinhala
version should be taken as the  valid one.
08-179

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
796
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
797
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2012
AUGUST 03.08.2012 Friday — 20.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
10.08.2012 Friday –– 27.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
17.08.2012 Friday –– 03.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
24.08.2012 Friday –– 10.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
30.08.2012 Thursday –– 17.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 07.09.2012 Friday — 24.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
14.09.2012 Friday –– 30.08.2012 Thursday 12 noon
21.09.2012 Friday –– 07.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
28.09.2012 Friday –– 14.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
OCTOBER 05.10.2012 Friday — 21.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
12.10.2012 Friday –– 28.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
19.10.2012 Friday –– 05.10.2012 Friday 12 noon
25.10.2012 Thursday –– 12.10.2012 Friday 12 noon
B. K. S. R AVINDRA,
(Acting)  Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.