

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2553
2553
wxl 1"946 - 2015 foieïn¾ ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'12'18
No. 1,946 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 18, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2556
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2560
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th January, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd
December, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”.
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2554
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2555
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2556
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 19th January, 2016.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th November, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications is called Applications should be sent
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Galle Town East Division General, District Secretariat, Galle.
12–508
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
VA VUNIYA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2557
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th January, 2016.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
01st December, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Vavuniya Vavuniya South Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Kilakkumoolai South Division and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Marriages (General/Kandyan) of Vavuniya.
Vavuniya South Divisional Secretary's
Division (Sinhala Medium)
Vavuniya Vavuniya South Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Mamaduwa Division and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Marriages (General/Kandyan) of Vavuniya.
Vavuniya South Divisional Secretary's
Division (Sinhala Medium)
Vavuniya Vavuniya North Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Malepattu East Division and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Marriages (General) of Vavuniya North Vavuniya.
Divisional Secretary's  Division
(Tamil Medium)
Vavuniya Vavuniya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Naduchettikulam Division and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Marriages (General) of Vavuniya Vavuniya.
Divisional  Secretary's Division
(Tamil Medium)
12–518
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
GALLE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2558
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries.
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 19th January,
2016.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th November, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandewatta Area in Galle District General, District Secretariat, Galle.
Division
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Hirimbura Area in Galle District General, District Secretariat, Galle.
Division
12–510
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
NUWARAELIYA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2559
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 19th January,
2016.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th November, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
NuwaraEliya Hanguranketha Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Nuwaraeliya District, Hanguranketha General, District Secretariat,
Town Division NuwaraEliya.
12–509
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries.
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th January,
2016.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
27th November, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Darga Town of Kalutara and Panadura General, District Secretariat,
Thotamuna Division Kalutara.
12–511

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2560
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
AMPARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 19th January, 2016.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
30th November, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Ampara Ampara Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Ampara Town Division General, District Secretariat, Ampara.
12–512
MINISTRY   OF   SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT  AND
VOCATIONAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF CIRCUIT BUNGALOW
KEEPER OF PRELIMINARY SEMI TECHNICAL SERVICES
CA TEGORY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL
EDUCATION AND TRAINING – 2016
NOTIFICATION to calling applications to recruit to the post of
Circuit Bungalow Keeper of preliminary semi technical services
category of the Department of Technical Education and Training -
2013(2014) which was published in the Gazette No. 1884 dated
10.10.2014, is hereby repealed.
02. Applications are invited from persons who have fulfilled the
prescribed qualifications for the post of Circuit Bungalow Keeper of
Preliminary Semi Technical Services Category of Colleges of
Technology Ampara, Anuradhapura, Kandy and Technical Colleges
Monaragala, Weerawila, comes under the purview of the Department
of Technical Education and Training.
Post Number of Vacancies
1.   Circuit Bungalow Keeper 05
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2561
01. Recruitment Procedure.– Recruitment will be made on the
results of trade test and structural interview. Trade test will be held
first and candidates who got highest marks based on the merit order,
among the candidates who passed trade test, will be called for an
interview as twice the existing number of vacancies. Appointments
will be made on merit order according to the total marks obtained
from structural interview and trade test, for existing vacancies.
Trade Test :
Duration Maximum Pass Syllabus
(hours) Marks Marks
1. 02 100% 40% 1. House Keeping
2. Food processing
3. Offering Food
4. Cleanliness/Interest
Structural Interview :
Main headings, to be given marks Maximum Marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Additional Professional Qualifications 50
Additional Experience 25
Skills at the interview 05
Total 100
02. Educational Qualifications .– Have passed G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination in six (06) subjects, with at least 02 credit passes in not
more than two (02) sittings.
03. Professional Qualifications. – Should have obtained
proficiency not less than National V ocational Qualification (NVQ)
level - 2, under the field relevant to the post, from an institution,
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission,
as follows :
(i) A certificate of 06 months house keeping or cookery course
from hotel school ; or
(ii) A certificate of 06 month house keeping or cookery course,
conducted by the V ocational Training Authority ; or
(iii) Have followed and passed a course not less than 06 month
in House Keeping or cookery conducted by Government
or Government recognized Institution.
04. Service experience.– Have obtained 02 years experience in
relevant field in Government or recognized Institution.
05. Age Limit.– Not less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age as at the closing date of applications. Upper age limit is
not applicable for persons who are holding a permanent post in
Public Service.
06. Salary .– In terms of Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006(IV), Salary Scale Rs. 12,210 - 10x130 - 10x145 - 10x160
- 12x170 - Rs. 18,600 of Salary Code PL-2-2006(ta) is applicable to
this post.
07. All candidates, who apply for the above referred posts, should
be a Citizen of Sri Lanka with a moral character and have sufficient
physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to
discharge the duties of the post. All qualifications need to recruit to
the above referred post should have been fulfilled in every manner,
by the closing date of applications.
08. Mode of forwarding applications :
(i) Applications, should be sent under registered cover to
reach the "Director, General, Department of Technical
Education and Training, P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo - 10" on or before 18.01.2016. Applications,
received after that date will be rejected.
(ii) A specimen application, is indicated at the end of this
notification, Applicants should prepare their application,
in their own handwriting, in A4 size paper with No. 01 to
07 appearing in 1st page No. 08 to 11 appearing in 2nd
page and the rest in next pages.
(iii) The envelope enclosing the application should clearly be
marked "Application for the Post of Circuit Bungalow
Keeper" on the top left hand corner.
(iv) According to applications only applicants, who fulfilled
basic qualifications will be called for trade test.
(v) Fee for trade test is Rs. 400 and such fee should be paid at
any People's Bank branch in the Island to the Account
Number 176-100-139026228 (Mid City Branch) as
credited to the Director General, Department of Technical
Education and Training. The receipt obtained should be
firmly affixed in the application form. It will be useful to
keep a photocopy of the application and a receipt.
Examination fee will not be refunded under any
circumstances and money order and stamps will not be
accepted.
(vi) Signature of candidate should be attested by a Principal
of a Government School/A Justice of a Peace /
Commissioner of Oaths / Attorney-at-law/Notary
Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Force or an
officer holding a permanent post in the Government with
monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 20,030.
(vii) Officers, who are already in Public or Provincial Public
Service should submit applications through their Head of
the Department.
(viii) Applications, without conformity with the specimen
application form, will be rejected. Inquiries about
applications lost or delayed will not be accepted.
Applicants are advised to send their applications in time

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2562
to avoid the possibility of postal delay. Receipt of
application will not be acknowledged. Incomplete
applications and applications which not fulfilled
prescribed qualifications will be rejected.
(ix) Your candidature will be repealed, if any information
mentioned in the application, being detected as incorrect
or false, before the recruitment. If such information being
detected after the recruitment, action will be taken to
dismiss from the service, subject to the procedure relevant
thereto.
09. Implementation of Official Languages Policy. – Relevant
proficiency level of official language, should be obtained, in terms of
provisions of the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014.
10. Procedure to Trade Test :
(i) Admission Cards will be issued by the Director General of
Department of Technical Education and Training to the
candidates who sent applications formally and fulfilled
basic qualifications. Candidates, appearing for trade test
should submit their admission card, with their duly attested
signature. Permission will not be granted any candidate to
appear trade test, without submitting the admission card.
(ii) Travelling expenses or any other allowances, incure by the
candidates for appearing for trade test will not be paid.
(iii) Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction
of the supervisor. Any one of the following documents
only, will be accepted for this purpose :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ; or
(b) A valid passport.
(iv) Candidates will subject to the rules and regulations,
stipulated by the Director General of the Department of
Technical Education and Training, relating to conduct trade
test.
11. Conditions of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the Widows and Orphans/Widowers and
Orphans Pension Fund.
(ii) Candidates should liable to serve in any College of
Technology/Technical College, comes under the purview
of this Department, as would be stipulated.
(iii) Selected candidates should subject to the provisions of
scheme of recrutiment relevant to the post, provisions
in Establishments Code, Financial Regulations and to
the rules and regulations issued by the Government or
Line Ministry or Director General of the Department
of Technical Education and Training.
(iv) General conditions and provisions, mentioned in the
Procedural Rules, published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 by the Public Service
Commission are applicable.
12. Director General of the Department of Technical Education
and Training reserves the right to fill all or a part of the vacancies.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, the
Tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, Sinhala text
shall prevail.
J. A. R
ANJITH,
Director General.
Department of Technical Education and Training,
Colombo 10,
18th December, 2015.
A
PPLICATION FORM
For office use
APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF CIRCUIT BUNGALOW
KEEPER OF PRELIMINARY SEMI TECHNICAL SERVICES CATEGORY OF
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING - 2016
01. Name of the candidate :
(i) Name with initials, initials at the end (In block capital
letters) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Full Name (In block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
(iii) Full Name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Number :
(i) Official Address (In block capital letters) :–––––––––––.
Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address (In block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
Private Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(Any change in the Address or Telephone Number, should
be informed immediately).
03. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
04. Age as at closing date of applications :
Years :––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2563
06. Sex : Male/Female :––––––––––––.
07. Whether married/unmarried/widow :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––––,  Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade
09. Vocational Qualifications :
Examination/ Year Subjects Grade N ame of the
Certificate Institute/
Course University
10. Particulars of Experience :
Institutions, Post Period of Whether,
worked Service Government/Semi
Government/Private
11. (i) If you are a citizen of Sri Lanka state by decent or
registration (If registration, state details) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Race (Indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
Sinhalese - 1
Sri Lankan Tamil - 2
Sri Lankan Muslim - 3
Indian Origin - 4
Others - 5
12. Whether you have been dismissed from government post, that
you had been holding ? :––––––––––––.
13. If you are already in Public Service, are there any Departmental
disciplinary inquiries against you ? :––––––––––––.
14. Whether you have been convicted in a Court ? If so, state details :
––––––––––––.
15. People's Bank branch which trade test fee has been paid :––––.
Date of Payment :––––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particulars
contained there in are found to be false and incorrect before the
selection I am liable to disqualify and dismissal, without
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
16. Attestation of the signature of the candidate :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. is
personally known to me and placed his/her signature in my presence
on ..........................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of the certifying officer :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(This part is applicable only for candidates who engage in Government
employment)
Attestation of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................... who is working
in this Ministry/Department/Institution is working in the post of
....................... and his/her work and conduct are satisfactory, no
disciplinary action pending against him/her and no decision has been
taken to impose any such in future and prescribed trade test fee has
been paid and the receipt for the same is affixed. If she/he will be
selected for this post, he/she can/cannot be released from the service.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department or
Authorized Officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Seal)
12–542

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2564
SURVEY   DEPARTMENT
Limited Competitive Examination held for requirement to
the Posts of Survey Instrument Technician which remain
vacant in the Survey Department
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified departmental employees
for the competitive examination to be held to recruit to posts of
survey instrument technician which remain vacant in Survey
Department.
1.1 Post for which Number of Grade
recruitment is made vacancies
Survey Instrument Technician 01 Grade III
1.2 Nature of duties of the post :
* Maintenance and services of instruments pertaining to survey
works.
2. The number of appointment and the date of appointment will
be decided by the appointing authority. The appointing authority
has power to fill all or any number of vacancies.
3. Salary :
Table – No. 01
Grade Salary Scale Initial monthly
salary
Rs.
Grade III Monthly Rs. 14,425 -10x145 - 14,425
11x170 - 6x240 - 14x320 -
Rs. 23,665 (MT 1-2006A)
Grade II Monthly Rs. 14,425 -10x145 - 16,045
11x170 - 6x240 - 14x320 -
Rs. 23,665 (MT 1-2006A)
Grade I Monthly Rs. 14,425 -10x145 - 17,985
11x170 - 6x240 - 14x320 -
Rs. 23,665 (MT 1-2006A)
4. This post is permanent and pensionable. Appointment is
subject to 03 year’s probation period and selected candidates should
serve in head office only.
5. Qualifications :
5.1 Educational Qualifications .– Should have passed the
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (06) subjects with at
least 2 credits in not more than two sittings ; and
5.2 Professional Qualifications .– Should have followed a
course in level NVQ 5 in electronic or mechanical science
from a government recognized technical college.
5.3 Experience.– Being a departmental employee who has
obtained 06 years' experience in relevant field.
5.4 Physical Fitness :
(i) All candidates should be physically and mentally fit
adequate to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to carry
out duties in the post.
5.5 Other .– Should have completed all the necessary
qualifications for recruitment to the post in all respect as
at the date mentioned the notice calling for application.
Note.– It is compulsory that all applicants should complete
necessary qualifications to the post on or before the closing
date of application.
6. Furnishing false Information.– In filling these vacancies, if a
candidate is found not to have required qualifications, his/her
candidature can be cancelled before the examination or duration of
the examination, or after the examination or at any time. If any of the
particulars furnished by a candidate are found to be false within his/
her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact
he/she will be liable to dismissal from the public service.
7. Examination Procedure.– The examination is of written test
consisting of two subjects. This examination will be conducted in
Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. The medium applied for will
not be allowed to change subsequently.
Maximum Minimum percentage Time
marks of marks required
obtainable for a pass
(i) Intelligent Test 100 40% 1 hour
(ii) Technical Paper 100 40% 2 hours
(Questions of technical knoweldge relevant to the post are
included)
8. Selection procedure :
8.1 Number of candidates equal to the number to be filled, of the
candidates who obtained the highest marks of a written
examination conducted by the Surveyor General, will be
recruited in the order of merits.
8.2 An interview will be held to ascertain whether the
qualifications have been fulfilled and no marks will be given.
9. Preparation and Submission of Application :
(a) The application should be prepared by the applicant himself
using both sides of paper size 21x29 (A4) as per the specimen
application appearing at the end of this notice. No 01-05

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2565
should be on page 01, No.06-09.1 on page 02, No. 09.2-12
on page 03, No. 13-15 shold be on page 04 of the application.
(b) Candidates should forward their applications through their
Heads of the institutions.
(c) Applications should be in the language in which the candidate
is eligible to sit the examination.
(d) Candidates should bear consequences of improper filling of
application. It would be useful to retain a photocopy of the
application. It is responsibility of the candidate to find out
whether the application complies with the application
specified in the notice. If not application can be rejected.
09.1 The envelope containing the application, should be clearly
marked, "Survey Instrument Technician - Limited
Competitive Examination" on the top left hand corner.
10. Examination fee.– Examination fee is Rs. 300. This fee should
be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor General Office in No. 150,
Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any of district survey office or at the
institute of surveying and mapping - Diyathalawa. The receipt should
be pasted in the relevant cage in the application form. (It is advisable
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant). The fee is
not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and cheques
will not be accepted. Applications without receipts will be rejected.
11. Submission of application. – Completed application should
be sent by registered post to reach to the following address on or
before 18th January 2016 :
Surveyor General
Survey Department,
P. O. 506,
Colombo.
12. Appearing for the Examination.– Every candidate should hand
over their admission card to the supervisor of the examination centre.
A candidate who fails to hand over his admission card will not be
permitted to sit the examination. The candidate should sit the
examination at the examination hall assigned to him.
13. Identity of candidate.– Candidates should prove their Identity
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
paper they sit. Any of the following documents will be accepted for
this purpose :
(i) The valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons.
(ii) The valid passport.
14. Any matter not specified here will be determined by the
Surveyor General.
P. M. P. UDAYAKANTHA,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department,
Colombo 05,
26th November, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
L
IMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE
POST OF SURVEY INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN WHICH REMAINS
V ACANT IN THE SURVEY DEPARTMENT
For office use only
01. Medium of Examination :
(Sinhala - S,  Tamil - T,  English - E)
Indicate the letter in given cage)
02. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––––.
02. (i) Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
In Sinhala :–––––––––––––.
In English :–––––––––––––.
03. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Date :––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––,  Year :–––––––––––.
04.1 Age as at closing date of application :
Days :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––,  Years :––––––––.
05. Gender :
(Male – M Female – F)
06. Permanent Address (In legible letters) :–––––––––––––.
06.1 Administrative District to which address belong (See
Schedule 01)
District No.     Name of the District
06.2 Date from which the applicant is resident in the District :
–––––––––––––.
07. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
07.1 Experience :–––––––––––––.
08. 08.1 The post for which recruitment was made in the
departmental service and the date :–––––––––––––.
08.2 Service No. :–––––––––––––.
08.3 Whether confirmed in that post :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2566
08.4 Whether the officers has been subject to disciplinary
punishment :–––––––––––––.
08.4.1 If the answer "yes"
Give details :–––––––––––––.
08.5 In case of change of post after the original appointment,
mention particulars :
Post Date of appointment Confirmation in the
post
09. Educational Qualifications :
09.1 Details of G. C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
1st attempt
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
09.2 Details of G . C. E. Ordinary Level Examination :
2nd attempt
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
10. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
11. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence :
Yes N o
11.1 If yes give details :–––––––––––––.
12. Details of receipt which the examination fees paid :
(i) Office at which the payment made :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Reeipt No. and date :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :
Affix the receipt firmly here
13. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I, declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to
be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the appointment
and if it is found after the appointment, I would be liable to
dismissal from the service.
(c) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of Rs. ..........
has been pasted in relevant cage.
(d) Further, I declare that I agree to comply with the rules and
regulations laid down by the Surveyor General in respect
of the examination.
(e) I shall not subsequently change any of the particulars
mentioned here.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
14. Certification of signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who is submitting
the application is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of attester.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
15. Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
Personal file of the officer was examined. I certify that the
information furnished by him under head 8 and 9 is correct. If selected
to the post this officer can be/cannot be released from the post he
holds at present.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Branch.
Date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2567
SCHEDULE 01
This Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts to which
address belong on No. 06.1 of the application.
Town/District Name Town/District No.
1. Colombo 01
2. Gampaha 02
3. Kalutara 03
4. Kandy 04
5. Matale 05
6. Nuwara Eliya 06
7. Galle 07
8. Matara 08
9. Hambanthota 09
10. Kurunegala 10
11. Puttalam 11
12. Anuradapura 12
13. Polonnaruwa 13
14. Badulla 14
15. Monaragala 15
16. Rathnapura 16
17. Kegalle 17
18. Ampara 18
19. Batticaloa 19
20. Trincomalee 20
21. Jaffna 21
22. V avuniya 22
12–525/1
––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  LANDS
Survey Department
OPEN Competitive examination held for recruitment to the post of
Survey Instrument Technician which remain vacant in the Survey
Department.
01. Number of Vacancies : 07.
02. Nature of the Post.– Maintenance and Services of instruments
and tools pertaining to surveying.
03. 1. Question papers to be answered :
Subjects Time Maximum marks Pass marks
Intelligent test 01 hour 100% 40%
Technical paper 01 hour 100% 40%
2. Selections will be made on the total marks obtained for the
question papers.
04. Recruitment Grade.– Grade III in post of Survey Instrument
Technician.
05. Condition of engagement in the service. – This post is
permanent and pensionable, contributions should be paid to the
Widows and Orphans/Widowers and Orphans Pension Fund.
Appointment is subject to 3 year probation period and selected
candidates should prepare to serve only in the head office and subject
to general conditions applicable to appointment to the public service
specified at the beginning of this Gazette notification.
06. Salary Scale.– MT 1-2006-A - Rs. 14,425 -10x145 - 11x170
- 6x240 - 14x320 - Rs. 23,665.
Initial salary step applicable to the grade system :
Grade Initial Salary step Initial Salary Scale
III Step 01 Rs. 14,425
II Step 12 Rs. 16,045
I Step 23 Rs. 17,985
07. Age limit.– The minimum age should be 18 years and maximum
age should be 35 years.
08. Educational Qualifications .– Should have passed the
G . C. E.(O/L) examination in six subjects in one sitting with credit
passes for :
1. Sinhala/Tamil/English Language ;
2.Mathematics and other two subjects ; and
Should have followed one yearcourse in NVQ 05 level on
electronics or mechanics in a government recognized technical college.
09. Method of recruitment to the service .– Selection for the
appointments will be made on the results of written examination out
of the candidates who have fulfilled the qualifications, on the number
of vacancies.
10. It is compulsory that all applicants should complete necessary
qualifications tothe post before the closing date of application.
11. Applications and other particulars :
(a) (i) The application should be prepared by the applicant
himself using 21x29cm (A4) paper as per the specimen
application appearing at the end of this notice.Item
No. 01-08 should be on page 01,No.09-13on page 2,
and No.14-16 should be on page 3.The receipt obtained
for the payment of examination should be pasted below
that and"Post of Survey instrument technician"should
be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application. Completed

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2568
applications should be sent by registered post to reach
to the address of “Survey General,Survey Department,
Kirula Road, Narahenpita” on or before 18th January
2016 (Should not be sent to the private name or any
other address).
(ii) Applications, which are incomplete belated and those,
do not fulfilled required qualifications will be rejected.
(iii) For the application loss in the post shall not be held
responsible.
(iv) Examination fees will not be refundable for whatever
reason.
(v) Receipt of applications will not be acknoweldged.
(b) The signature of the applicant in the application should
be certified by a principal of a government school or
justice of peace or Commissioner of Oaths or Attorney-
at-law or Commissioned Officer in the army or an office
in police service hold a Gazette post or an officer who
hold a permanent post in public service in professional
or senior level in terms of grading of public service Circular
No. 06/2006.
12. The following documents should be forwarded when called
for :
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) Educational Certificates,
(iii) Receipt Grama Niladhari Certificate,
(iv) Two Character Certificates
N.B.– Certified copies of educational, professional and birth
certificate should be forwarded with the application.
13. Applicants those who are already in the government service
should forward their applications through their heads of the
Departments.
14. Examination fee is Rs.800.The receipt obtained making the
payment of examination fee to any district survey office or cashier
inhead office should be pasted in relevant place of the application.
Money order or cheques will not be accepted.
15. Action will be taken to hold the examination in the head office
or any other suitable centre. The date of examination will be noticed
to the applicants.
16. Admission to the examination.– Admission cards are sent by
post to all those who have forwarded applications and fulfilled basic
qualifications, to the address mentioned in their application.
Candidates who sit for the eamination should hand over their admission
card to the supervisor of the examination centre. A candidate who
fails to hand over this admission card will not be permitted to sit the
examination at the examination. The candidate should sit the
examination at the examination hall assigned to him.
Note.– Issuing of admission card shall not be deemed as the
applicant possesses qualifications to the post or to sit the
examination.
17. Identity of candidate.– Candidates should prove their idetity
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. Any of
the following documents will be accepted for this purpose.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons.
(b) The valid postal identity card issued by the Post Master
General.
(c) A valid passport.
18. Punishment for furnishing false information.– If a candidate
is found not to have required qualification, his/her. Candidature can
be cancelled before the eamination or duratio of the examination or
after the examination or at any time. If any of the particulars furnished
by a candidate are found to be false within his/her knowledge or if he/
she has willfully suppressed any material fact he/she will be liable to
dismissal from the public service.
19. Medium of language.– This examination will be held in Sinhala,
Tamil and English medium. Candidates may present themselves for
examination in the medium preferred. The medium applied for will
not be allowed to change subsequently.
20. Matters not covered by the conditions will be determined by
the Surveyor General.
P. M. P . U
DAYAKANTHA,
Surveyor General.
Survey Department,
Colombo 05,
26th November, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR THE POST OF SURVEY INSTRUMENT
TECHNICIAN IN SURVEY DEPARTMENT
(For office use only)
(Indicate the code in the relevant cage)
01. 1. Name with initials :
(i) In SInhala :–––––––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––––––.
2. Names denoted by intiaisl (in legible letters) :
(i) In SInhala :–––––––––––––.
(ii) In English :–––––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent Address (In legible letters) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Administrative district to which address belong :––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'18
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.12.2015
2569
03. Gender :
(Male - M Female - F)
04. Medium of examination :
(Sinhala - S,  Tamil - T,  English - E)
05. Race :
(Sinhala - 1,  Sri Lankan Tamil - 2, Muslim - 3,
Indian Tamil - 4, Burger - 5, Male - 6,  Other - 7)
06. (i) Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Date from which the applicant is resident in the district :
–––––––––––––.
07. Citizenship :
By descent
By registration
08. National Identity Card No. :
09. (i) Date of Birth :
Date :–––––––––,  Month :––––––––,  Year :–––––––––.
(ii) Age as at closing date of application :
Days :––––––––, Months :––––––––,  Years :–––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
1st attempt
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
(ii) G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
2nd attempt
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
15
26
37
48
11. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence :
Yes N o
If yes give details :–––––––––––––.
13. Survey office at which the, payment made :–––––––––––––.
Reeipt No. :–––––––––––––.
Date, the paymet made :–––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt firmly here
14. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to
be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the appointment
and if it is found after the appointment, I would be liable to
dismissal from the service.
(c) I agree to comply with the regulations of this examination.
(d) The cash receipt obtained for the payment of ................
has been pasted in relevant place.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
15. Certification of signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who is submitting
the application is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of attester.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
16. Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
If selected, this officer can be/cannot be released.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
12–525/2
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.