

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 111]
————————
Presented by the  Hon. Neranjan Wickremasinghe, M.P. for
Kurunegala District on 21st June, 2011
(Published in the Gazette on June 06, 2011)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
2-2d
2-
MADAHAPOLA SRI RATNAPALARAMAYA
RELIGIOUS AND BUDDHIST EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
2—PL 006027— 850  (05/2011)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious
and Buddhist Educational Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
2—PL 006101—  850 (06/2011)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MADAHAPOLA SRI RATNAPALARAMAYA
RELIGIOUS  AND  B UDDHIST  E DUCATIONAL  D EVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a society called and known as the “Madahapola
Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and Buddhist Educational
Development Foundation”, has heretofore been formed at
Madahapola for the purpose of effectually carrying out its
objects and transacting all matters connected with the said
foundation according to the rules agreed to by the members.
AND WHEREAS the said society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
as acceding to this request will be for the public interest.
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Madahapola Sri
Ratnapalaramaya Religious and Buddhist Educational
Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2011.
2. From and after the commencement of this Act, such
and so many persons as now are members of the Madahapola
Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and Buddhist Educational
Foundation (hereinafter referred to as “the Foundation”) and
such other persons as shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the corporation hereby constituted, shall be, and become
a body corporate with perpetual succession under the name
and style of the “Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya
Religious and Buddhist Educational Development
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as “The Corporation”)
and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts with full
power and authority to have and use a common seal, and
alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of
Madahapola
Sri
Ratnapalaramaya
Religious and
Buddhist
Educational
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious
and Buddhist Educational Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
3. The general objects for which Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
(a) protect and nourish Buddhism, safeguard the rights
of Buddhists, Protect the spiritual, educational,
cultural and social rights of Buddhists;
(b) bring about moral and economic progress of the
society through quantitative and qualitative
development of Buddhist Bhikkus in historical
Yapahuwa area;
(c) draw advisory and financial support from
Centers of Bhikku Organizations, Government
Institutions, Non-Governmental Organizations,
Sasana Development Fund of the Dalada Maligawa,
the Sri Siddartha Saranankara Welfare Foundation
of Malwathu Viharaya and foreign embassies;
(d) lay the foundation for a long term program for
religious development by establishing a fund and
incorporating it;
(e) construct a building complex with residential
facilities for about 100 Bhikkus, endowed with
capabilities for the development of religious
activities, modern communication skills and
proficiency in languages;
(f) drawing the attention of relevant authorities to the
need to pave the way for a life style based on
righteous employment in a hydraulic civilization;
(g) provide facilities for the temples to serve the public
based on the concept ‘from temple to the people
rather than from people to the temple’;
(h) take necessary steps to lead the youth on righteous
paths by moving them away from misdirected paths;
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious
and Buddhist Educational Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.
(i) take action to eradicate the addiction to drugs which
is a social menace;
(j) motivate the people to commence pre-schools in
temple premises and implement programs to
motivate children to lead a religious life;
(k) take necessary steps to commence Damma Schools
in temples where Damma Schools are not
conducted;
4. Subject to provisions of this Act and any other written
law the corporation shall have the power to do, perform and
execute all such acts, matters and things whatsoever, as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including
power to open, operate and close bank accounts, borrow or
raise moneys with or without security, to accept and or
collect grants and donations, to invest the corporations funds
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required or suitable for promotion and carrying out all of or
any one of the objects of the Corporation.
5. The affairs of the corporation shall be managed by a
Board of Management selected subject to and in accordance
with the regulations of the Board.
6. The officers who held office in the Madahapola Sri
Ratnapalaramaya Religious and Buddhist Educational
Development Foundation on the day preceding the date of
the commencement of this Act shall continue to hold office
in the Corporation under the regulations of this Act and the
persons who were members on that date will continue to be
members subject to the regulations of this Corporation.
7. It shall be lawful for Corporation from time to time at
any general meeting by majority of votes of not less than
two thirds of the members present and voting to make such
Management
of the
activities of
the
Corporation.
Permission
for the
officers who
served the
Corporation
before
incorporation
to continue
in office
after
incorporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious
and Buddhist Educational Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
rules as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
or any other written law for the purpose of admission,
resignation and expulsion of members, procedure to be
observed in the transaction of the business of the Corporation
and general administration or in pursuit of the objects of
Corporation by the representatives, employees or the
Directorate.
Rules so made can be amended or rescinded in the same
manner they were made at a similar meeting.
8. The members of the corporation shall be subjected to
the rules of the Corporation.
9. The corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may  become vested in by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift
and testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
the Corporation and subject to rules of this Act and
provisions of the Corporation with full power to mortgage,
sell, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. All debts and liabilities of the foundation existing
on the day preceding the day of commencement of the Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to
the Corporations on that day, shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
11.     The Seal of the  Corporation shall  not  be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of two
member of the Board of Management who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
Members of
the
Corporation
to be
subjected to
rules of the
corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property.
Debts
payable by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious
and Buddhist Educational Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
12. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified Auditor.
(3) In this section, “qualified Auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of  Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
13. If upon dissolution of the Corporation, there remains
any property whatsoever, after the satisfaction of all debts
and liabilities, such property shall not be distributed among
the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other institution having objects similar
to those of the Corporation, and which is or are by its rules
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such institution or institutions may be
determined by the members of the Committee of Management
on or before the dissolution of the Corporation.
14. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice the
rights of the Republic or any body politic or corporate or
any other person except the rights of those mentioned in
this Act and those claiming rights from them or through
them or under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Savings of
the rights of
the Republic
and others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of any
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Audit and
accounts.
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious
and Buddhist Educational Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .