

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
803
803
wxl 1"655 - 2010 uehs ui 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'05'21
No. 1,655 – FRIDAY , MAY 21, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 806
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 824
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th May, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th May,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in Jan.-March 2007, has been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
804
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
805
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
806
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
GALLE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages, in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th June, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
30th April, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post Address to which
Secretary’s for which applications should
Division applications are called be sent
Galle Balapitiya Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional
Welithara Division in Galle District Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Galle.
05-415
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE  AND  LAW  REFORMS
Post of Labour Tribunal Interpreter
(Sinhala/Tamil) and (Sinhala/English)
THE Gazette notification bearing No. 1,630 dated 27th November, 2009 published in respect of the recruitment to the Post of Interpreter
(Sinhala/Tamil) and (Sinhala/English) in the Labour Tribunals under the Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms is hereby cancelled  and
fresh applications are called from citizens of Sri Lanka with undermentioned qualifications for the above post.
02. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Passed the Senior School Certificate Examination of Ceylon or G . C. E. (O/L) or N. C. G. E. Examination in six subjects
including Mathematics in not more than two sittings with credit passes in four subjects including the two language
subjects relating to translation.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
807
03. Other Qualifications :
(a) (i) Applicants should have the ability to speak clearly and accurately in one other language (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in
addition to the medium in which the applicants have passed the examination in terms of which they have acquired
the necessary qualifications.
(ii) The selected candidate should have the ability to interpret from one language (Sinhala/Tamil/English) to one or more
other language/languages.
04. Age Limit.– Not less than 18 years and more than 45 years as at the date on which applications close. (The maximum age
limit will not apply to persons already in Pubilc Service/Provincial Public Service).
05. Salary Scale.– MN 1 -2006(A(iv) Step 06 Rs. 13,845 -5x 145- 11 x 170 - 10x 240-10x 320 - Rs. 22,040 per month.
06. Method of Recruitment.– Candidates who have fulfilled the above qualifications in terms of the PA Circular No. 15/90 will
be recruited on merit on the results of a competitive examination consisting of written and oral examinations to be held by the  Secretary
to the Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms.
(a) Written Examination.– A two hour question paper designed to assess the candidate's ability to translate - Total marks - 100
(b)Oral Examination :
(i) Applicants who obtain highest marks at the written examination will be called for an oral examination depending on
the number of existing vacancies at the ratio of 1:5. Maximum marks - 50.
(ii) The candidate's ability to interpret from one language to one or more other language/languages will be assessed at the
oral examination.
07. Terms of Engagement :
(i) This post is permanent. It is pensionable. Contribution should be made to the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
(ii) Efficiency Bar Examinations applicable to this post will be held once a year by the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice.
08. Conditions of Service .– Sections 10 to 12 in Chapter II of the Establishments Code will apply.
09. Applications prepared according to the specimen appearing at the end of this notification and should be sent under
registered cover to reach the following address on or before 10.06.2010. The words "Post of Labour Tribunal Interpreter" should  be
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application. Applicants who are already in Public Service/Pr ovincial
Pubilc Service should forward their applications through the Heads of their respective Departments/Institutions.
The Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms,
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
10. Examination Fees. – Every applicant should pay an examination fee of Rs. 100 by a money order drawn in favour of the
Secretary, Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms and encashable from any post office. THe money order should be sent along with t he
application. The examination fees paid will not be refunded under any circumstances.
11. The application should be complete in all respects. Late applications will be rejected without any notice and complaints
relating to the loss of any application and connected documents in the post will not be entertained.
12. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before selection and to dismissal if discovered after selection.
The appropriate authority to decide on any matter not contained herein, shall be the Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and
Law Reforms.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms.
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms,
Colombo 12.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
808
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND LAW REFORMS
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF LABOUR TRIBUNAL INTERPRETER
(SINHALA/TAMIL) AND (SINHALA/ENGLISH)
No. :––––––––––––.
(For office use only)
01. Full name : In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––––.
In English :––––––––––––.
02. Name with initials : In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––––.
In English :––––––––––––.
03. Residential address In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––––.
In English :––––––––––––.
04. Office address :––––––––––––.
05. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
06. N. I. C. No. :––––––––––––.
07. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
08. Age on 10.06.2010 :
Years :––––––––––––, Months :––––––––––––, Days :––––––––––––.
09. Whether male/female :––––––––––––.
10. Citizenship :––––––––––––.
11. Medium of education :––––––––––––.
12. The post applied for Interpreter (Sinhala/Tamil) or (Sinhala/English) :––––––––––––.
13. Educational qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subjects Pass level Subjects Pass level
14. Other qualifications :––––––––––––.
15. I hereby certify that the particulars given by me in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any part iculars,
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, if detected before selection and to dismissal without
compensation, if detected after appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
REPORT OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT IF THE APPLICANT IS IN PUBLIC SERVICE
Part "B"
(The recommendation of the Head of Department)
It is certified that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................... who is submitting this application is serving in this D epartment/
Ministry/Provincial Council as a .................................. and that the particulars given above are correct and his/he r work, attendance and
conduct are satisfactory. Also, it is informed that in the event of his/her being selected for the above post, he/she can be/cannot be released
from service.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature and the official seal of the
Head of the Department/Authorized Officer.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
05–416

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
809
MINISTRY  OF  IRRIGATION  AND  WATER  RESOURCES  MANAGEMENT
Irrigation  Department
ENGINEERING ASSISTANT'S SERVICE IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT,
POST OF ENGINEERING ASSISTANT, CLASS II GRADE II
APPLICATIONS are invited for filling Posts of Engineering Assistants ; Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Engineering Assistant's Service
of the Irrigation Department.
Application must be addressed to the Director General of Irrigation, Department of Irrigation, No. 230, Bauddaloka Mawatha,
Colombo 07 and send under registered cover to reach me on or before 10.06.2010.
The words "Application for the Post of Engineering Assistant, Class II Grade II, Irrigation Department Engineering Assistant
Service" must be written on the left hand top corner of the envelope.
Any applications received after this date will be rejected.
2. Salary Scale.– The monthly consolidated salary after successful completion of the training period is Rs. 15,005- 4x180 -
14 x 240- Rs. 19,085 (This includes an Efficiency Bar Examination prior to annual salary step of Rs. 16,205).
3. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(a) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should not be less than 18 years or more than 30 years of age on 10.06.2010 (The upper age limit will not apply to
employees in Provincial and State Service) ;
(c) Should have good conduct ;
(d) The candidate should be in good health and will have to undergo medical test conducted by a Government Medical
Officer to ascertain whether the candidate is physically fit to serve in any part of the country.
(e) The candidate should possess any one of the educational qualifications as per (I) or (II) given below :
(i) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects in not more than two sittings with Credit passes for
Language, Mathematics, English Language, Science and one other subject ; and
Pass in G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination in one sitting with ordinary passes in four subjects inclusive of
Physics and Pure Mathematics ; or
According to the new syllabus should have passed G . C. E. (Advanced Level) in three subjects in one sitting
including Combined Mathematics and Physics.
(ii) Should have obtained the certificate of National Diploma in Technology (Civil Engineering) from the University of
Moratuwa or the Hardy Technical College at Ampara, together with one year's practical (field) training and should
have passed the relevant examination with the subject of Surveying and Leveling and Irrigation Engineering and
obtained relevant certificates.
Note.– Those who have completed the course and are not in possession of the certificate could also apply, but will
be required to produce same at the interview.
4. Method of Recruitment :
(a) Recruitment will be made in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 15/90 and according to the provisions of the
Establishment Code.
(b) (i) The Apprentices recruited with qualification under Section 3. e. (I) should follow a fulltime residential training
course conduct by the Department of Irrigation on the Departmental Training Institute at Galgamuwa for a period
of two years. The Apprentices who pass the relevant examinations inclusive of the final examination will be
attached to the field for one year for practical training. After the completion of the field training to the satisfaction
of the Director General of Irrigation, a practical test will be held and those who pass are entitled to receive the
certificate of Diploma in Irrigation Engineering awarded by the training Institute of the Department of Irrigation.
(ii) Irrigation Apprentices who fail the relevant examination shall be allowed to follow the training extend by a period
not more than six months at the discretion of the Director General of Irrigation, if the failure is not for the reasons
of negligence of duties, non interest or weak attendance. The Apprentices who fail shall pass all relevant examinations

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
810
including the final examination, which will be held at the end of the extended period of training. The Apprentices
who fail even this examination shall have their service terminated.
(iii) It is desired that the Apprentices shall have a record of satisfactory training by attending at least 80% of the
lectures during the period of training. In the event of any Apprentices who does not have the required minimum
attendance and a satisfactory record of training, will not be permitted to sit the relevant examination and shall have
the training terminated as well.
(iv) The Apprentices who will be recruited on the educational qualifications as per Section 3. e (II) should pass a
practical test as required by the Department of Irrigation at the end of the six month training which include lectures
and practical training.
(v) If these Apprentices have successfully completed one-year field training at the Department of Irrigation itself, after
recrutiment they will be exempted from the requirement of six months training and they all should pass the
practical test.
(c) All the lectures and training courses will be conducted in English medium.
(d) Those who complete the training successfully will be appointed to Class II Grade II Engineering Assistants Service of the
Irrigation Department.
5. Service Conditions :
(a) These posts are permanent. Selected applicants should be contributed to contributory pension scheme. Those who are
holding pensionable posts at present are entitle for pensions.
(b) Applicants firstly, will be recruited as Irrigation Apprentices.
(c) Allowance paid for Irrigation Apprentices during the period of training - during the entire period of training the following
allowances shall be paid to Irrigation Apprentices recruited on qualificaiton as per Section 3. e.(I).
During the first year Rs. 12,920 per month ;
During the second year Rs. 13,040 per month ;
During the third year Rs. 13,160 per month.
Apprentices recruited with qualification indicated as Section 3. e.(II) shall be paid an allowance of Rs. 13,160 per month
during their six months training period.
This allowances may continue to be paid during the extend period of training with approval of the Director General of
Irrigation and with no entitlement for other privileges or rights.
(d) Irrigation Apprentices are subject to provisions of the Establishment Code and other regulations issued from time to time
by the Government. They shall not be entitle for leave or holiday railway warrants during the period of training.
(e) The Apprentices after completion of the period of Apprenticeship shall be appointed to Class II Grade II Engineering
Assistants and subject to three years probations period from the date of formal appointment.
(f) Provisions from Section 10 to 12, Paragraph II of the Establishment Code shall be applicable to this service.
(g) Selected candidates should be required to sign an agreement undertaking, to serve compulsory period of 05 years as
Engineering Assistants. If the Officer fails to discharge the period of compulsory under the agreement, he/she should pay
the full amount mentioned in the agreement to the Government.
6. Applicants should send copies of the following certificates along with their applications :
(a) Technical certificates obtained ;
(b) G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Certificate ;
(c) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Certificate ;
(d) Birth Certificate issued by the Registrar General ;
(e) Three recent character certificates (One should be from the Principal of the last school attended and another from the
Gramasevaka of the permanent living area).
Note.– The copies of the above certificates will not be returned.
7. Employees of Provincial and State Services, should send their applications through the Head of their Department.
8. Applicants should present themselves for a written examination to be held in Colombo, at their own expense.
9. Should be prepared to serve in any part of the country any time as and when their services are required. The candidates should
note that the work sites at the department is normally situated in remote areas with less transport and lodging facilities. Spe cially, the
selected candidates will be posted to one of the following stations and has to work there at least for five years. Those who are not willing

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
811
to do so, need not apply. Stations are Irrigation Divisional Offices such as Ampara, Potuwil, Kalmunai, Akkarapattu, Padaviya,
Rajanganaya, Huruluwewa, Mapakada, Badulla, Kandeketiya, Nawakiri, Rugam, Tissa, Weeraketiya, Hambantota, Wellawaya, Bibile,
Monaragala, Polonnaruwa, Kaudulla, Elahera, Inginimitiya, Puttalama, Muthtur, Kantale, Gomarankadawala, Murunkan, Vavunia and
Project Offices.
10. If any false information given in the application is revealed before recruitment the Candidature is liable for cancellation .
Their service will be terminated, if false information is revealed after recruitment. Legal action for providing mis information also can be
taken against such candidates.
11. Attention is drawn for rules and reulgations for appointments to Government Posts wide Part I, Para II(A) of the Sri Lanka
Government Gazette.
Eng. H. P. S. S
OMASIRI,
Director General of Irrigation.
Irrigation Department,
No. 230, Bauddhaloka Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
07th May, 2010.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
IRRIGATION DEP ARTMENT
Engineering Assistant's Service Irrigation Department, Posts of Engineering Assistant Class II Grade II
01. ( a) Full Name :––––––––––.
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
02. Sex :––––––––––.
03. ( a) Postal Address :––––––––––.
(b) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(c) Telephone Number :
Residence :––––––––––. Mobile :––––––––––.
(d) E-mail Address :––––––––––.
04. Residential District :––––––––––.
05. Divisional Secretary's Division :––––––––––.
06. Date of birth (attach a copy of birth certificate) :
(a) Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
(b) Place of birth :––––––––––.
(c) Age on 10.06.2010 :
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
07. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
08. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? :––––––––––. Yes/No
Race :
Sinhala Moor
Sri Lankan Tamil Other
Indian Tamil
09. Educational qualifications (Attach copies of certificate) :
9.1 G . C. E. (O/L) :
1st sitting :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
812
2nd sitting (if relevant) :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.2 G. C. E. (A/L) :
Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1. Mathematics
2. Physics
3.
4.
10. Technical qualifications (Annex copies of certificates) :––––––––––.
(Please give the name of the course and technical college)
11. If you have served in a Government Department or State Corporation previously, indicate why you have resigned/left service/b een
discontinued/been dismissed :––––––––––.
12. If employed at present, give details :
(a) Post :––––––––––.
(b) Institution :––––––––––.
(c) Date of Appointment :––––––––––.
(d) Nature of Appointment :––––––––––.
13. I hereby declare on my honour that the above particulars are true and correct. I am also aware that if false or incorrect in formation is
contained in the above applications it is a disqualification for selection and if it is revealed after recruitment it constitut es adequate
cause for termination of employment without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Recommendation of Head of Department/(for applicant in Government Department and Provincial Council only)
I hereby certify that .................................. is an employee of this Department/Institution and his/her work and con duct is
satisfactory and conforms to the requirements and conditions set out for application for this post. He/She could be/could not b e released
if selected.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Institution/Authorized Officer,
Official Stamp.
Name :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
05–563

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
813
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
Airmen/AirWomen Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Airmen/Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force in the trades given below :-
1. Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :–
(a)  Aeronautical Engineering Trades :
(1) Aero Engine Mechanic (Male/Female)
(2) Air Frame Mechanic (Male/Female)
(3) Aero Electrical Instrument Mechanic (Male/Female)
(4) Safety Equipment Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . E. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages, Mathematics and
Science. A credit pass for mathematics/Science is essential.
(b) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Trades :
(1) Computer Technician (Male)
(2) Air Communicator (Male)
(3) Telephonist (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages.
(c) General Engineering Trades :
(1) Armament Mechanic (Male)
(2) Motor Transport Mechanic (Male)
(3) Air Photographer (Male)
(4) General Mechanic (Male)
(5) Air Craft Welder Assistant (Male)
(6) Surface Assistant (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English Languages, Mathematics and
Science. A credit pass for Mathematics/Science will be an added qualification.
(7) Operator Motor Transport (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language. Possession of a valid driving license
is essential.
(d) Civil Engineering Trades :
(1) Electrician Works (Male)
(2) Mechanical Technician (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language. An ordinary pass in English language
will be and added qualification.
(e) Medical Trade
(1) Nursing Assistants (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in English Language and credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil language,
Mathematics, Science and one other subject. Having three passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in the streams
of Biology/Combined Mathematics/Chemistry/Physics/Agriculture Science in one sitting is a qualification to
follow advance training coming under the purview of the Ministry of Health.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
814
(f) Dental Trade
(1) Dental Assistants (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in English Language and credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil language,
Mathematics, Science and one other subject. Having three passes at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the streams
of Biology/Combined Mathematics/Chemistry/Physics/Agriculture Science in one sitting is a qualification to
follow advance training coming under the purview of the Ministry of Health.
(g) Logistic Trades
(1) Logistics Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language and a credit in Mathematics/Science/
Business and Accounting Studies.
(2) Mess Stewards (Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language.
(h) Administrative Trades
(1) Administrative Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages and a credit in
Mathematics/Science/Business and Accounting Studies.
(2) Accounts Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages and a credit in
Mathematics/Business and Accounting Studies.
(j) Operations Trades
(1) Operations Air (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a credit in English language.
(2) Fire Fighter (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages.
(3) Musician (Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language. Outstanding competencies in Music
and singing will be a special qualification at selection.
(4) Physical Trainer (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language. Outstanding competencies in National
Level sports will be a special qualification at selection.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
815
(5) Dog Handler (Male)
(6) Operations Ground (Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language.
(k) Police Trade
(1) Police (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages.
2. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfil the following General Conditions for enlistment to the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force
in addition to above qualifications :–
(a) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Age : Male - Not less than 18 years and not more than 23 years as at 20th July, 2010 ;
Female - Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years as at 20th July, 2010 ;
(c) Height : Male - 5 feet 5 inches and above ;
Female - 5 feet 3 inches and above ;
(d) Weight : BMI = Weight (kg) < 25
Height (m)2
(e) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(f) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without spectacles)
(g) Civil Status :  Candidates must be unmarried. (Airmen/Airwomen are not allowed to marry until the completion of
two years from the date of enlistment and until one year after the completion of the Basic Trade Training Course and
which ever is later).
3. Candidates who do not posses the required educational qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 and 02 will
be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height, weigh  and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height, weigh and vision
is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
5. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with effect from
the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the selected trades accordingly. They will be required to perform
combat duties and any type of duty, day and night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or
abroad.
6. Terms of Engagement.– Selected candidates will be enlisted to the Third Class in the rank of Aircraftsman/Aircraftswoman
in the Regular Air Force and shall be required to serve for 12 years in which eight years will have to be served continuously whilst serving
a further 04 years in the Regular Air Force (Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen/Airwomen to  extend
for further service on completion of eight years of service.
7. Official Language Requirements.– The selected candidates must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government
of Sri Lanka.
8. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Pay rate.– The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen/Airwomen shall be as follows :–
Aircraftsman/Aircraftswoman - Rs. 168,000 - 6 x 1,440 - 21 x 1,800 - Rs. 214,440 per annum.
Leading Aircraftsman/Aircraftswoman - Rs. 172,320 - 3 x 1,440 - 24 x 1,800 - Rs. 219,840 per annum.
Corporal - Rs. 176,640 - 1 x 1,800 - 17 x 2,520 - Rs. 221,280 per annum.
Sergeant - Rs. 180,240 - 3 x 1,800 - 9 x 2,520 - 15 x 3,480 - Rs. 260,520 per annum.
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 183,120 - 10 x  2,520 - 19 x 3,480 - Rs. 274,440 per annum.
Warrant Officer - Rs. 211,800 - 27 x 3,480 - Rs. 305,760 per annum.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
816
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated pay scale applicable to Airmen/Airwomen. Increments in
promotions will be based in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade efficiency and will be placed in the ap propriate
pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances - Rs. 5,250 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance - Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Enhanced allowance - Rs. 3,900 per month for those serving in operational areas.
(4) Enhanced allowance - Rs. 2,400 per month for all serving personnel (Rs. 80 will be paid for each working day).
(5) Incentive allowances.- After completion of 05 years service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(6) Ration allowance - Rs. 9,262.20 per month for living out Airmen/Airwomen. (Free messing for living - in Airmen/
Airwomen).
(7) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(8) Travelling.– Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (For Airmen/Airwomen, Husband/wife and Children
as applicable). One set of railway warrants per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in Airmen/
Airwomen.
(9) Disturbance allowance.– When proceeding on duty outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/unmarried).
(10) Qualification pay.– For personnel who have qualified in special courses or possess qualifications, which are of
special value to the Service. (Up to maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Good Conduct Badge pay .– Paid to personnel whose behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(12) Uniform upkeep allowances Rs. 170 per month.
(13) Re-engagement pay.– Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300 per month during the period of re-engagement.
(14) Medic al facilities.– Provided through Air Force expense for Airmen/Airwomen and their families.
(15) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T. B. buses for living-out Airmen/Airwomen within a radius of
30 miles (48 km).
(16) Rent allowance are payable to married Airmen/Airwomen not in occupation of Government married quarters
Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(17) Instructional pay : (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(18) Other allowance.– (Separation and overseas etc.) will be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(19) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended from
time to time. All Airmen/Airwomen are contributors to the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces)
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
9. Instructions to Applicants :-
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicants own hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages
of the application should be filled with much details as possible. Applications should be sent by registered post
addressed to "Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda" so as to reach there not later than
12.00 noon on 31st May, 2010. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked "Application for Airmen/
Airwomen" on the top left corner. Each applicant shuld apply to only one trade whilst participating for only one
interview. Applications received at Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda after closing date and time and not in
accordance with the requirements of this notification and not in registered post will not be considered.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interview or
when called upon to do so :–
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate issued for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications required.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
817
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training and or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the principal of the last school attended and
the other from the responsible person who has the know of the applicant for more than two years or from the
present employer (If employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and cadeting etc.
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when required to do so will not be considered.
(e) No original documents or copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
10. Interviews will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force Station Ekala. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be required
to appear for an interview at their own expense before an Air Force Recruiting Board. Such candidates will be informed individually of the
date, time and place.
11. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews, she is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who
do not have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of the accepted identification. However, no candidates wil l be
enlisted without the National Identity Card.
12. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board. Practical tests will be held for Physical Trainer and Musician Candidates. The required number of candidates per  trade
will be selected according to merit order.
13. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt
to influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
14. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after the selection.
15. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
W. D. R. M. J. G
OONETILEKE,
Air Chief Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR AIRMEN/AIRWOMEN IN THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
01. Full Name :––––––––––. (According to National Identity Card)
02. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
03. Applied Trade :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address :––––––––––.
05. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
06. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :––––––––––.
07. District :––––––––––.
08. Electorate :––––––––––.
09. G. S. Division :––––––––––.
10. Telephone Number :––––––––––.
11. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
12. Married or Single :––––––––––.
13. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :––––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
818
14. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
15. G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
16. Any special qualifications for the post (Eg.- Technical, Training and Experience etc.) :––––––––––.
17. Details of special achievements in sports :––––––––––.
18. Other achievements of note at school or with outside organizations :––––––––––.
19. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police give details :––––––––––.
20. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military Court ? If so, give details :––––––––––.
21. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
22. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :––––––––––.
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airmen/Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
05–495
PROMOTION OF  OFFICERS  IN  CLASS I  OF SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE  TO SPECIAL GRADE
APPLICATIONS are hereby called for promotion of officers to the posts which have fallen vacant in the approved cadre in Special Grade
indicated in Section 2, para 3 of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute.
02. As per provisions of the Sri Lanka Administrative service minute published in the gazette No. 1,419/3 dated 24.11.2005,
revised by the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,458/2 dated 14.08.2006, promotions to special grade in relation to the period from 01.01.2005
up to 31.12.2010 will be made under Section 17(c).
03. Method of promotions :
3.1 The number of officers not exceeding twice the number of vacancies to be filled, shall be interviewed by a board
consisting of three members appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers.
3.2 80% of the vacancies will be filled by promoting officers who have satisfied qualification under category 1 and 2
indicated under para 4.1 and 4.2 of the below, whilst 20% of the vacancies will be filled on seniority and merit by
promoting officers who have satisfied qualifications under category 3 and 4, indicated under 4.3 and 4.4 of the
paragraph 4.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
819
When the seniority and merit are taken in to consideration, the possession of qualification in 14(1)( d) or 19(1)(b)
of the service minute or the ability of the officer to satisfy prescribed qualifications within the interim period shall
be treated as the merit (Cabinet decision No CP/09/2906/317/105 dated 01.01.2010) Accordingly, officers who
have satisfied the required merit shall be promoted to special grade as the order of seniority existed in Class I of
SLAS/Grade, before the promotion.
3.3 Accordingly the seniority list in relation to each date of promotion shall be prepared as the order of seniority
existed before the promotion of officers, who have become qualified to be promoted on each of such dates.
3.4 Promotions to be made relevant to 01.01.2005 shall be made as per the Cabinet decision No. CP/09/1372/317/0108
dated 22.10.2009.
04. Qualifications.– Shall have satisfied qualifications in relation to any one of following 04 categories :
4.1 Category 1 : Qualifications to be satisfied by the officers who will become qualified under 17(c), (1) of the Service
Minute.
4.1.1 Shall have completed 5 years satisfactory service in Class/Grade 1 of Sri Lanka Administrative Service. (The
period of 5 years shall be calculated subject to the conditions in V:2:5:4, XII:16:9, XII:16:10 and XII:36:1:4
(i) and (ii) of the Establishment Code and conditions stipulated in disciplinary decisions).
4.1.2 Shall have satisfied, qualifications under 14(1)(d) or 19(1)(b) of the service Minute or should prove the ability
to complete that qualification by legal documents, within interim period.
4.1.3 Shall have earned all the salary increments, falling within the 5 years immediately preceding the date on which
the officer satisfies qualifications for promotion and shall have not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment
in same period of time. (Since it is mentioned in XII. 16.9 of Establishment code that the salary increments
earned under XII. 16.7 of Establishment code are not considered in granting promotions, it shall not be taken
in to consideration in this regard)
4.1.4 Shall have been recommended that the work and counduct of the officer during the period mentioned in 4:1:3
was satisfactory by relevant authority.
4.2 Category 2 : Qualifications to be satisfied by the officers who will qualified under 17(c)(1) note 1 of the Service
Minute.
4.2.1 Shall have been a granted a formal appointment to a Post in Special Grade on or before 14.11.2005.
4.2.2 Shall have satisfied qualifications indicated in 14(1)(d) of the service Minute on or before 14.11.2005.
4.2.3 Shall have satisfied requirements in 4.1.3 and 4.1.4 above.
4.3 Category 3 : Qualifications to be satisfied by the officers who will become qualified under 17(c) (ii) of the Service
Minute.
4.3.1 Shall have completed 10 years service in Class/Grade I of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
(The period of 10 years shall be calculated subject to the conditions in V:2:5:4, XII:16:9, XII 16:10 and
XII:36:1:4(i) and (ii) of the Establishment Code and conditions stipulated in disciplinary decisions)
4.3.2 Shall have completed qualifications under 19(1)(b) of the Service Minute of should prove the ability to
complete that qualification by legal documents, within interim period.
4.3.3 Shall have completed qualifications under 14(1)(b) of the Service Minute.
4.3.4 Shall have satisfied requirements in 4.1.3 and 4.1.4.
4.4 Category 4 : officers who will become qualified under note ii, 17(c)(ii) note ii of the Service Minute.
4.4.1 Shall have been appointed formally to a Post in Special Grade on or before 14.11.2005.
4.4.2 Shall have satisfied requirements in 4.3.1, 4.3.3 and 4.3.4.
Officers who had become qualified under above category 4 as at 01.01.2005 and officers who had become qualified under
category 1 and 3 above as at 01.07.2005 and 01.01.2006 shall send their applications filled in accordance with the specimen att ached
herewith, to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration thorugh Secretary's of respective Ministries and Head of Departments
before 30.06.2010. Under no any circumstance, application sent after above date shall be accepted. Further application which ar e
incomplete and with false information shall be rejected.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
820
Those officers, who have been in the service up to 01.01.2005 or after that date and possessed required qualification under any
category of para 4, but did not receive promotion even though appeared for interview or who could not apply for promotion, shal l apply
for there promotion even though they are now retired.
Application form can be downloaded through www.pubad.gov.lk.
On the order of the Cabinet of Ministers,
D. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
06th May, 2010.
Form of Application for Promotion of officers in Class I of Sri Lanka Administrative Service to Special Grade
For office use only
Number of the Application S
F
Part - (a) To be filled by the officer.
01. Name –
1.1 Name in full : Miss/Mrs./Mr. :––––––––––––.
1.2 Name indicated in the letter of appointment :––––––––––––.
02. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
03. Private address :––––––––––––.
04. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
4.1 Residence :––––––––––––.
4.2 Mobile :––––––––––––.
05. 5.1 Post :––––––––––––.
(Post hold at present/if retired post held the time of retirement)
5.2 If retired, state the date of retirement :––––––––––––.
06. Ministry/Department :––––––––––––.
07. Official Address :––––––––––––.
08. Official Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
09. Date of Appointments and Promotions :
9.1 Date of appointment to SLAS Grade II/II (Class III) :––––––––––––.
9.2 Date of Promotion to SLAS Grade II/I (Class II) :––––––––––––.
9.3 Date of Promotion to SLAS Grade/Class I :––––––––––––.
(Certified copy of the formal letter of promotion to grade/class I should be attached as No. 9.3)
10. Periods of absence from service and deductions from service period as disciplinary punishments after promotion to Class I :
10.1 Service deduction due to obtaining of leave (Complete only if relevant)
Serial Conditions applied in granting Duration Number of days by which
No. approvals for leave the service is deducted
To        From Y  M D
(i) V:2.5.4 of Establishment Code
(ii) XII:16 of Establishment Code
(iii) Management Service circular No. 10
(iv) Management Service Circular No. 33
(v) XII:36 of Establishment Code
(vi) Other (No pay leave)
Total No. of leave by which the service period is deducted
(Certified copies of letters by which the leave has been approved should be attached by numbering them as 10.1.i, 10.1.ii, 10.1.iii etc.,
as applicable).

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
821
10.2 Deduction of the service on disciplinary grounds. (Complete only if relevant)
Disciplinary Decision Duration in which the offence Number of days by which
has been committed as per the service period is deducted
charge sheet Y M D
(i) Deferring ............... salary increments
(ii) Others
Total number of days by which the service period is deducted
(Certified copies of disciplinary decisions shall be attached by numbering them as 10.2.i, 10.2.ii, 10.2.iii, etc., as applicab le)
10.3 T otal of 10.1 and 10.2 : Year :––––––––––––, Month :––––––––––––, Date :––––––––––––.
10.4 The date after removing the period in 10.3 above out of the period from the date of appointment to Class I :–––––––––––.
11. Date on which the officer becomes eligible to apply for promotion :
(The date out of the following dates - 01.01.2005, 01.07.2005 and 01.01.2006)
11.1 Category 1 : The nearest date of promotion fallen after the date on which the 5 years period is completed from the date
indicated in 10.4 above or, if 10.4 is not appilcable, the date as which 5 years period is completed from the date of
appointment to Class I/Grade I :––––––––––––.
11.2 Category 2 : Either 01.01.2005 or the nearest date of promotion fallen after date of formal appointment to a post in Specia l
Grade :
If the date of appointment to the Post of Special Grade :
(a) Is before the 01.01.2005, the eligible date to apply for promotion is 01.01.2005 :––––––––––––.
(b) Is fallen between 01.01.2005 - 14.11.2005 the date of promotion shall be the nearest promotion date fallen after the
formal appointment to the post of Special Grade :––––––––––––.
(Appointment made to a post in Special Grade after 14.11.2005 do not full under this category)
11.3 Category 3 : The nearest date of promotion fallen after date on which the period of 10 years is completed form the date
indicated 10.4 above or, if it is not applicable, the date on which the period of 10 years is completed from the date of
appointment to Class I/Grade I :––––––––––––.
11.4 Category 4 : Either 01.01.2005 or the nearest date of promotions falling after the date of formal appointment to a Post of
Special Grade :––––––––––––.
Date of appointment to the Post in Special Grade :––––––––––––.
(a) The date of promotions shall be 01.01.2005, if the date of appointment is before 01.01.2005 :––––––––––––.
(b) If the date of appointment falls between 01.01.2005 and 14.11.2005, the date of promotion shall be the nearest date
fallen after above date i. e. 01.07.2005 or 01.01.2006 :––––––––––––.
(Appointment made to a post is Special grade after 14.11.2005 do not full under this category.)
11.5 According to the clarification in, above Category : 4
Category in which the officer becomes eligible :––––––––––––.
Date on which the officer becomes eligible :––––––––––––.
12. The requirement of having earned salary increments within period immediately preceding 5 years :
12.1 Has/Has not* earned all salary increments** falling within 5 years immediately preceding the date as which the officer
becomes eligible for promotion, as per 11.5 above. * (Cross words inapplicable) :––––––––––––.
12.2 If the officer has not earned salary increments** within the 5 years immediately preceding the date indicated in 11.5b, the
date on which the officer becomes eligible for promotion shall be re-calculated. Accordingly, the date on which the officer
becomes eligible for promotion should be :––––––––––––.
**(Attach the certified copies of salary increment slips)
13. The requirement of not having subjected to a disciplinary punishment within the immediately preceding five years :
13.1 As per the personal file the officer has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment within the 5 years immediately
preceding the date mentioned in 11.5 above or the date revised under 12.2. (This should be confirmed by the Head of
Department by a written statement - under part "b" of the application) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
822
13.2 If the officer has been subjected to a disciplinary punishment during the period mentioned in 13.1 and comments have been
made under 10.2 and further the date mentioned under 11.5 is also revised, such date is :––––––––––––.
13.3 The revised date, if the date in 11.5 is revised as per 12.2 and 13.2 :––––––––––––.
14. The requirement of indicating in the annual performance report that the officers' work and conduct are satisfactory within t he
immediately preceding 5 years :
Five years immediately proceeding the year in relation to the date on which the officer becomes eligible as per 11, 12 or 13 above shall
be indicated in the 1st column of following table. Further certified copies of relevant 5 performance reports shall be attached .
Performance reports which have not been duly signed and selected by the relevant officer and the reports where more than one
alternative recommendation have been indicated in final evaluations shall not be accepted :
Year Final evaluation Excellent/above Whether relevant authority is
average/satisfactorily/poor signed and sealed evaluationEach row and column shall be filled in accordance with the performance evaluation report of each other.
15. The requirement of having fulfilled the qualification prescribed in 14(d) of the Service Minute. (complete, only if relevant ) :
15.1 Name of the Post Graduate Degree :––––––––––––.
15.2 Field of study :––––––––––––.
15.3 The University :––––––––––––.
15.4 Whether that university has been recognized by the University Grants Commissions as a University :––––––––––––.
15.5 Duration of the degree. (starting date and ending date) :––––––––––––.
15.6 Effective date of the degree :––––––––––––.
(Certified copies of Degree certificates and the detailed results sheed shall be attached as 15.1)
15.7 Date on which the officer has registered for Post Graduates Degree, If any :––––––––––––.
(Documents required to prove the facts, shall be attached by numbering as 15.6)
16. Requirement of completion of the qualifications in 19(1)(b) of the Service Minute. (Complete only if relevant) :
16.1 T opic of the policy paper :––––––––––––.
16.2 Date of completions (effectives date) of the policy paper :––––––––––––.
(A certified copy of the certificates issued by Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration to the effect that the task
has been successfully, completed, shall be attached as 16.3)
16.3 If the officer has registered to sumit the policy paper and not completed yet :
16.3.1 Date of registration :––––––––––––.
16.3.2 Date of completion :––––––––––––.
(Documents required to prove the facts, shall be attached as 16.3)
17. Appointment to a Post in Special Grade (Complete, only if relevant) :
Duration Designation and Appointment was made by Nature of the appointment/attending to
service Station Cabinet/Governor/Public duti es/Acting/substantive/Contract
Service Commission
(Certified copies of all letters of appointment shall be attached as 17.1, 17.2 etc.)
Please answer the relevant Sections out of 15, 16 and 17 above.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
823
Application containing correct and all information form 01 to 17 above and certified copies of all documents required to be
attached, are hereby subjected as a file by numbering them consecutively and indicating the number relevant to the facts at the top right
corner of the each document.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant,
Designation and Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––––.
Part (b) – To be filled by the Head of the Departments :
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs/relevant Ministry,
1. Particulars mentioned above by the officer are correct.
2. Matters relevant to No. 10, 12, 13 and 17 have been compared with particulars in the file. Accordingly, it is herey certified
that all the particulars mentioned are correct, they have been submitted in perfect manner and further certified copies of all
relevant documents are hereby attached.
3. Whether action is being taken to commence disciplinary action against the officer or disciplinary action is being/is not bein g
taken.
3.1 If the answer is - "is being taken", the date on which the applicant has been committed.
3.2 Date of issuance of the charge sheet by disciplinary authority.
4. Work/attendance/conduct of Mr./Mrs./Miss ................. are satisfactory. Further the officer's performance, leadership, capability
and the capacity to hold posts and responsibilities in relations to next promotion have been taken in to consideration.
Accordingly, it is hereby recommended to promote to officer to Special Grade of SLAS.
5. Application perfected correctly in each and every way and the file containing certified copies of relevant documents which
have been numbered consecutively in accordance with each matter are sent herewith.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department/Institution,
Designation and Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––––.
Note.– cross words in applicable.
Part (c) – To be filled by the Secretary of the respective Ministry :
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
1. I agree/do not agree with the recommendations made by the Head of Department/Institutions on the work and conduct of
Mr./Ms./Miss ............................ officer in Class I of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
2. The works/conduct/special skill and performance of the officer have been duly evaluated.
It is hereby recommended* to promote Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. to Special Grade of Sri Lanka Administrative
Service.
*(Indicate reasons if the promotion is not recommended)
3. Application perfected correctly in each and every way and the file containing certified copies of relevant documents which
have been numbered consecutively in accordance with each matter are sent herewith.
–––––––––––––––,
Secretary.
Ministry of ––––––––––––.
Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––––.
05–565

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
824
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
OPEN   COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  TECHANICAL  OFFICER
(GRADE III)   OF  SRI  LANKA  TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE  TO  BE  APPOINTED  FOR  THE  SERVICE  AT
DISTRICT  SECRETARIAT  AND  DIVISIONAL  SECRETARIATS  UNDER  MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC
 ADMINISTRATION  AND  HOME  AFFAIRS  -  2010
APPLICATIONS are hereby called form the qualified Sri Lanka citizens for the open competitive examination held for recruitment to
above posts.
02. On the result of a Written test conducted by Commissioner General of Examinations, candidates who have proved their
qualifications on merit will be selected for appointment to the posts in Grade III of Technical Officer in Sri Lanka Technological Service
to be attached to District Secretariats and Divisional Secretariats under Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
03. Age Limit. – Candidates should be not less than 18 years and not mroe than 30 years of age on the closing date of
applications. However, the maximum age limit will not be appilcable for the candidates who are already in Public or Provincial Public
Service.
04. (i) Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should pass in G. C. E. (O/L) in not more than two sitting, in six subjects with credit passes for language or
literature, mathematics, science and one other subject.
(ii) Should pass in G . C. E. (A/L) in three subjects including pure mathematics, applied mathematics and physics.
(ii) Professional Qualifications. – Candidates should have obtained one of the following professional qualifications along
with educational qualifications mentioned in 04(i) above.
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by University of Moratuwa or Hardy Institution in Ampara ; or
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority ; or
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by Ministry of Education and Higher Education ; or
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka ; or
(v) Successful completion of part 1 of the Engineering Examination conducted by Sri Lanka Engineering Institute ; or
(vi) Other qualifications recognized by Sri Lanka Technological Services Board as equivalent to above technological
qualifications.
05. Salary Scale.– MN 3-2006 A under Public Administration Circular 06/2006 - Rs. 15,005 -180x4 - 240 x6 -320x11 - 360x20
- Rs. 27,885. Candidates should pass first efficiency bar examination before reaching fourth salary increment.
06. Service Conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii) Selected candidates will be attached to District Secretariats and Divisional Secretariats on the discretion of Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
(iii) Selected candidates are liable to serve in any part of the island.
(iv) Selected candidates will be subjected to a probation period of three years. Candidates who are already in public service
will be subjected to an acting period of one year.
(v) Selected candidates are bound by provisions indicated in Establishments Code and financial regulations and provisions
of Public Administration Circular, order issued from time to time by the government and instructions issued by the
Department.
07. (i) Method of recruitment.– This examination will be held strictly at Colombo by Commissioner General of Examinations
on the supervision of technological service board.
(ii) Scheme of examination :
(i) Examination will be held in both Sinhala and Tamil Media. It is not allowed to change the medium of language applied
by the candidate consequently.
(ii) Candidates should answer all question papers at the examination in one and the same language.
(iii) Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination for
the purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed by
Commissioner General of Examination for violation of these rules and regulations.
(iv) Subjects of the examination .– Examination will consist of two question papers :
(1) Intelligence Test
(2) Question Paper on Technology

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
825
08. Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence test
Duration - 1 hour - Marks 100
This paper consists of questions designed to assess the candidate's capacity for critical reasoning and analytical
power.
(ii) Question paper of technology
Duration - 3 hours - marks 100
This paper consists of questions designed to assess the candidate's capacity on Principles of building construction, for
designing and understanding plans, water supply, drainage systems, disposal of garbage.
The priority list for recruitment will be prepared on the aggregate of marks by selecting candidates who secured 40%
or more for each paper.
Note.– Candidates are required to bring Geometrical sets and other necessary tools to the examination centre for
answering the paper.
09. Penalty for furnishing false information.– Care should be taken to furnish correct information in filling the application form.
If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to during or after the examination, as per
the rules and regulations of this examination. If, during any stage, it is found that a candidate has furnished false he will b e liable for
dismissal from the Public Service. The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the required
qualifications to sit the examination.
10. Examination Fee.– The fee is Rs. 300. It should be paid before the closing date of applications at any District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obta ined
from the District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat should be pasted securely to the relevant cage in the application form. (I t is advisable
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate for future reference) Under no circumstance will the fee be refunded. Mon ey order
or stamps will not be accepted as examination fees.
11. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared using papers of A4 size (21x29cm) (normal half sheets) in such a way that,
(i) Para 01 - 03 appear on the first page and
(ii) Para No. 04 onwards on the other pages.
(iii) Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected without
any notice. Further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form. It is the
responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies with the
specimen given in the examination notice. It is essential to mention the name of examination in English language as
well, in applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil medium.
(b) The completed application form for the examination should be sent by Registered Post to reach below mentioned
address on or before 21st June, 2010.
Commissioner-General of Examination,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
The words "Recruitment to the Post of Technical Officer (Grade III) of Sri Lanka Technological Service - 2010" should
be clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the appliction. Any application received after
the closing date will not be accepted.
(c) A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following
in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. certified photocopies of the application form and the
receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request
furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
12. Candidates will be required to surrender any of the following documents to the supervisor of the examination hall to prove
their identity :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
826
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary to Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs. Candidates shall be bound by the general rules and regulations pertaining to this examination.
D. DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
21st May, 2010.
Specimen Application Form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF TECHNICAL OFFICER (GRADE III)
OF SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE TO BE APPOINTED FOR THE SERVICE AT DISTRICT SECRETARIAT AND
DIVISIONAL SECRETARIATS UNDER MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND HOME AFFAIRS – 2010
(For office use only)
Language Medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals) Eg. : PERERA, A. B. C
1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
1.4 N. I. C. Number :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent (in English block capitals) :––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex : Female -1 Male - 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year :     Month :   Date :
3.3 Age as at 21st June, 2010 :
Years :    Months :  Days :
4.0 Educational qualifications :
4.1 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grad Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
827
4.2 Particulars of G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.0 Technical Qualifications :
Institution Course followed Duration Pass Certificate  No. and Date
6.0 Other qualifications :––––––––––.
7.0 If already in public service :
7.1 Addres of Department/Institution :––––––––––.
7.2 Presnet Post :––––––––––.
7.3 Period of Service :––––––––––.
7.4 Whether the post is permanent and pensionable or temporary :––––––––––.
8.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court of Law ? (Indicate in the Relevant cage) (Indicate particulars, if th e answer
is yes) :
Yes N o
9.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment was made :––––––––––.
(ii) Number and the date of the receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount :––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached
10. Candidate's Certificate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I agree
so suffer any loss that may cause as a result of any informatin not being completed and/or any information erroneously being
included here. I also state that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification before appointment and
to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination for the purpose of holding
this examination.
(d) I shall not change any information mentioned herein later.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.05.2010
828
11. Attestation of Applicant's Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who submits this application, is known to me personally and tha t he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on ....................... and further the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted
the receipt on the applications.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Office attesting the Singnature.
Date :––––––––––.
Name in full of the office, attesting the signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
05–417
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.