

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'17
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.03.2025
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2428$02 - 2025 ud¾;= ui 17 jeks i`ÿod - 2025'03'17
No. 2428/02 -  MONDAY ,  MARCH  17, 2025
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL 
Government  Notiﬁ cations 
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
1A -  PG7062—204  (03/2025)
THE CAMPAIGN REGULATIONS TO BE FOLLOWED DURING ELECTION CAMPAIG NING 
ACTIVITIES, ISSUED TO THE SECRETARIES/ AUTHORIZED AGENTS OF ALL  
POLITICAL PARTIES AND LEADERS OF INDEPENDENT GROUPS CONTESTING THE 
LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 76A OF T HE 
LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE
Schedule 01 outlines the campaign regulations issued by the Election Commission under Section 76A of the Local Authorities 
Elections Ordinance, setting out the rules to be followed at the Local Authorities Elections to be held in 06.05.2025.
 R. M. A. L. Rൺඍඁඇൺඒൺ඄ൾ, M. A. P. C. Pൾඋൾඋൺ, Aආൾൾඋ Fൺൺංඓ,  
 Chairman, Member, Member,  
 Election Commission. Election Commission. Election Commission.   
  A. Sඁൺඇආඎ඀ൺඇൺඍඁൺඇ, Prof. Lൺ඄ඌඁආൺඇ Dංඌඌൺඇൺඒൺ඄ൾ,
  Member, Member,
  Election Commission. Election Commission.
Oﬃ  ce of the Election Commission,
Sarana Mawatha, 
Rajagiriya,
11th day of March, 2025.


<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'17
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.03.2025
Schedule 01
The Election Commission hereby issues the following regulations restricting campaigning activities for the Local Authorities 
Elections to be held on 06.05.2025.
Campaigning Methods and Meetings
1. Advertisements, hoardings, posters, cut-outs, ﬂ  ags, banners, welcome arches, drawings, photographs, election symbols, 
candidate names, distinctive slogans, and clothing or caps prom oting candidates or political parties are prohibited in 
public places.
2. National ﬂ  ags, religious ﬂ ags, and religious symbols shall not be displayed for the promotion of political parties/ groups, 
or candidates under any circumstances.
3. Leaﬂ  ets may be distributed from house to house by a maximum of ﬁ ve (05) individuals to avoid public inconvenience. 
However, such leaﬂ ets cannot be displayed in public. It is mandatory for the add ress of the printing house and the 
publisher’s details to be printed on the leaﬂ ets.
4. For a meeting held in support of a candidate representing a party/ group contesting the election, a poster containing only 
the details of the venue, date, time, list of speakers, and nam es of candidates is permitted to be displayed solely within 
the relevant local government area, beginning seven (07) days prior to the meeting.
5. On the day of the meeting, legally prepared leaﬂ  ets, notices, drawings, and photographs may be displayed only at the 
meeting venue, with decorations permitted solely within the meeting premises during the event. In the case of an outdoor 
venue, decorations are allowed only around the stage and ﬂ ags, banners, and billboards should not be displayed on highways, 
roundabouts, or junctions in the area during the meeting. Additionally, loudspeakers should be installed only inside the 
meeting premises, and their sound should be contained within the premises so as not to disturb areas outside the venue.
6. While candidate campaign posters may  be displayed only on the candidate’s vehicle apporoved by the District Election 
Oﬃ  ce, no election-related leaﬂ ets, display sheets, notice sheets, drawings, photographs of candidates, symbols or signs may 
be displayed on any vehicle in which the candidate is not traveling. Flags or banners may only be displayed on vehicles 
used to transport the Candidate. It is not permissible to display such ﬂ ags or banners on a large number of vehicles based 
on the possibility of a candidate traveling in them. Additional ly, such items cannot be displayed on trains, Sri Lanka 
Transport Board buses, private buses, or other private vehicles used for public transportation.
7. Motorcades are prohibited during campaign activities. (While  the current legal provisions do not specify a particular 
number of vehicles, a motorcade is considered as a party/candidate/political promotion involving ﬁ ve or more vehicles 
moving in succession in a manner that obstructs the general public.)
Campaigning Activities at Notiﬁ ed Campaign Oﬃ  ces
1. Only within the limits of a notiﬁ ed election oﬃ  ce premises, one billboard displaying the name and symbol of the party/
the number and symbol of the Independent group, along with the pirctures of all candidates if necessary, is premitted, 
provided it does not exceed 60 square feet. The photograph of the party or group leader may be included only in the central 
notiﬁ ed oﬃ  ce. Additionally, six ﬂ ags may be displayed within the oﬃ  ce premises. No other decorations are allowed, and 
notices, cutouts, ﬂ ags, or banners of any kind cannot be displayed across or on the highways, pavements, electric poles, 
boundary walls, or similar public spaces. Any attempt to misuse this permission will result in the enforcement of the rule 
that notices and notice boards cannot be displayed in such areas, as per the applicable law.
2. Photographs, voting symbols, slogans, or any other promotional materials of politicians or candidates, other than those 
of the candidate(s) of the relevant party/ group, shall not be displayed in any oﬃ  ce.
3. National ﬂ ags, religious ﬂ ags, and religious symbols shall not be displayed in any notiﬁ ed campaign oﬃ  ce.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'17
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.03.2025
3A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
4. Party or candidate promotion boards, ﬂ ags, banners, photographs, etc., displayed in any notiﬁ ed campaign oﬃ  ce must 
be removed 48 hours before polling day. However, the name board  identifying the oﬃ  ce may remain displayed at the 
notiﬁ ed central oﬃ  ce and the notiﬁ ed divisional oﬃ  ces. If such oﬃ  ces are located within 500 meters of a polling station, 
they must be removed entirely.
5. If a candidate’s residence is designated as a notiﬁ ed campaign oﬃ  ce, it may be decorated in accordance with the restrictions 
outlined herein.
6. It is also crucial for the political party, group, or representative that has obtained approval to operate temporary sheds as 
campaign oﬃ  ces to prepare a work plan ensuring 24-hour security for these sheds.
7. There should be no violation of the general laws and election laws of the island at any notiﬁ ed election oﬃ  ce.
As per Gazette No. 2034/37 dated 01.09.2017, the use of all types of polythene for decorations in political, social, religious, 
national, cultural, or any other festivals or occasions is stri ctly prohibited. Accordingly, leaﬂ ets, advertisements, drawings, 
photographs, ﬂ ags, banners, billboards and arches that are legally prepared as mentioned above must also be produced without 
the use of polythene. Furthermore the use of polythene in the d ecoration of meeting venues, notiﬁ ed campaign oﬃ  ces, and 
all forms of legal campaign activities should be avoided.
EOG 03 - 0186