

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 47]
————————
Presented by Hon. Ali Zahir Moulana Seyed, M. P. for Batticaloa District
on 11th December, 2015
(Published in the Gazette on November 23, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
2-2d
2-
 CASIMI FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
to incorporate the Casimi Foundation
2—PL 009565— 225  (12/2015)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Casimi Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 009381—300 (11/2015)
Preamble.
Short title.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CASIMI FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “ Casimi
Foundation” has heretofore been established for the purpose
of effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and
matters connected with the said Foundation according to
the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the “Casimi Foundation”
(Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2015.
2. From and after the commencement of this Act, such
and so many persons as presently are members of the Casimi
Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession
under the name and style of the “Casimi Foundation” and
by that name may sue and be sued in all courts with full
power and authority to have and use a common seal and to
alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide education on narcotics, natural disasters,
information technology and health;
Incorporation
of the Casimi
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Casimi Foundation (Incorporation)2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to arrange special preparation programes for
GCE (O/L) and GCE (A/L) students and Grade 5
students;
(c) to conduct workshops and discussions to train
teachers of Dhamma Schools and pre-schools;
(d) to provide instruments, equipments ect. for fishing
and agriculture;
(e) to induce youths towords traditional games of the
country and to find career development for them;
(f) to give opportunity and priority to the women
community in all sectors;
(g) to create, facilitate and provide training on self
employment projects for women;
(h) to provide legal facilities and assistance on
discrimintaion for women of getting their equal
rights;
(i) to respect and provide priority services to the senior
citizens and war heroes;
(j) to safeguard and make awareness on child rights;
and
(k) to provide all necessary facilities for the
achievement of all or any of the above objects.
4. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required
for the purpose of the Corporation;
Powers of the
Corporation
to acquire
property,
invest funds,
and raise
loans etc..

<!-- page 4 -->

3Casimi Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to borrow or raise money from the Government
approved banks and other institutions or to receive
grants and donations (local or foreign) for the
purposes of the Corporation with the approval of
the Governing Body;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts;
(d) to invest any funds of the Corporation which are
not immediately required for the purposes of the
Corporation, in such a manner as the Governing
Body may think fit;
(e) to solicit and receive subscription, grants, donations
and gifts of all kinds;
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any
person, company or body of persons;
(g) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer the lawful trusts and conditions affecting
any real or personal property;
(h) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation;
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purposes of the Corporation; and
(j) to do all such other things as are necessary or
expedient for the proper and effective carrying out
of the objects of the Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Casimi Foundation (Incorporation)4
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, at any
General Meeting and by a majority of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting to make rules
from time to time, not inconsistence with the provisions of
this Act, or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, their admission,
expulsion or resignation;
(b) the election of the Governing Body or vacation of,
or removal from office as office bearers and powers,
duties and conduct of the Governing Body;
(c) appointment, powers, duties, functions and conduct
of the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Governing Body,
the Corporation or any sub-committees thereof,
filling of vacancies, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum thereof and the conduct of
business thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership in the Governing Body and the
Corporation; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the accomplishment of the
object of the Corporation.
(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall insofar
as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law be deemed to be the rules of the
Corporation and may be amended, altered, added to or
rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner, as a rule
made under subsection (1) of this section.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Casimi Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
6. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and the
financial year shall be from 1st January, to 31st December of
the every year.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest,  donation,
subscription, contribution fees or grants for and on accounts
of the Corporation shall be deposited in a  bank approved
by the Governing Body to the credit of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation
and all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions
payable to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Governing
Body.
(3) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such  Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law possesses a certificate or practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 7 -->

Casimi Foundation (Incorporation)6
5
10
15
20
Seal of the
Corporation.
Savings of
the rights of
the Republic
and others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
9. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to an institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which is, or
are, by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among the members.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
Secretary, the Chairman and the Treasurer who shall sign
their names on the instrument in token of their presence and
such  signing shall be independent of the signing  of any
person as a witness.
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or any body corporate or
any other persons except such as are mentioned in this Act,
and those claiming by, from, or under them.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution .

<!-- page 8 -->

7Casimi Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .