

<!-- page 1 -->

INDUSTRIAL   SECURITY FOUNDATION
(SRI LANKA)  (INCORPORATION)
  ACT,  No.  51  OF  1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 14th December, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 17, 1999.
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 1999
Short title.
Preamble.
H - 022545
[Certified on 14th December 1999]
L.D.– O. 15/97.
A N  ACT   TO  INCORPORATE  THE  INDUSTRIAL  SECURITY
FOUNDA TION  (SRI LANKA ).
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)” has heretofore
been established for the purpose of effectually carrying out
and transacting all matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
Be  it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Industrial Security
Foundation (Sri Lanka) (Incorporation) Act, No.51 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”) , or shall hereafter be admitted
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)”, and by that name
may sue and be sued in all courts, with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The General objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be –
Incorporation of
the Industrial
Security
Foundation
(Sri Lanka).
General objects of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 1999
(a)to promote and encourage, the science and
professional practice of providing security to
industrial establishments, and commercial
establishments:
(b)to promote and make more effective, the security
measures in industrial and commercial
establishments  by providing for a closer liasion
among all the members of the profession:
(c)to affiliate and laise with other bodies, with similar
objects with a view to facilitating the exchange of
ideas, knowledge and experience;
(d)to encourage and foster ethical and professional
standards of work and conduct for members of the
Corporation, and to take such steps as are necessary
to promote the same;
(e)to collect, collate, and distribute information and
ideas, on methods and techniques for the benefit
and improvement of the security profession:
(f)to foster, promote, encourage and facilitate,
discussion, study, and research on matters and
problems connected with the provision of security.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things what so
ever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise monies, with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds,
and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
General powers of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 1999
Rules of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subjects to the
rules of the Corporation for the time being in force, be
administered by an Executive Committee consisting of office
bearers and such number of members as may be provided for
in such rules and elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) The first Executive Committee of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Executive Committee of the
Foundation holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawfull for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to make such rules, as are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or any other written law, for the
admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members, for the election
of office bearers and the executive  committee and for the
performance of the duties of the Executive Committe and of
the various officers, agents an servants of the Corporation,
for the procedure to be followed in the transaction of business
at meetings of the Corporation and the Executive Committee
and otherwise generally, for the management of the affairs of
the Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Such rules when made may, at a like meeting and in like
manner be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.
(3) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, be deemed to be rules of
the Corporation made under this section.
7. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and   all  such
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 1999
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall
be paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due, to and all subscriptions and contributions
payable to, the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except in the persence of two members
of the Executive Committee who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence, and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of  its income and expenditure, assets and
liabilities and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
In this section, “qualified auditor” mean’s –
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
Debts & c. of
the Foundation.
Audit and
accounts.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Industrial Security Foundation (Sri Lanka)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 51 of 1999
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, posseses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there remains,
after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, any property
whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed among the
members of the Corporation, but shall be given or transferred
to some other Association or Associations having objects
similar to the objects of the Corporation, and which is or are,
by the rules there of prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its or their members. Such Association or
Associations shall be determined by the memebers of the
Corporation at, or immediately  before, the time of the
dissolution of the Corporation.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the  Republic or of any body politic or corporate,
or of any other persons, except such as are mentioned in this
Act, and those claiming by, from, or under them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 7 -->

Annual subscription of  English Bills and Acts of  the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.