

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1967
1967
wxl 1"735 - 2011 foieïn¾ 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'12'02
No. 1,735 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 02, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1970
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1971
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th December, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th
November, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,734 of 25.11.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1968
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1969
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1970
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MONARAGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd January, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
14th November, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Monaragala Bibila Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Kandyan)  of Bibila and Births and   General, District Secretariat Monaragala
  Deaths of Nilgala Division
12–58
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1971
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS
Islamic Deeniyyath (Dharmacharya) Certificate
Examination—2011
RULES and Regulations.– The above examination will be held by the
Commissioner General of Examinations in the March, 2012. Subjects
and the syllabus for the examination are given in Annexure 1.
2. Centres for Examination.– Examination centres will be set up
in towns given in Annex-1 considering the number of candidates.
Candidates will be attached to the nearest examination centre if
there are not enough candidates to set up an examination centre, in
a town.
3. Language Medium .– This examination will be conducted in
all three languages namely Sinhala, Tamil and English. Candidates
will not be allowed to sit for the examination in more than one
language.
4. Qualifications .– Candidates must possess any one of the
following qualifications. The qualification should have been
completed in the year 2008 or before.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02nd January, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
14th November, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  of Castle Division   General, District Secretariat Dam Street,
 Colombo 12
Colombo Sri Jayawardhanapura Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kotte   Kotte North in Colombo Division   General, District Secretariat Dam Street,
 Colombo 12
12–91
4.1. Pass in Ahadiya School Final Certificate Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
4.2 Maulavi Certificate awarded by an Arabic College
registered under the Department of Muslim Religious
and Cultural Affairs or pass in Al Alim Certificate
preliminery Examination conducted by the Department
of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
4.3 Three passes in G. C. E. A/L Examination conducted by
the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, with Islam
or Islamic Civilization as a subject.
4.4 At least two years of teaching experience in an Ahadiya
School or an Arabic College and pass in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination including a Credit for the subject Islam.
Note : (1) Qualifications of candidates indicated in section
4 must be certified by the Principal of the
relevant Ahadiya School or Principal of the
relevant Arabic college.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1972
Note.– (2) Applications must be sent through a Principal
of a registered Ahadiya School or a registered
Arabic College. Private applications will not
be entertained.
5. Application forms and the instructions will be sent by post
to the registered Ahadiya Schools and Arabic Colleges. Institutions
which did not receive the applications and instructions should
contact the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,
Sri Lanka, Pelawatte, Battaramulla, indicating the number of
applicants on or before 23rd December, 2011.
5.1 Application forms must be prepared in duplicate and the
original must be sent to the Department of Examinations.
The copy should be filed in the institution.
5.2 Application forms must be filled clearly and correctly.
Incomplete applications and those received after the
closing of application will be rejected.
5.3 Closing date of application will be 30th December, 2011.
5.4 Completed application forms must be sent by registered
post to the following address :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatte,
Battaramulla.
(Applications will not be acknowledged.)
5.5 The top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing with
the application should have the name of the Exam "Islamic
Deeniyyath (Dharmacharya) Certificate Examination-
2011" and the Centre of the choice (written clearly).
5.6 No document should be annexed to the application. The
Principals of the Institutions should certify to the effect
that the applicant holds the prescribed qualifications.
6. Those who sit for the examination for the first time will be
allowed to sit free of charge. Other applicants must pay an
examination fee of Rs. 150. Referred Candidates who apply for
only one subject must pay Rs. 50 as examination fee.
6.1 Head of the institution should collect the relevant
examination fee from the candidates who are required to
pay and then pay the total amount at a post office to the
Examinations Department Revenue Head 2003-02-13.
The receipt obtained from the post office after making
such payament should be pasted of the application form
(Head of institutions are advised to keep a photocopy
of the receipt with them for future reference).
7. Admission cards will be sent to the Principal of Ahadiya
schools or the Arabic colleges.
7.1 Applicants must hand over the admission cards to the
supervisor on the first instance of sitting the examination.
Failure to do so will result in the cancellation of
candidature.
7.2 Applicants’ signature on the admission card should be
attested by the Principal of Ahadiya School or the
Principal of the Arabic College.
8. Proof of Personal Identification.– Applicants should forward
any one of the following to prove their identity at the examination
centre :
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) A valid passport.
9. Release of Results and Determination of Passes.– Candidates
who obtain passes in all five subjects will be considered to have
passed the examination. They will be awarded the Shareea Certificate
for Islamic Dharmacharya. Those who obtain passes in four subjects
and not less than 25 marks in the fifth subject will be considered as
referred; and if they sit for the referred subject at the first subsequent
examination diet and obtain a pass, they will be entitled for the
award of certificate. The referred candidate should indicate the
details of their results of the previous examination, i. e. the year,
index number, subjects and the results obtained in their application
form.
10. Examination.– This examination consists of five question
papers. Duration of each paper will be 3 hours. The question papers
are as follows:
(1) Aqeeda and Masadirush-shareea (Islamic principles and
legal sources) ;
(2) Al Fiqhul Islami (Islamic law) ;
(3)  Asseera waththaareekul Islami (Seera and Islamic history) ;
(4) Society and Ethics (Al Akhlaq was Sulook) ;
(5) Islamic Literature and Arabic Language (Al lukathul
Arabiyya Wal Adhabul Islami).
11. Structure of the Question Paper :
• Each question paper will consist of Part I, II and III.
• The question in Part-1 is compulsory. There will be 10
short questions. Each question will carry 04 marks.
Eg : How would you convert your day-to-day activities
to Ibadha? (4 x 10 = 40 marks).
• Part-II will consist of 5 structured questions, out of which
only 4 questions should be answered. Each question carries
12 marks. (12x4=48 marks).
• Part-III will consist of 2 essay type questions, out of
which only one question should be answered. It carries 12
marks.  (12 x 1 = 12 marks).
12. Criteria for Determination of Passes  :
• Each question paper will carry a total of 100 marks.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1973
• Pass mark will be 40 marks.
(a) 00 – 24 marks F
(b) 25 – 39 marks W
(c) 40 – 54 marks S
(d) 55 – 64 marks C
(e) 65 – 74 marks B
(f) 75 – 100 marks A
13. Re-scruting of Answer Scripts.– Application for re-scrutiny
of answer scripts should be forwarded through the Principal of the
Institution in the stipulated forms provided by the Department of
Examination within 30 days from the release of results. However a
fee will be levied and it will be refunded only if the results get
changed.
14. Each candidate should abide by the conditions and
instructions given above. Decisions of the Commissioner General
of Examination will be final regarding any other matter not mentioned
above.
A
NURA EDIRISINGHE,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelewatte,
Battaramulla,
09th November, 2011.
ANNEXTURE - 1
T
OWNS WHERE EXAMINA TION CENTRES WILL BE SET-UP
District Number Town Number
01. Colombo District
Colombo Central 01
Bambalapitiya 02
02. Gampaha District
Thihariya 03
Mabola 04
Negombo 05
03. Kaluthara District
Kaluthara 06
Aluthgama 07
04. Galle District
Galle 08
05. Matara District
Matara 09
06. Hambantota District
Hambantota 10
07. Kegalle District
Warakapola 11
Mawanella 12
08. Kurunagala District
Kuliyapitiya 13
Kurunegala 14
Galgamuwa 15
09. Puttalam District
Chilaw 16
Puttalam 17
Kalpitiya 18
10. Anuradhapura District
Anuradapura 19
Kekirawa 20
Galenbindunuwewa 21
11. Polonnaruwa District
Kaduruwela 22
12. Matale District
Matale 23
13. Kandy District
Kandy 24
Nawalapitiya 25
Akurana 26
14. Nuwara Eliya District
Nuwara Eliya 27
15. Ratnapura District
Balangoda 28
16. Badulla District
Badulla 29
Welimada 30
17. Monaragala District
Bibile 31
18. Ampara District
Sammanthurai 32
Kalmunai 33
Akkaraipattu 34
19. Batticaloa District
Kaththankudi 35
Eravur 36
Valaichenai 37
20. Trincomalee District
Trincomalee 38
Mutur 39
Kinniya 40
21. Vavuniya District
V avuniya 41
District Number Town Number

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1974
22. Mannar District
Mannar 42
23. Mullaitivu District
Mullaitivu 43
24. Kilinochchi District
Kilinochchi 44
25. Jaffna District
Jaffna 45
ANNEXTURE-2
01. AQEEDHA AND MASADIRUSH-SHAREEA
1.1 Islamic Aqeedha
1.1.1 Islamic Aqeedha - Introduction and general description
1.1.2 Contents of Islamic Aqeedha
1.1.2.1 Thawheed
- Al uluhiyya
- Al rububiyya
- Understanding Allah’s characteristics through
  Asmaul Husna
1.1.2.2 Ruhaniyyath
1.1.2.3 Nubuwwath
1.1.2.4 Sam-iyyath
1.1.2.5 Kala-Kadhr
1.1.3 Divisions of Aqeedha
1.2 Masadirush Shareea
1.2.1 Masadirun nakliyya - Introduction
1.2.2 Wahi
- Importance of Wahi
- Types of Wahi
1.2.3 Al-Quran
1.2.3.1 Revelation and complication
- Thartheeb nusul, thatheeb thilawath
1.2.3.2 Structure
- Makki - Madani
- Nasik - Mansoor
- Muhkam – Muthashabir
- Asbabun nusul
1.2.3.3 Ihjasul Quran
- Related to language
- Related to law
- Related to science
1.2.3.4 Art of Thafseer
- Origin and development
- Thafseers (Mankool, Mahkool, Modern
  Thafseers)
1.2.3.5 Relations with Al-Quran
- Method of approaching Al-Quran
- Aims of Al-Quran
- Methods of learning Al-Quran
1.2.4 Assunna
1.2.4.1 Description – Literary and practical
1.2.4.2 Sunna as a source for making of law
1.2.4.3 Protection of Hadhees
- Nabi (sal)’s era
- Sahaba’s era
- Thabieens’s era
- Thabauth thabieen’s era
- Modern era
1.2.4.4 Hadhees related arts and their effects
- Asmaur rijal
- Ilmul jarah wath thahtheel
- Usulul Hadhees
1.2.4.5 Understanding of Hadhees
- Hadhees as guidance for life
- Hadhees compilations
1.2.4.6 Approaching Hadhees
- Understanding of Hadhees related to several fields
  (Protection of  environment, health, economics,
  science)
1.2.5 Supportive Sources
1.2.5.1 Ijthihad
- Description – Literary and practical
- Importance
- Divisions of thoughts (Madrasathul asar,
Madrasathul rauyu)
1.2.5.2 Mujthahids
- Qualifications and types
- Their contribution
- Origin and growth of Madhabs
1.2.5.3 Supportive Sources
- Mechanism and uses (Ijma, Kiyas, Maslaha,
Mursala, Urf, Sharau, Sabika, Isthishan, Isthishab,
Kawlussahaba, Sadhdhus Sarau)
02. A
L FIKHUL ISLAM
2.1 Ibadhath
2.1.1 Thaharath : Najees – Description
- Conditions and regulations
2.1.2 Ibadhath
- Literal description and application
- Types of Ibadhaths and its principles
- Relations between Imaan and Ibadhath
2.2 Basic Ibadhath
2.2.1 Salath
- Importance
- Types
District Number Town Number

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1975
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.2 Zakath
- Importance, regulations
- Benefits
- Importance of institutionalizing of Zakath
- Zakathul Fithr
2.2.3 Saum
- Importance, types
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.4 Al Haj
- Importance
- Regulations
- Benefits
2.2.5 Other Ibadhath
- Sadhaka, Umrah
- Thilawathul Quran, Thowba-Isthihfar, Zikr-Awradh,
  Dua
- Kawf, Rajaa, Rila, Thawakkul, Warau, Suhdh
- Siyarathul Kuboor, Kurbani
2.3 Muamalath
2.3.1 Islamic Economy
- Introduction
-Characteristics
2.3.2 Earning and spending
- Importance of earning
- Agriculture (Musara-a, Ihyaul Mamath)
- Industry
2.3.3 Business
- Importance
-  Business methods approved by Islam (Samsara, Baiuth-
  thakseedh, Mularaba, Musharaka, Murabaha, Ijara,
Rahn)
- Modern business methods (Compare with other business
  methods: eg: Banking, Insurance)
2.3.4 Methods of earning, prohibited by Islam
- Adulteration, cheating, hoarding
- Bribe, Gambling, Interest
- Selling things which are haram
2.4 Munakahath
2.4.1 Nikah
- Islamic view of Nikah
- Nikah – Regulations
- Polygamy
2.4.2 Family
- Importance of family life
- Husband-wife - relationship
- Duties and rights
- Bringing up of children - Teachings and guidance
- Parents and children – Duties and rights
- Warasath
2.4.3 Divorce
- Islamic view of divorce
- Types and regulations
- Iddhah - Description, conditions, maintenance
2.5 Jinayath
2.5.1 Jinayath – Introduction
2.5.2 Crimes
- Types
- Remedy
2.5.3 Punishment
- Islamic view of punishment
- Hudhoodh, Kisas, Thahseer
- Kaffara, Fidhya
03. S
EERA AND ISLAMIC HISTORY
3.1 Islamic view of History
   - Characteristics of Islamic History
3.2 Historical Periods
3.2.1 Nabi (sal)’s period
- Period before Nabi (sal)
- Nabi (sal) - Makka period
- Nabi (sal) – Madeena period
3.2.2 Period of Kulafaurrshidheen
- Kaleefa – Method of selection
- Expansion of kingdom
- Reasons and methods
- Challenges encountered
- Personality traits and exemplars of Kaleefa
3.2.3 Period of later Kaleefas
3.2.3.1 Umayya period
- Uprise of Umayya
- Major Kaleefas – Personality traits and
  contributions (Muaviya, Abdhul Malik,
  Waleedh, Umar Ibnu Abdhul Azeez)
- Expansion of kingdom and consequences
- Challenges encountered
3.2.3.2 Abbasid period
- Uprise of Abbasis
- Major Kaleefas and their contributions
  (Mansoor, Haroon, Mamoon)
- Comparisons of rules of Kulafaurrshidheen with
  the rule of later Kaleefas

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1976
3.2.3.3 Other rulers
- Umayyad rule in Spain
- Mogul rule in India
- Usmaniaya rule in Turkey
3.2.3.4 Modern Islamic world
3.3 Islamic Art
3.3.1 Sciences
- Islamic of view of sciences
- Development of following sciences and contributions:
  Medical, History, Mathematics, Astronomy,
  Geography
3.3.2 Aesthetic Art
- Islamic view of aesthetic art
- Origin and development of the following art: Quira-ath,
  Calligraphy, Arabesque, Architecture, Miniature art,
  Music
3.4 Contributions of Masjids in Islamic History
- Origin and services of masjids
- Origin and importance of the following masjids: Masjidhul
Haram, Masjidhul Nabavi, Masjidhul Aqsa
3.5 History of Sri Lankan Muslims
3.5.1 Arrival of Arabs
3.5.2 Introduction of Islam in Sri Lanka
3.5.3 Sri Lankan Muslims
- Spreading of settlements
- Old and new settlements
3.5.4 Religious and Social Structure
- Masjidhs
- Muslim Personal law
- Laws related to Wakf and divorce
- Court of Quasi and appeal court of Quasi
- Department of Muslim religious and cultural affairs
3.6 Muslim Historical Leaders
3.6.1 Sahabas
[Musab Ibnu Umair (Rali), Bilal (Rali), Saidh Ibnu Sabith
(Rali), Thulbijadhain (Rali), Ummu Amara (Rali), Asma
Binthi Abubakr (Rali), Fathima (Rali)]
3.6.2 Thabieens
(Umar Ibnu Abdhul Azeez, Saeedh Ibnu Musaiyyab, Atha
Inbu Abee Rabah, Imam Zuhri)
3.6.3 Thinkers – Reformers
(Abdhul Quadir Jeelani, Imam Gazzaly, Abul Hasan
Shathuli, Ibnu Kaiyyoom Al Jawsy, Muhammadh Ibnu
Abdhul Wahhab, Maulana Ilyas, Imam Hasanul Banna,
Maulana Maudhoodhi)
04. S
OCIETY AND ETHICS
4.1 Society
4.1.1 Introduction
- Man, Islamic view of universe and life
4.1.2 Individual man
- Man’s contribution in society
- Man’s duties towards society
4.1.3 Family
- Individual man and family
- Family’s role in Islamic social structure
- Family’s role and duties in the formation of individual
  man
- Relationship in the family
- Relatives and neighbours
4.1.4 Society
- Characteristics of Islamic social structure (Equality,
  brotherhood,    independence, justice)
- Man and society (Rights)
- Promoting good deeds and demoting bad deeds
- Characteristics and duties of Islamic trainer
- Relationships of Muslims in a multi-ethnic society
- Protecting the weak ones
- V ocational guidance
- Social ethics (Tolerance, compromise, thawasun, obeying
  for leadership, social communication)
- Strengthening and weakening factors of social
  relationships
4.2 Ethics
4.2.1 Relationships with Allah
- Ihlas
- Thaqwa
- Thawakkul
- Acceptance of Allah’s wills wholeheartedly
- Love towards Allah
-  Be thankful
4.2.2 Social ethics related to human relationships
- Brotherhood
- Truthfulness
- Trustworthy
- Forgiving
- Cleanliness
- Kindness
- Shyness
- Patience
4.2.3 Ethics related to other living beings and things
- Showing love towards living beings and look into their
  welfare
- Protecting physical environment
- Doing good for the country
- Disaster management

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1977
05. ISLAMIC LITERATURE AND ARABIC LANGUAGE
5.1 Islamic Literature
- Theories and Principles of Islamic Literature
- Modern Islamic Literature – An introduction
5.2 Contribution of the following individuals towards Islamic
Literature :
In Tamil
-M.C.Siththy lebbe
-Dr.M.M.Uvais
-A.M.A.Azeez
-Umar Hazrath
-U.M.Thasim
-Poet, Abdhul Kadar lebbe
In Sinhala
-Dr.M.M.Uvais
-S.M.Mansoor
-A.M.Shahul Hameed
-M.H.M.Shums
-M.A.Mahamed Master (Dikwella)
-Matara, Cassim Poet
5.3 Arabic Tamil
5.3.1 Arabic Tamil - Introduction
- Arabic Tamil Origin and development
5.3.2 Knowledge related to the following creative works :
- Fathuhudhdhayyan - Alimul Aroos
- Thafseer - Seiku Musthafa (Beruwala)
- Quthbas of Ibnu Nufadha
- Meesan Malai
- Thalai Fathiha
- Thakkashurudh
5.4 Arabic Language
5.4.1 Development of language skills
- Listening
- Speaking
- Reading
- Writing
5.4.2 W ords and phrases used in day-to-day life
- Short sentences
5.4.3 T ranslate into Arabic from English / Sinhala / Tamil
Translate into English / Sinhala / Tamil from Arabic
5.4.4 Answer questions related to a given paragraph
- Insertion of punctuation marks in the paragraph
5.4.5 Appreciation of literature – Al Quran and Sunna
- Mufradhathul Quran
- Description of a given situation
5.4.6 Ahkamuth Thajweedh – Laws of Thajweedh
5.4.7 Grammatical knowledge
5.4.7.1 Assarbu
- Verbs - Past, present and future
- Verbs - First person, second person, third person
- Difference of masculine, feminine, singular and
  plural
- Verb - Commands
- Passive verbs - In past and present tense
- Base verbs (Masther)
- Plural forms
5.4.7.2 Annahwu
- Al mufthadha wal kafar
- Al fial wal fa-il
- Asmaul Ishara
- Assifath
- Huruful Jarru
- Al mulaf wal mulaf ilaihi
- Kaana wa akawathuha
- Inna wa akawathuha
- Al Haal
12-43
––––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS I  OF  GRAMA   NILADHARI   SERVICE - 2011
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers in Class I of Grama Niladhari Service will be held by the
Commissioner - General of Examinations in the month of March
2012 as per the approved service minute of Grama Niladhari Service,
and the applications are hereby called for the same.
2.0 This examination for officers in Class I of the of Grama
Niladhari Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara,
Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.  Examination
will be held only in the towns determined for the purpose. The list
of relevant towns and town numbers are given below.  The relevant
section of the application should be filled by referring to the table
of towns and town numbers given below.  It will not be allowed to
change subsequently the town/towns indicated. Any centre
mentioned above can be cancelled due to insufficiency of candidates
and the candidates can be directed to a nearby centre.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1978
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment
imposed by the Commissioner - General of
Examinations for violation of these rules and
regulations.
4.0 Eligibility.– Officers who have been appointed to posts in
Class I of Grama Niladhari Service as per the Procedure of
Recruitment effective from 29.09.2010 are eligible to appear for
this examination.
5.0 Examination Procedure.- Candidates should sit for a written
examination, which will consist of the following subjects :
             Subject Marks Duration  Subject
No.
1. Office systems, General
Conduct and Discipline in
the Public Service 100      1 ½ hours  01
2. Subject Related Studies
and Professional Knowledge 100           1 ½ hours  02
5.1 Office systems, General Conduct and Discipline in the
Public Service
Office Systems :
This paper is intended to test the candidate's knowledge
of office systems adopted in government offices and his
/ her ability of practical application of the knowledge.
General Conduct and Discipline in the Public Service
The candidates’ knowledge on delegation of power
according to the regulations of Public Service Commission,
termination of service, regulations with regard to sending
on retirement and provisions in Chapter XLVII and
XL VIII in V olume II of the Establishments Code on general
conduct and disciplinary procedures and Circulars issued
in relation to the above will be tested.
This paper consists of two parts :
Part I - A paper of multiple-choice questions,
duration is 30 minutes.  ( 25 marks).
Part II - A paper consisting of 03 structured essay
type questions. All 03 questions should be
answered. (75 marks)
5.2 Subject Related Studies and Professional Knowledge.
The knowledge of the officers on duties entrusted to
Grama Niladharies by various rules and regulations,
Ministries, departments, provincial councils and other
statutory institutions of the government shall be tested
and further a case study will be given to the candidate on
matters relevant to the subjects.
Part I - A paper of multiple-choice questions, duration
is 30 minutes. ( 25 marks)
Part II - A paper consisting of 03 structured essay type
questions. All 03  questions should be
answered. (75 marks)
6.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium and candidates should answer question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the
relevant service or in an official language.  In case of candidates who
entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers
should be answered in the language medium of their education or in
an official language.  It will not be allowed to change the language
medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
7.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
The date after the date on which the examination held for the
candidate to complete all the subjects shall be treated as the date of
passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
8.0 The results of the examination will be issued by the
Commissioner General of Examination to me and action will be
taken to notify the applicants the names of the candidates who
have passed the examination through District Secretaries and
Divisional Secretaries.
9.0 The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Applications should be sent by the
Registered post through Divisional Secretary of their Divisional
Secretariat Division to reach the 
Commissioner - General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations, Organization & Foreign
Examinations Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, on or before 30th
of December 2011. The name of the examination should be indicated
at the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Incomplete applications, too, will not be accepted.
10.0 Identity of the Candidates.- Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
Town Town No.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1979
supervisor for each subject they offer.  For this purpose one of the
following documents, along with the admission card issued by the
Department of Examinations on which the signature has been
certified should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registrations of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner - General of Examinations.
11.0 Applications.- Applications should be prepared in a paper
of A4 size in such a manner that Para. Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page and 6.0 and 7.0 on the second page. The application could
be typewritten but it should be filled in correctly and legibly by
candidate's own handwriting. Application should strictly conform
to the specimen appended and candidates are advised not to send
more than one application or photocopies. Applications that do
not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected
properly will be rejected without notice. Please indicate the title of
the examination appearing the specimen in English language as well,
on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility
of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected
by him/herself complies with the specimen given in the examination
notice and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
completed application form.
12.0 Officers appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings,
Rs. 400 for the whole examination and Rs. 200 for only one subject
should be paid at any post-office island-wide to be credited to
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The receipt obtained in favour of the applicant should
be affixed to the relevant cage of the applications form. It is advisable
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. The fee paid
for this examination will not be refunded under any circumstance. It
will not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination in
favour of another.
13.0 The Commissioner .- General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled
the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in
hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations: i.e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept
at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent.
14.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear
for the examination.  No travelling expenses will be paid.
15.0 The candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations on
the conduct of the examination imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination. The candidates are liable to be subjected to
any punishments imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations and my decision shall be the final, in respect of any
matter not provided for in this notification.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration &
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
16th November, 2011.
Specimen Form of Application
    (For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS I OF GRAMA NILADHARI SERVICE -  (2011)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the name and the number of the town in which you wish
to sit for the examination as per the Para. No.2.0 in the Gazette
Notification)(This cannot be changed subsequently)
Medium of examination:
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(This cannot be changed subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) Eg: SILVA, A.B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.0 2.1 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals).

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1980
2.2 District and Divisional Secretary’s Division where the
candidate works :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.3 District and Divisional Secretary’s Division where the
candidate works :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
 3.0 3.1 National Identity Card :
3.2 Sex :
Female -  1
Male -  0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year :                          Month :                Date :
4.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting (Refer Para. 5.0 of the Gazette
Notification) :
Index No. Subject Subject No:
01
02
03
5.0 5.1 Grade :–––––––––––.
5.2 Post :–––––––––––.
5.3 Date of appointment to the relevant Grade :––––––––.
6.0 N.B :- The receipt of the examination fee obtained from the
Divisional Secretariat in  favour of the applicant should be
affixed here firmly :
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
District / Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Amount Rs. :–––––––––––.
7.0 I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium
indicated above.  Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations issued by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations regarding this examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Certification of the Divisional Secretary
I certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss .............. Grama Niladhari, who
works at Grama Niladhari Division of  ........................... in Divisional
Secretary’s Division of ............................... and
(i) has placed his / her signature in my presence
(ii) have checked the details provided above
EFFICIENCY   BAR   EXAMINATION   FOR  OFFICERS IN
CLASS  II  OF  GRAMA   NILADHARI   SERVICE - 2011
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers in Class II of Grama Niladhari Service will be held by the
Commissioner - General of Examinations in the month of March
2012 as per provisions of approved Recruitment Procedure of
Grama Niladhari Service, and the applications are called for the
examination.
2.0 This examination for officers in Class II of the Grama
Niladhari Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara,
Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.  Examination
will be held only in the towns determined for the purpose. The list
of relevant towns and town numbers are given below. The relevant
section of the application should be filled by referring to the table
of towns and town numbers given below.  It will not be allowed to
change subsequently the town/towns indicated. Any center
mentioned above shall be cancelled due to insufficiency of candidates
and the candidates shall be directed to a nearby center.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
(iii) the officer is eligible to sit for this examination
(iv) the receipt of the prescribed examination fee is affixed
here.
 (Delete inapplicable words)
–––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
the Divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
12–88/1
–––––––––––––––

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1981
3.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of  Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner - General of Examinations for
violation of these rules and regulations.
4.0 Eligibility.– Officers who have been absorbed into Grade II
of Grama Niladhari Service as per the Recruitment Procedure which
was in effect from 29.09.2010 are eligible to appear for this
examination.
5.0 Examination Procedure. – The candidates should sit for a
written examination that includes the following subjects.
             Subject Marks Duration  Subject
No.
1. Office systems, office
functions and 100 1 ½ hours 01
Procedural rules
2. Subject related studies and
professional Knowledge. 100 1 ½ hours 02
5.1 Office systems, office functions and Procedural rules
Office Systems
It is intended to test the knowledge of office systems
adopted in government offices and Offices of Grama
Niladharies and the ability of practical application of the
knowledge.
Office Systems and Procedural rules
It is intended to test the knowledge on Procedural rules
issued by the Public Service Commission and the
provisions of Chapter VII, IX, XI, XII, XIV , XV , XVI,
XVII, XXI, XXII, XXIII, XXIV, XXV, XXVI, XXVII,
XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII of
Establishment Code and the Public Administration
Circulars and Circulars issued by the Public Service
Commission.
This paper consists of two parts.
Part I - A paper of multiple-choice questions. Duration
is 30 minutes.    (25 marks).
Part II - A paper consisting of 03 structured essay type
questions. All 03 questions should be answered.
(75 marks)
5.2  Subject related studies and professional knowledge
The knowledge of the officers on duties entrusted to
Grama Niladharies by various rules and regulations,
Ministries, departments, provincial councils and other
statutory institutions of the government shall be tested
and further a case study will be given to the candidate on
matters relevant to the subjects.
Part I - A paper of multiple-choice questions.
Duration is 30 minutes. (25 marks).
Part II - A paper consisting of 03 structured essay
type questions. All 03  questions should be
answered. (75 marks)
6.0 This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages and the officers can sit for the examination in the language
medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the relevant
service or in an official language.  In case of officers who entered the
service without a Competitive Examination, they can sit for the
examination in the language medium of their education or in an
official language. It will not be allowed to change the language medium
of examination applied for, subsequently.
7.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
The date on which the examination held for the candidate to complete
all the subjects shall be treated as the date of passing the Efficiency
Bar Examination.
8.0 The Commissioner - General of Examinations will release
the results of the examination to me and the candidates who have
passed the exam will be notified through District Secretary and
Divisional Secretary.
9.0 Application should strictly conform to the specimen
appended. The candidates should prepare their application according
to the specimen and the application prepared accordingly should
be sent through registered post through Divisional Secretary of
their Divisional Secretariat Division on or before 30th of December
2011 addressed to 
Commissioner General of Examination,
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, Organization & Foreign
Examinations Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla. The name of the
examination should be indicated at the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application. Applications received after
the closing date will be rejected.  Incomplete applications too, will
not be accepted.
10.0 Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the   examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of
the following documents, along with the admission card issued by
the Department of Examinations on which the signature has been
certified should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registrations of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner - General of Examinations.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1982
11.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper
of A4 size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page and 6.0 and 7.0 on the second page. The application could
be typewritten but it should be filled in correctly and legibly by
candidate's own handwriting. Application should strictly conform
to the specimen appended and candidates are advised not to send
more than one application or photocopies. Applications that do
not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected
properly will be rejected without notice. Please indicate the title of
the examination appearing the specimen in English language as well,
on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility
of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected
by him/herself complies with the specimen given in the examination
notice and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
completed application form.
12.0 Officers appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings,
Rs. 400 for the whole examination and Rs. 200 for only one subject
should be paid at any District or Divisional Secretariat island-wide
to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner
General of Examinations. The receipt obtained in favour of the
applicant should be affixed to the relevant cage of the applications
form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the
candidate. The fee paid for this examination will not be refunded
under any circumstance. It will not be allowed to transfer the fee
paid for this examination in favour of another.
13.0 The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled
the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in
hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations: i.e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept
at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent.
14.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear
for the examination.  No traveling expenses will be paid.
15.0 The candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations on
the conduct of the examination imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination. The candidates are liable to be subjected to
any punishments imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations and my decision shall be the final, in respect of any
matter not provided for in this notification.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration &
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
16th November, 2011.
Specimen Form of Application
    (For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF GRAMA NILADHARI SERVICE -  (2011)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the name and the number of the town in which you wish
to sit for the examination as per the Para No.2.0 in the Gazette
notification) (This cannot be changed subsequently)
Medium of examination:
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(This cannot be changed subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) Eg: SILVA, A.B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.0 2.1 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals).
2.2 District and Divisional Secretary’s Division where the
candidate works :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.3 District and Divisional Secretary’s Division where the
candidate works :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
 3.0 3.1 National Identity Card :

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1983
3.2 Sex :
Female -  1
Male -  0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year :                          Month :                Date :
4.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting (Refer Para. 5.0 of the Gazette
Notification) :
Index No. Subject Subject No:
01
02
03
5.0 5.1 Grade :–––––––––––.
5.2 Post :–––––––––––.
5.3 Date of appointment to the relevant Grade :––––––––.
6.0 N.B :- The receipt of the examination fee obtained from the
Divisional Secretariat in  favour of the applicant should be
affixed here firmly
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
District / Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Amount Rs. :–––––––––––.
7.0 I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium
indicated above.  Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations issued by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations regarding this examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Certification of the Divisional Secretary
I certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss .............. Grama Niladhari, who
works at Grama Niladhari Division of  ........................... in Divisional
Secretary’s Division of ............................... and
(i) has placed his / her signature in my presence
(ii) have checked the details provided above
(iii) the officer is eligible to sit for this examination
(iv) the receipt of the prescribed examination fee is affixed
here
 (Delete inapplicable words)
–––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
the Divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
12–88/2
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  III  OF  GRAMA  NILADHARI  SERVICE  (2011)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination and a
written test in computer skills for the officers in Class III of Grama
Niladhari Service will be held by the Commissioner - General of
Examinations in the month of March 2012 as per the approved
service minute of Grama Niladhari Service, and the applications are
called for the examination.
2.0 This examination for officers in Class III of the Grama
Niladharis Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara,
Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. Examination
will be held only in the towns determined for the purpose. The list
of relevant towns and town numbers are given below.  The relevant
section of the application should be filled by referring to the table
of towns and town numbers given below.  It will not be allowed to
change subsequently the town/towns indicated. Any centre
mentioned above can be cancelled due to insufficiency of candidates
and the candidates can be directed to a nearby centre.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner - General of Examinations for
violation of these rules and regulations.
4.0 Eligibility.– Officers who have been absorbed to Grade III of
Grama Niladhari Service as per the Procedure of Recruitment
effective from 29.09.2010 are eligible to appear for this examination.
5.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for a written
examination, which will consist of the following subjects :–

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1984
             Subject Subject Duration Marks
No.
1. Office systems and
Accounts 01 2 hours 100
2. Subject Related Professional
Knowledge  02 2 hours           100
3. Computer Test   03 1 ½ hours 100
5.1 Office systems, and Accounts (Subject No- 01) :
Office Systems
It is intended to test the candidate's ability to apply
the basic knowledge on office systems used in Grama
Niladhari office and other government offices, ability
to understand official letters and documents properly
and to present his/her opinions/observations through
brief notes and the ability to draft a report on subject
related matters.
Accounts
It is intended to test the candidates of their knowledge
on basic accounts and accounts systems used in the
duties related to Grama Niladhari Service and other
government offices, functions of cash control accounts
and procurement procedures.
Part I - Consists of a short answer test. Questions
should be answered in  the paper itself. Should
answer all questions (25 marks)
Part II - A paper consisting of 03 structured essay type
questions. All 03  questions should be
answered. (75 marks)
5.2 Subject related professional knowledge (Subject No –
02) :
This paper is designed to test the knowledge of Grama
Niladhari on the duties entrusted to him by various
Acts and Regulations, Ministries, Departments
Provincial Councils and other statutory institutions of
the Government .
Part I Consists of a short answer test. Questions
should be answered in  the paper itself. Should
answer all questions (25 marks)
Part II A paper consisting of 03 structured essay type
questions. All 03 questions should be answered.
(75 marks)
5.3 Computer Test :
The objective of this is to test whether the candidates
is having following skills :–
Basic concepts of Information
Technology
Windows Operating System
Folder Management
Word Processing File Management
Basic skills, screen familiarization, editing
texts,
Aligning text, fonts and attributes,
indenting paragraphs, change of line
spacing,  Tab setting, finding and
replacing text, spelling and grammar,
thesaurus, working with columns, page
setup, printing documents, creating
tables. Sorting texts, file management,
mail merging, working with macros
Spreadsheets Basic skills, formatting, editing, columns
and ranges, insertion and deletion, sorting
data, creating charts, printing, @
function, working with macros, file
management
Data Base Introduction, Basic Skills
Designing data base and use Formats
Queries, pop up Forms
Dialog and message boxes
Sorting
Obtaining reports
Use of macro
Presentation/ Illustrations Basic Skills, editing, formatting
Applying Designs, Inserting images,
Clip Art and Graphs
Slide Transition and effects, Animations
Using Presentation Tools
Preparing Masters, Printing slides and
notes
Internet Introduction to internet, world wide
web, How to navigate, Practical internet
E-mail Introduction, basic skills, receiving mail,
sending mail, responding to mails,
working with attachments, creating and
using nicknames, composing messages,
This paper consists of two parts.–
Part I 40 Multiple Choice Questions/short
answer  questions. Time 45 Minutes (40
Marks)
Part II 05 Semi Structured questions. Time 45
Minutes (60 Marks)
Note.– Officers those who have obtained computer operating
license awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial
Training Authority and those who have obtained
certificates (of which the recognition is equivalent or
higher to computer operating license) on theory and
practical knowledge of computer technology issued by
the institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1985
V ocational Education Commission as per Para 08 of Annex
2 of Recruitment Procedure for Grama Niladharies dated
29.09.2010 and  mentioned here in Schedule – I shall be
exempted from the requirement of passing this computer
test. Further, officers who have obtained the certificate
of Computer Application Assistant (NVQ- Level 3)
offered by National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority shall also be exempted from the written test.
6.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium and candidates should answer question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the
relevant service or in an official language.  In case of candidates who
entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers
should be answered in the language medium of their education or in
an official language.  It will not be allowed to change the language
medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
7.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
The date after the date on which the examination held for the
candidate to complete all the subjects shall be treated as the date of
passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
8.0 The results of the examination will be issued by the
Commissioner General of Examination to me and action will be
taken to notify the applicants the names of the candidates who
have passed the examination through District Secretaries and
Divisional Secretaries.
9.0 The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Applications should be sent by the
Registered post through Divisional Secretariat of their Division
Secretariat Division to reach the 
Commissioner - General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka,
Organization & Foreign Examinations Branch, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla, on or before 30th of December 2011. The name of the
examination should be indicated at the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application. Applications received after
the closing date will be rejected.  Incomplete applications, too, will
not be accepted.
10.0 Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer.  For this purpose one of the
following documents, along with the admission card issued by the
Department of Examinations on which the signature has been
certified should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the
above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the
discretion of the Commissioner - General of Examinations.
11.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper
of A4 size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appears on the
first page and 6.0 and 7.0 on the second page. The application could
be typewritten but it should be filled in correctly and legibly by
candidate's own handwriting. Application should strictly conform
to the specimen appended and candidates are advised not to send
more than one application or photocopies. Applications that do
not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected
properly will be rejected without notice. Please indicate the title of
the examination appearing the specimen in English language as well,
on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility
of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected
by him/her complies with the specimen given in the examination
notice and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
completed application form.
12.0 Officers appearing for the examination for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings,
Rs. 400/= for the whole examination and Rs. 200/= for only one
subject should be paid at any post-office island-wide to be credited
to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The receipt obtained in favour of the applicant should
be affixed to the relevant cage of the applications form. It is advisable
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. It will not
be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination in favour of
another.
13.0 The Commissioner.– General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled
the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in
hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations: i.e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept
at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent.
14.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear
for the examination.  No traveling expenses will be paid.
15.0 The candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations on
the conduct of the examination imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination. The candidates are liable to be subjected to
any punishments imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations and my decision shall be the final, in respect of any
matter not provided for in this notification
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration &
Home Affairs
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
16th November, 2011.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1986
Schedule – I
THE SCHEDULE OF THE COMPUTER CERTIFICATES ISSUED BY THE INSTITUTIONS RECOGNIZED BY TERTIARY
EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION COMMISSION
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.
1 Computer Training Center No.09, Dharmarama Mawatha, Colombo 06 Computer Application Assistant
2 Computer Training Center - NAITA Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala Computer Application Assistant
3 Computer Training Center - NAITA No.525/2, Maithiripala Senanayaka Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Rathnanayakepura, Anuradhapura
4 Apprenticeship Training Institute No. 581, Galle Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa. Computer Application Assistant
5 Computer Training Center - NAITA Ratalankawatta, Mapalana, Kamburupitiya Computer Application Assistant
6 Sri Saranankara Apprentice Udawatta, Baddegama Computer Application Assistant
Training Centre - NAITA
7 Computer Training Center - NAITA Mahaweli Economic Agency Building, Embilipitiya Computer Application Assistant
8 Computer Education Center Divisional Secretariat Office, Anguruwaththa, Computer Application Assistant
Madurawela
9 Technical College Werallawatta, Yakkala, Gampaha Computer Application Assistant
10 Yovun Nikethanaya Computer Application Assistant
11 Vocational Training Centre National Youth Services Council, Pallidora Road, Computer Application Assistant
Kawdana, Dehiwala
12 National Youth Services Council No. 65, High Level Road, Maharagama Computer Application Assistant
13 Don Bosco Vocational Training Centre Puttalam Road, Nochchiyagama Computer Application Assistant
14 Institute of Professional 178A, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Computer Application Assistant
Computer Systems
15 Technology and Computer No. 15, 1/1, Piyadasa Sirisena Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Training Institute Maradana, Colombo 10
16 Cholankanda Youth Training Centre Udahenthanna, S.P .O. 20506, Via Gampola Computer Application Assistant
17 Bishop Leo Technical Institute USCOD Centre, St. Bedes Home, Badulla Computer Application Assistant
18 SOS Children’s Village of Sri Lanka V ocational Training Centre, Maduruketiya, Computer Application Assistant
Monaragala
19 Beeta Com Multimedia & No. 20, Danovita Road, Meerigama Computer Application Assistant
Computer Studies
20 Don Bosco Technical Centre No. 22, Don Bosco Mawatha, Ettukala, Negombo Computer Application Assistant
21 Rathanasela Nenasala Computer Ce ntre Rathanasela Pirivena, Weegama, Rathmale, Computer Application Assistant
Ku/Itanawatta
22 Navoda Computer Education Institute No. 72, Devananda Road, Navinna, Maharagama Computer Application Assistant
23 N.K.I. Computer Trainning Institute Manahara Building, Pituwala Road, Elpitiya Computer Application Assistant
24 Lanka Tech Computer No. 2/52, Horana Road, Piliyandala Computer Application Assistant
25 M.D.P . Computer Trainning Institute No. 64/A/1 Station Road, Kadana Computer Application Assistant
26 Infornet Computer Systems No. 143/1A, Ananda Senanayaka Complex, Computer Application Assistant
Katuwana Road, Homagama
27 Informax Computer Technology No. 52, Matale Road, Galewela Computer Application Assistant
28 Advance Training Centre (ATC) No. 2, Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Computer Application Assistant
29 Thondaman Vocational Training C entre Saumymoorthi Thondaman Memorial Computer Application Assistant
Foundation, Pool Bank, Hatton
30 Sri Lanka Nippon Education and Mahindarama Road, Ethulkotte, Kotte Computer Application Assistant
Cultural Center
31 Rural V ocational Training Centre Mudukatuwa, Marawila Computer Application Assistant
32 District V ocational T raining Centre Galigamuwa Town, Ballapana, Kegalle Computer Application Assistant
33 National V ocational Training Centre No.354, Elvitigala Mw., Narahenpita, Colombo 5 Computer Application Assistant
34 District V ocational Training Centre Saragama, Kurunagala Computer Application Assistant
35 National Vocational Training Institute No. 100, Kandawala Road, Ratmalana Computer Application Assistant
36 Rural V ocational Training Centre- Meeta Social Service Foundation, Weherahena, Matara Computer Application Assistant
Weherahena
37 District V ocational Training Centre Wattha, Tissa Road, Wellawaya Computer Application Assistant
38 Agonsu Training Center Saranawattha, Nayamulla, Morawaka Computer Application Assistant
39 Special Vocational Training Centre Higher Computer Training Institute, Fort, Matara Computer Application Assistant
40 Kubalgama Sunami V ocational Sri Jinendraramaya, Kubalgama, Weligama Computer Application Assistant
Training Centre
41 Lakviru Sevana Rural V ocational No.48, Bodhirukkarama Mawatha, Wellawaththa, Computer Application Assistant
Training Centre Colombo 6
42 National Vocational Training Institute Niyagama, Thalgaswala Computer Application Assistant
43 District V ocational Training Centre Mirijjawila, Hambanthota Computer Application Assistant
44 Rural V ocational Training Centre Erukkalampiddy, Nagavillu, Palavi Computer Application Assistant

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1987
Specimen Form of Application
    (For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS III OF GRAMA NILADHARI SERVICE -  (2011)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the name and the number of the town in which you
wish to sit for the examination as per the Para. No.2.0 in the gazette
notification).
(This cannot be changed subsequently)
Medium of examination:
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
(This cannot be changed subsequently.)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) Eg.: SILVA, A.B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.0 2.1 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals).
2.2 District and Divisional Secretary’s Division where the
candidate works :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.3 District and Divisional Secretary’s Division where the
candidate works :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
 3.0 3.1 National Identity Card No. :
3.2 Sex :
Female -  1
Male -  0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year :                          Month :                Date :
4.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting (Refer Para. 5.0 of the Gazette
Notification) :
Index No. Subject Subject No.
01
02
03
5.0 5.1 Grade :–––––––––––.
5.2 Post :–––––––––––.
5.3 Date of appointment to the relevant Grade :––––––––.
6.0 N.B.– The receipt of the examination fee obtained from the
Divisional Secretariat in  favour of the applicant should be
affixed here firmly :
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
District / Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Amount Rs. :–––––––––––.
7.0 I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium
indicated above.  Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations issued by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations regarding this examination.
––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
Certification of the Divisional Secretary
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. .............. Grama Niladhari, who
works at Grama Niladhari Division of  ........................... in Divisional
Secretary’s Division of ............................... and
(i) has placed his / her signature in my presence ;
(ii) have checked the details provided above ;
(iii) the officer is eligible to sit for this examination ;
(iv) the receipt of the prescribed examination fee is affixed
here.
 (Delete inapplicable words.)
–––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
the Divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
12–88/3

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1988
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Open/Limited Competitive Examination for the
Recruitment to the Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka
Agricultural Service – 2011
IT is hereby informed that the closing date of the submission of the
applications for the above examination, stipulated in the Chapter 2.3
of the Advertisement No. 09-185 published in the Part I: Section
II(A), Examinations, Examination Results section of the Gazette
No. 1,723 dated 09.09.2011 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka and as amended by the Advertisement No. 09-1150
published in the Part I : Section II(A), of the Gazette No. 1,725 dated
23.09.2011 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, has
been postponed to December, 12 of 2011.
02. Accordingly, the applicants who have not been able to forward
their applications and possess required qualifications as stipulated
in the Gazette Notification on 09.09.2011 should submit their
applications prepared according to the specimen application as
appeared in the Gazette Notification, by paying the relevant
Examination fees, to reach to the address given in the advertisement
on or before the closing date.
03. Further, the qualifications stipulated in the Gazette
Notification should be fulfilled to the date 07.10.2011 and the
applicants who have already submitted their applications, should
not be resubmitted.
As the order of Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture.
“Govijana Mandiraya”,
No. 80/5, Rajamalwatte Lane,
Battaramulla,
21st November, 2011.
12–205

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1989
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2011
1990
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2011
DECEMBER 02.12.2011 Friday — 18.11.2011 Friday 12 noon
09.12.2011 Friday –– 25.11.2011 Friday 12 noon
16.12.2011 Friday –– 02.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
23.12.2011 Friday –– 09.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
30.12.2011 Friday –– 16.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
2012
JANUARY 06.01.2012 Friday — 23.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
13.01.2012 Friday –– 30.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
20.01.2012 Friday –– 06.01.2012 Friday 12 noon
27.01.2012 Friday –– 13.01.2012 Friday 12 noon
FEBRUARY 03.02.2012 Friday — 20.01.2012 Friday 12 noon
10.02.2012 Friday –– 27.01.2012 Friday 12 noon
17.02.2012 Friday –– 03.02.2012 Friday 12 noon
24.02.2012 Friday –– 10.02.2012 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.