

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG 5335 — 470 (03/2021)
w;s úfYI
wxl 2217$7 - 2021 ud¾;= ui 02 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2021'03'02
No.  2217/7  - TUESDAY ,   MARCH    02,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
INLAND REVENUE ACT, No. 24 OF 2017
Regulations under Section 194 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
REGULATIONS made under section 194 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 (hereinafter referred as the Act) for the
purpose of sections 76, 77 and 78 of the Act.
These regulations operate effective from April 1, 2020 and rescind the Regulations published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 2104/4 of December 31, 2018, effective from the same date.
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA,
Minister of Finance.
Colombo,
02nd March, 2021.
REGULATIONS  ON  TRANSFER  PRICING
SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT
These regulations may be cited as the Regulations on Transfer Pricing No. 02 of  2020 and come into operation with effect
from April 1, 2020.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
2A
1. Transfer Pricing Regulations apply to International Transactions referred to in section 76, and to the following cases
of transactions made between associated enterprises from transactions referred to in section 77 of the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 24 of 2017:
(a) If there are tax exemptions granted to any one of the associated enterprises under the Inland Revenue Act, No.
38 of 2000 or Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 or Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 or under the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978; or
(b) If any difference between income tax rates specified in any of the Schedules to the Act or any income tax rate
given in the agreement entered into under the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978 is applicable
to any one of the associated enterprises; or
(c) If any loss incurred by any of the associated enterprises for the year of assessment or immediately preceding
years of assessment which has been brought forward to the year of assessment.
2. Arm’s Length Price -The arm’s length price, referred to in section 76 and section 77 of the Act for the purpose of
ascertaining income, gain or profits arising in, derived or accruing from or losses incurred in any transaction, operation
or scheme entered into between two associated enterprises (hereinafter referred to as the controlled transaction)
should be calculated in accordance with the arm’s length principle. The arm’s length principle shall be understood as
that where a transaction between associated enterprises is carried out taking into account the terms and conditions
that would have been used in transactions with or between independent enterprises.
(I) The arm’s length price shall be determined by the application of the most appropriate method to the facts and
circumstances of the case from any of the methods outlined below:
(a) Comparable Uncontrolled Price Method
The comparable uncontrolled price method consists of comparing the price charged for property or services
transferred in a controlled transaction to the price charged for property or services transferred in a comparable
uncontrolled transaction.
Under this method,
(i) the price charged or paid for property transferred or services provided in a comparable uncontrolled
transaction, or a number of such transactions, is identified;
(ii) such price is adjusted to account for differences, if any between the controlled transaction and comparable
uncontrolled transactions or between the enterprises entering into such transactions, which could
materially affect the price in the open market;
(iii) the adjusted price so arrived at is taken to be an arm’s length price in respect of the property transferred
or services provided in the controlled transaction.
(b) Resale Price Method
The resale price method consists of comparing the resale margin that a purchaser of property in a controlled
transaction earns from reselling that property with the resale margin that is earned in comparable uncontrolled
purchase and resale transaction.
Under this method,
(i) the price at which property purchased by the tested enterprise from an associated enterprise is resold to
any person, is identified;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
3A
(ii) such resale price is reduced by an appropriate gross profit margin accruing to the tested enterprise based
on the gross profit margins that would be earned in comparable uncontrolled transactions, with or
between unrelated enterprises;
(iii) the price so arrived at is further reduced by the expenses incurred by the tested enterprise in connection
with the purchase of property;
(iv) the price so arrived at is adjusted to take into account the functional and other differences, including
differences in accounting practices, if any, between the controlled transaction and the comparable
uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises entering into such transactions, which could
materially affect the amount of gross profit margin in the open market;
(v) the adjusted price arrived at under sub-paragraph (iv) of this paragraph is taken to be an arm’s length
price in respect of the purchase of the property or obtaining by the tested enterprise from the associated
enterprise.
(c) Cost Plus Method
The cost plus method consists of comparing the mark-up on those costs directly and indirectly incurred in the
supply of property or services in a controlled transaction with the mark-up on those costs directly and indirectly
incurred in the supply of property or services in a comparable uncontrolled transaction.
Under this method,
(i) the direct and indirect costs of production incurred by the tested enterprise in respect of property
transferred or services provided to an associated enterprise, are determined;
(ii) the amount of an appropriate gross profit mark-up to such costs (computed according to the same
accounting norms) arising from the transfer or provision of the same or similar property or services by the
tested enterprise, or by an unrelated enterprise, in a comparable uncontrolled transaction, or a number of
such transactions, is determined;
(iii) the appropriate gross profit mark-up referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph is adjusted to take
into account the functional and other differences, if any, between the controlled transaction and the
comparable uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises entering into such transactions, which
could materially affect such profit mark-up in the open market;
(iv) the costs referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph are increased by the adjusted profit markup
arrived at under sub-paragraph (iii) of this paragraph;
(v) the sum so arrived at is taken to be an arm’s length price in relation to the supply of the property or
provision of services by the tested enterprise.
(d) Transactional Net Margin Method
The transactional net margin method consists of comparing the net profit margin relative to an appropriate
base, such as costs, sales or assets that a person achieves in a controlled transaction with the net profit margin
relative to the same base achieved in comparable uncontrolled transactions.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
4A
 Under this method,
(i) the net profit margin realized by the tested enterprise from a transaction entered into with an associated
enterprise is computed in relation to costs incurred or sales effected or assets employed by the tested
enterprise or having regard to any other relevant base;
(ii) the net profit margin realized by the tested enterprise or by an unrelated enterprise from a comparable
uncontrolled transaction or a number of such transactions is computed having regard to the same base;
(iii) the net profit margin referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph arising in comparable uncontrolled
transactions is adjusted to take into account the differences, if any, between the transaction and the
comparable uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises entering into such transactions, which
could materially affect the amount of net profit margin in the open market;
(iv) the net profit margin realized by the tested enterprise and referred to in sub- paragraph (i) of this paragraph
is established to be the same as the net profit margin referred to in sub-paragraph (iii) of this paragraph;
(v) the net profit margin thus established is then taken into account to arrive at an arm’s length price in
relation to the transaction.
(e) Profit Split Method
This method may be applicable mainly where special conditions have been made or imposed in controlled
transactions or in multiple transactions which are so interrelated that they cannot be evaluated separately for
the purpose of determining the arm’s length price of any transaction, by which
(i) the combined net profits of the associated enterprises arising from the transaction in which they are
engaged, are determined;
(ii) the relative contributions made by each of the associated enterprises to the earning of such combined net
profits are then calculated based upon a reasonable approximation of the division of profits that
independent enterprises would have expected to realize from engaging in comparable transactions on the
basis of the functions performed, assets employed and risks assumed by each enterprise;
(iii) the combined net profits are then split amongst the enterprises in proportion to their relative contributions;
(iv) the profits thus apportioned to the tested enterprise are taken into account to arrive at an arm’s length
price in relation to the controlled transaction.
Provided that the combined net profits referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph may, in the first
instance, be partially allocated to each enterprise so as to provide it with a basic return appropriate for the
type of routine functionality in which it is engaged, with reference to market returns achieved for similar
types of functions by independent enterprises, and thereafter, the residual net profit remaining after such
allocation may be split amongst the enterprises in proportion to their unique and valuable contributions,
and in such a case the aggregate of the net profit allocated to the tested enterprise in the first instance
together with the residual net profit apportioned to that tested enterprise on the basis of its unique and
valuable contributions shall be taken to be the net profit arising to that tested enterprise from the
controlled transaction.
Provided that where there are two or more independent transactions, all being equally comparable to the
controlled transaction entered into between associated enterprises, a range of prices or profit margins

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
5A
may be obtained derived from the application of the most appropriate method. This arm’s length range
shall be used to calculate the arm’s length price.
(II) Arm’s Length Range
An arm’s length range is a range of relevant financial indicator figures (e.g. prices or margins) produced by the
application of the most appropriate transfer pricing method as set out in this regulation, to a number of
uncontrolled transactions with a relatively equal degree of comparability to the controlled transaction based on
a comparability analysis conducted in accordance with Regulation 3. For the purpose of Regulation 2, the
interquartile range is considered to be the arm’s length range.
Where the actual price for a controlled transaction between associated enterprises is within the arm’s length
range, the actual price shall be treated as the arm’s length price for such transaction.
Where the actual price for a controlled transaction between associated enterprises is not within the arm’s
length range, the median in the arm’s length range shall be treated as the arm’s length price for such transaction.
For the purposes of this paragraph, the median of the arm’s length range shall be the 50th percentile of the
financial indicator figures derived from the comparable uncontrolled transactions forming the arm’s length
range.
3. Comparability Factors - For the purposes of Regulation 2, the comparability of a controlled transaction between
associated enterprises with uncontrolled transactions shall be judged with reference to the following:
(a) the contractual terms (whether or not such terms are formal or in writing) of the controlled transactions which
lay down explicitly or implicitly how the responsibilities, risks and benefits are to be divided between the
respective parties to such transactions;
(b) the functions performed, taking into account assets employed and the risks assumed, by the respective parties
to such transaction;
(c) the specific characteristics of the property transferred or services provided in such transaction;
(d) the economic circumstances and business strategies related to such transactions between associated enterprises,
specifying the conditions prevailing in the markets in which the respective associated enterprises to such
transactions operate, including the geographical location and size of the markets, the laws and Government
orders in force, costs of labour and capital in the markets, overall economic development and level of competition
and whether the markets are wholesale or retail, among other.
4. Comparability -An uncontrolled transaction shall be comparable to a controlled transaction, if:
(i) none of the differences, if any, between the transactions being compared, are likely to materially affect the
financial indicators being examined in the methodology (e.g price or profit margin); or
(ii) reasonably accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material effects of such differences.
The data to be used in analyzing the comparability of an uncontrolled transaction with a controlled transaction shall
be the data relating to the year of assessment in which such transaction has been entered into.
Provided that data relating to a period not being more than two years prior to such year of assessment may also be
considered if such data reveals facts which could have an influence on the determination of transfer prices in relation
to the transactions being compared.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
6A
5. Most appropriate method -
(a) For the purposes of Regulation 2, the most appropriate method shall be the method which is best suited to
the facts and circumstances of each particular controlled transaction between associated enterprises, and
which provides the most reliable measure of an arm’s length price in relation to such transaction.
(b) In selecting the most appropriate method, the following factors shall be taken into account, namely:
(i) the nature and class of such transaction based on the functions performed, the assets employed and risks
assumed by associated enterprises entering into such transaction;
(ii) the availability, coverage and reliability of data (in particular on uncontrolled comparable transactions)
necessary for the application of the method;
(iii) the degree of comparability existing between controlled transaction and the uncontrolled transactions;
(iv) the extent to which reliable and accurate adjustments can be made to account for differences, if any,
between controlled transaction and the comparable uncontrolled transactions.
6. Transfer Pricing Documentation and Disclosure Form - Enterprises carrying out controlled transactions with
associated enterprises subject to section 76 and/or 77 of the Act, as the case may be, must maintain documents and
submit information regarding controlled transactions, including information on those associated enterprises, as
follows.
(a) Preparing and maintaining Transfer Pricing Documentation
Enterprises carrying out controlled transactions with associated enterprises subject to section 76 and/or 77,
as the case may be, shall be responsible for preparing and maintaining transfer pricing documentation including:
(i) Local File referring specifically to material and controlled transactions of the local taxpayer, according
to Annexure I.
(ii) Master File containing standardised information relevant for all the members of a multinational group,
according to Annexure II.
(iii) Cou ntry-by-Country Report containing certain information relating to the global allocation of the
multinational group’s income and taxes paid together with certain indicators of the location of economic
activity within the group, according to Annexure III.
The Local File referred to in the above item (i) is to be prepared and maintained by those enterprises that
carry out aggregate controlled transactions with associated enterprises exceed Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR)
200 million for each year of assessment as recorded in the books of account. The local file must be prepared
in English in the case of international transactions. The local file should be kept available for a period of six
years from the end of the relevant year of assessment, and it should include the information specified in
Annexure I of this Regulation (The transaction here does not include dividend and granting or repayment of
loan Capital).
The Master File referred to in the above item (ii) is to be prepared and maintained by those enterprises that
have declared group revenue whose value exceeds 50 million Euro or its equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees for
each year of assessment as recorded in the books of account commencing from year of assessment 2020/
2021, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2104/4 dated December
31, 2018. The Master file which is maintained in English should include the information specified in Annexure
II of this Regulation.
The Country-by-Country Report referred to in above item (iii) is to be prepared and filed according to
paragraph (e) of this Regulation.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
7A
(b) Non requirement of maintaining fresh documents
Where any controlled transaction continues to have effect over more than one year of assessment, fresh
documentation need not be maintained separately in respect of each year of assessment, unless there is any
significant change in the nature or terms of such transaction, in the assumptions made, or in any other factor
which could influence the transfer price, and in case of such significant change, fresh documentation as may be
necessary under this Regulation shall be maintained bringing out the impact of change on the pricing of such
transaction.
In case the taxpayer’s operation reflects no significant change, the searches in databases for comparable
should be updated every three years instead of annually. Financial data for the comparable should nonetheless
be updated every year in order to apply the arm’s length principle reliably.
Notwithstanding the above, the substantial obligation of complying with the arm’s length principle in controlled
transactions with associated enterprises remains mandatory for all taxpayers and therefore, they shall be
required to substantiate on the basis of documents mentioned in above paragraph (a) or on the basis of any
other material available with them when the notice is sent to the taxpayer.
(c) Submission of Transfer Pricing Documentation
The transfer pricing documentation specified in Regulation 6(a)(i) and 6(a)(ii) shall be submitted by the taxpayer
within 60 calendar days of the written request being duly issued by the Commissioner General of Inland
Revenue (herein after referred to as Commissioner General).
The obligation of the taxpayer to provide this documentation is established without prejudice to the power of
the Commissioner General to request additional information that in the course of audit procedures it deems
necessary to carry out its functions.
(d) Preparation and Submission of Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form
Enterprises that carry out during a year assessment aggregate controlled transactions that exceed LKR
200 million with associated enterprises are obliged to prepare and file an annual transfer pricing disclosure form
along with the Return of Income as per the format disclosed in Annexure IV . Guideline for filling the form is
given in Annexure V.
(e) Submission of Country-by-Country Report (“CbCR”) by the ultimate parent entity according to Annexure III
(I) Definitions
For purposes of paragraph (e) of this regulation the following terms have the following meanings:
(i) The term “Group” means a collection of enterprises related through ownership or control such that
it is either required to prepare Consolidated Financial Statements for financial reporting purposes
under applicable accounting principles or would be so required if equity interests in any of the
enterprises were traded on a public securities exchange.
(ii) The term “MNE Group” means any Group that

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
8A
(a) includes two or more enterprises the tax residence for which is in different jurisdictions,
or includes an enterprise that is resident for tax purposes in one jurisdiction and is subject
to tax with respect to the business carried out through a permanent establishment in another
jurisdiction, and
(b) is not an Excluded MNE Group.
(iii) The term “Excluded MNE Group” means, with respect to any Fiscal Year of the Group, a Group
having total consolidated group revenue of less than 750 million Euro or its equivalent in Sri Lanka
Rupees during the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the Reporting Fiscal Year as reflected in its
Consolidated Financial Statements for such preceding Fiscal Year.
(iv) The term “Constituent Entity” means:
(a) any separate business entity of an MNE Group that is included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements of the MNE Group for financial reporting purposes, or would be so included if
equity interests in such business unit of an MNE Group were traded on a public securities
exchange;
(b) any such business entity that is excluded from the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial
Statements solely on size or materiality grounds; and
(c) any permanent establishment of any separate business entity of the MNE Group included in
(a) or (b) of above item (ii), provided the business entity prepares a separate financial statement
for such permanent establishment for financial reporting, regulatory, tax reporting, or internal
management control purposes.
(v) The term “Reporting Entity” means the Constituent Entity that is required to file a Country-
by-Country report conforming to the requirements specified in sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph
(e) of this regulation in its jurisdiction of tax residence on behalf of the MNE Group. The
Reporting Entity may be the Ultimate Parent Entity, the Surrogate Parent Entity, or any entity
described in item (ii) of sub paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of this regulation.
(vi) The term “Ultimate Parent Entity” means a Constituent Entity of an MNE Group that meets the
following criteria:
(a) it owns directly or indirectly a sufficient interest in one or more other Constituent Entities of
such MNE Group such that it is required to prepare Consolidated Financial Statements under
accounting principles generally applied in its jurisdiction of tax residence, or would be so
required if its equity interests were traded on a public securities exchange in its jurisdiction of
tax residence; and
(b) there is no other Constituent Entity of such MNE Group that owns directly or indirectly an
interest described in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (vi) above in the first mentioned
Constituent Entity.
(vii) The term “Surrogate Parent Entity” means one Constituent Entity of the MNE Group that has
been appointed by such MNE Group, as a sole substitute for the Ultimate Parent Entity, to file the
Country-by-Country Report in that Constituent Entity’s jurisdiction of tax residence, on behalf of
such MNE Group, when one or more of the conditions set out in numeral (b) of item (ii) of sub
paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of this regulation applies.
(viii) The term “Fiscal Year” means an annual accounting period with respect to which the Ultimate
Parent Entity of the MNE Group prepares its financial statements.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
9A
(ix) The term “Reporting Fiscal Year” means that Fiscal Year the financial and operational results
of which are reflected in the Country-by-Country Report defined in sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph
(e) of this regulation.
(x) The term “Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement” means an agreement that,
(a) is between authorised representatives of those jurisdictions that are parties to an International
Agreement, and
(b) requires the automatic exchange of Country-by-Country Reports between the parties to the
Agreement.
(xi) The term “International Agreement” shall mean any bilateral or multilateral Agreement for Mutual
Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, any bilateral or multilateral Tax Agreement, or any Tax
Information Exchange Agreement to which Sri Lanka is a party, and that by its terms provides legal
authority for the exchange of tax information between jurisdictions, including automatic exchange
of such information.
(xii) The term “Consolidated Financial Statements” means the financial statements of an MNE Group in
which the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows of the Ultimate Parent Entity and the
Constituent Entities are presented as those of a single economic entity.
(xiii) The term “Systemic Failure” with respect to a jurisdiction means that a jurisdiction has a Qualifying
Competent Authority Agreement in effect with Sri Lanka, but has suspended automatic exchange
(for reasons other than those that are in accordance with the terms of that Agreement) or otherwise
persistently failed to automatically provide to Sri Lanka Country-by-Country Reports in its
possession of MNE Groups that have Constituent Entities in Sri Lanka.
(II) Filing Obligation
(i) Each Ultimate Parent Entity of an MNE Group that is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka shall file a
Country-by-Country Report conforming to the requirements of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e) of
this regulation with the Commissioner General with respect to its Reporting Fiscal Year on or before the
date specified in sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of this regulation.
(ii) A Constituent Entity which is not the Ultimate Parent Entity of an MNE Group shall file a Country-by-
Country Report conforming to the requirements of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e) of this regulation
with the Commissioner General with respect to the Reporting Fiscal Year of an MNE Group of which it is
a Constituent Entity, on or before the date specified in sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of this regulation
if the following criteria are satisfied:
(a) the entity is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka, and
(b) one of the following conditions applies:
(aa)  the Ultimate Parent Entity of the MNE Group is not obligated to file a Country-by-Country
Report in its jurisdiction of tax residence; or,

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
10A
(bb) the jurisdiction in which the Ultimate Parent Entity is resident for tax purposes has a current
International Agreement to which Sri Lanka is a party but does not have a Qualifying Competent
Authority Agreement in effect to which Sri Lanka is a party by the time specified in sub-
paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of this regulation for filing the Country-by-Country Report for
the Reporting Fiscal Year; or
(cc) there has been a Systemic Failure of the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Ultimate Parent
Entity that has been notified by the Commissioner General to the Constituent Entity resident
for tax purposes in Sri Lanka.
(iii) Where there are more than one Constituent Entities of the same MNE Group that are resident for tax
purposes in Sri Lanka and one or more of the conditions set out in item (ii) above apply, the MNE Group
may designate one of such Constituent Entities to file the Country-by-Country Report conforming to the
requirements of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e) of this regulation with the Commissioner General
with respect to any Reporting Fiscal Year on or before the date specified in sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph
(e) of this regulation, and to notify the Commissioner General that the filing is intended to satisfy the filing
requirement of all the Constituent Entities of such MNE Group that are resident for tax purposes in Sri
Lanka.
(iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of item (ii) of sub-paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of this regulation, when
one or more of the conditions set out in sub-item (b) of item (ii) of sub-paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of
this regulation apply, an entity described in item (ii) of sub-paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of this regulation
shall not be required to file a Country-by- Country Report with the Commissioner General with respect to
any Reporting Fiscal Year if the MNE Group of which it is a Constituent Entity has made available a
Country-by-Country Report conforming to the requirements of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e) of
this regulation with respect to such Fiscal Year through a Surrogate Parent Entity that files that Country-
by-Country Report with the tax authority of its jurisdiction of tax residence on or before the date specified
in sub- paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of this regulation and that satisfies the following conditions:
(a) the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity requires filing of Country-by-Country
Reports confirming to the requirements of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e) of this regulation;
(b) the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity has a Qualifying Competent Authority
Agreement in effect to which Sri Lanka is a party by the time specified in sub-paragraph (V) of
paragraph (e) of this regulation for filing the Country-by-Country Report for the Reporting Fiscal
Year;
(c) the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity has not notified the Commissioner
General of a Systemic Failure;
(d) the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity has been notified in accordance with
item (i) of sub-paragraph (III) of paragraph (e) of this regulation by the Constituent Entity resident
for tax purposes in its jurisdiction that it is the Surrogate Parent Entity; and
(e) a notification has been provided to the Commissioner General in accordance with item (ii) of sub-
paragraph (III) of paragraph (e) of this regulation.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
11A
(III) Notification
(i) Any Constituent Entity of an MNE Group that is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka shall notify
Commissioner General whether it is the Ultimate Parent Entity or the Surrogate Parent Entity, no
later than December 3 l
st of the Reporting Fiscal Year of such MNE Group.
(ii) Where a Constituent Entity of an MNE Group that is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka is not the
Ultimate Parent Entity nor the Surrogate Parent Entity, it shall notify the Commissioner General of
the identity and tax residence of the Reporting Entity, no later than December 31
st of the Reporting
Fiscal Year of such MNE Group.
(IV) Country-by-Country Report
(i) For purposes of Paragraph (e) of this Regulation, a Country-by-Country Report with respect to an
MNE Group is a report containing:
(a) Aggregate information relating to the amount of revenue, profit (loss) before income tax,
income tax paid, income tax accrued, stated capital, accumulated earnings, number of
employees, and tangible assets other than cash or cash equivalents with regard to each
jurisdiction in which the MNE Group operates;
(b) An identification of each Constituent Entity of the MNE Group setting out the jurisdiction of
tax residence of such Constituent Entity, and where different from such jurisdiction of tax
residence, the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Constituent Entity is organized, and
the nature of the main business activity or activities of such Constituent Entity.
(ii) The Country-by-Country Report shall be filed in a form identical to and applying the definitions
and instructions contained in the standard template set out at Annexure III  of this Gazette
Notification.
(V) Time for filing
The Country-by-Country Report required by Paragraph (e) of this regulation shall be filed no later than 12
months after the last day of the Reporting Fiscal Year of the MNE Group.
(VI) Use and Preserve Confidentiality of Country-by-Country Report Information
(i) The Transfer Pricing Officers shall use the Country-by-Country Report for purposes of assessing
high-level transfer pricing risks and other Base Erosion and Profit Shifting related risks in Sri Lanka,
including assessing the risk of non-compliance by members of the MNE Group with applicable
transfer pricing rules, and where appropriate for economic and statistical analysis. Transfer pricing
adjustments by the Transfer Pricing Officers will not be based on the Country-by-Country Report.
(ii) The Commissioner General shall preserve the confidentiality of the information contained in the
Country-by-Country Report at least to the same extent that would apply if such information were
provided to it under the provisions of a double taxation agreement or a Mutual Administrative
Assistance Agreement entered in to under the Act.
(VII) Effective Date
For the purpose of Paragraph (e) of this Regulation is effective for Reporting Fiscal Years of MNE Groups
beginning on or after April 1, 2020,  notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the previous Gazette
Extraordinary No. 2104/4 dated December 31, 2018.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
12A
(f) Penal Provisions
Where any person who fails to comply with the requirements of section 76 and/or 77 in relation to any
controlled transaction with associated enterprises, the Commissioner General may impose on such person the
following penalties:
(i) Penalty on not preparing and maintaining Transfer Pricing Documentation -
Non preparing and non-maintaining of the transfer pricing documentation mentioned in Regulation 6 will
lead to penal provisions specified in section 184 of the Inland Revenue Act.
(ii) Penalty on Non submission of requested documents- Non submission of the required documents will lead
to penal provisions specified in section 184 of the said Act..
(iii) Penalty on Non-disclosure of any required information - Non disclosure of any required information will
lead to penal provisions specified in section 184 of the said Act.
(iv) Penalty on Non submission of documents prescribed in regulation 6 on or before the specified date - Non
submission of the documents prescribed in Regulation 6 on or before specified date will lead to penal
provisions specified in section 184 of the said Act.
(v) Penalty on concealment of the particulars or furnish inaccurate particulars -
concealment of the particulars of his income or furnished inaccurate particulars of such income will lead
to penal provisions specified in section 184 of the Act.
(vi) Apart from the penalties mentioned in section 184, the penalties specified in section 185 and criminal
proceedings specified in Chapter XV11I are applicable for transfer pricing.
7. Advance Pricing Agreements (APA) —With a view to supplement the traditional administrative, judicial and treaty
mechanisms for resolving transfer pricing issues, any person who has controlled international transactions can enter
into an Advance Pricing Agreement with the Commissioner General. An Advance Pricing Agreement determines, in
advance of specified international transactions with associated enterprises (i.e. the controlled transactions covered
by the agreement), an appropriate set of criteria (e.g. methodology, appropriate adjustments thereto, and critical
assumptions as to the future events) for the determination of the arm’s length price for those transactions over a fixed
period of time.
(a) The agreements can basically be divided into the following two categories:
(i) Unilateral Advance Pricing Agreements: Where by the Commissioner General and the taxpayer come into an
agreement with regard to a particular transaction between associated enterprises without involvement of other
interested tax administrations, though it may affect the tax liability of the associated enterprise in other tax
jurisdictions.
(ii) Bilateral / Multilateral Advance Pricing Agreements: Where by two or more tax authorities in different jurisdictions
come in to an agreement with regard to a particular transaction between associated enterprises. The bilateral or
multilateral approach is considered equitable to all tax administrations and taxpayers and provides greater
certainty to the taxpayer concerned.
(b) An Advance Pricing Agreement may be entered into between a taxpayer and the Commissioner-General in
respect of the arm’s length result of an international transaction with an associate enterprise.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
13A
(c) The Commissioner General may agree to enter into an advance pricing agreement on a unilateral basis or
through consultation with the competent authority of the country of residence of the associated enterprise
with which the transaction is to be entered into, provided that the country of residence is a country with which
Sri Lanka has a double taxation agreement.
(d) Where the Commissioner-General enters into an advance pricing agreement with a taxpayer, provided that the
terms and conditions set out in the advance pricing agreements are fully complied with, no adjustment will be
made by the Commissioner General under section 76 of the Inland Revenue Act to the transaction that is within
the scope of the APA.
(e) Advance Pricing Agreements shall have a validity not exceeding four years of assessments. Taxpayers shall
request for an agreement before the Commissioner General and may request modifications or its cancellation,
subject to the Commissioner General’s evaluation and approval. The Commissioner General will specify the
manner in which the Advance Pricing Agreement process shall operate by issuing an APA Guideline, which will
specify:
(aa) eligibility for application for an Advance Pricing Agreement;
(bb) term limits for Advance Pricing Agreements;
(cc) the application procedure and process;
(dd) annual compliance procedures for concluded Advance Pricing Agreements;
(ee) the conditions and procedures for revocation or cancellation of an Advance Pricing Agreement;
(ff) other requirements as may be necessary.
8. Associated Enterprises — For the purposes of sections76 and 77 of the Inland Revenue Act and for these regulations,
two enterprises shall be deemed to be associated enterprises, if, at any time during the year of assessment, any of the
following conditions is met.
(a) any person or enterprise holds, directly or indirectly, shares or otherwise carrying the majority of the voting
power in the other enterprise;
(b) any person or enterprise holds, directly or indirectly, shares carrying not less than fifty percent of the voting
power in each of such enterprise;
(c) loans advanced by one enterprise to another enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one percent of the book
value of the total assets of the other enterprise provided that it is not given by a financial institution which is
not considered as an associated enterprise under any other item of this regulation;
(d) Loans and equity provided by one enterprise to another enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one percent of
the book value of the total assets of the other enterprise provided that it is not given by a financial institution
which is not considered as an associated enterprise under any other item of this regulation;
(e) one enterprise guarantees not less than twenty five percent of the total borrowings of the other enterprise;
(f) more than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or more executive
directors or executive members of the governing board of one enterprise, are appointed by the other enterprise;

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
14A
(g) more than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or more of the executive
directors or members of the governing board, of each of the two enterprises are appointed by the same person
or persons;
(h) ninety percent or more of the raw materials, semi-finished goods and consumables required for the manufacture
or processing of goods or articles carried out by one enterprise, or of purchases required for the sale, are
supplied by the other enterprise, or by persons specified by the other enterprise, and the prices and other
conditions relating to the supply are influenced by such other enterprise;
(i) the goods or articles manufactured or processed by one enterprise are sold/ transferred to another enterprise or
to persons specified by the enterprise, and the prices and other conditions relating thereto are influenced by
such enterprise or vice versa;
(j) where one enterprise is controlled by an individual or jointly by such individual and his relative, and the other
enterprise is controlled by such individual or his relative or jointly by such individual and his relative or jointly
by relatives of such individual;
(k) where one enterprise is a firm, association of persons or body of individuals, the other enterprise holds not less
than ten percent interest in such firm, association of persons or body of individuals, or
(1) where the controlled transaction differs from the transactions that would have been made or imposed by any
person not directly participating in the management, control or capital as mentioned in section 76 or 77, but
confers a potential advantage to the enterprise.
9. Corresponding adjustments for domestic transactions - Where an adjustment is made under section77 of the Act to
the taxable income of a taxpayer in relation to a domestic transaction, no tax adjustment would be made to the taxable
income of the other party to the transaction.
Where the total income of an associated enterprise is computed on the arm’s length price, which is determined under
the provisions of section 77 of the Act and paid to another associated enterprise from which tax has been deducted
[or is deductible] the income of other associated enterprise shall not be recomputed by reason of such determination
of arm’s length price in the case of the first mentioned enterprise.
10. Corresponding adjustments to prevent double taxation in the case of international transactions
(1) Where -
(a) an adjustment to the  control transactions between a taxpayer resident in Sri Lanka and an associated
enterprise is made or proposed by a tax administration in a country other than Sri Lanka, and
(b) this adjustment results in the taxation in that other country of an amount of income on which the taxpayer
resident in Sri Lanka has already been charged to tax in Sri Lanka; and
(c) the country making or proposing the adjustment has a Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement with Sri
Lanka that reflects an intention to provide for the relief of economic double taxation,
the adjustment should be made subject to the provisions of such agreement and subject to following paragraphs.
(2) The Commissioner General shall, after a request is made by the taxpayer resident in Sri Lanka, examine the
consistency of that adjustment with the arm’s length principle provided for under section 76, consulting as
necessary with the competent authority of the other country.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
15A
(3) If the adjustment proposed or made by the other country is consistent with the arm’s length principle both in
principle and as regards the amount, the Commissioner General shall make a corresponding adjustment to the
amount of the tax charged in Sri Lanka to that person on those profits, in order to eliminate the economic double
taxation that would result from the inclusion of the same profits in the taxable income of both that taxpayer and
the associated enterprise.
(4) A request under Regulation 10 must include the information necessary for the Commissioner General to examine
the consistency of the adjustment made by the tax administration of the other country with the arm’s length
principle, including -
(a) the name, registered address and, where applicable, trading name(s) of the associated enterprise(s);
(b) evidence of the tax residence of the associated enterprise(s);
(c) the year(s) in which the adjusted transaction(s) with the associated enterprise(s) took place;
(d) the amount of the requested corresponding adjustment and the amounts of the adjustment made by the
tax administration of the other country;
(e) evidence of the adjustment made by the tax administration of the other country and the basis for the
adjustment, including details of comparability analysis relied upon and the transfer pricing method
applied;
(f) confirmation that the associated enterprise(s) will not, or is unable to, pursue any further recourse under
the domestic law of the other country that may result in the adjustment made by the tax administration of
the other country being reduced or reversed;
(g) any other information that may be relevant for examining the consistency of the adjustment with the arm’s
length principle.
(5) The request must be made within the applicable time period for making a request for the case to be resolved by
way of the mutual agreement procedure under the applicable tax treaty.
Annexure I
Transfer pricing documentation - Local File
The following information shall be included in the local file:
Part A - Local entity
• A description of the ownership structure of the local entity with details of shares or other ownership interest held
therein by other enterprises.
• A description of the management structure of the local entity, a local organization chart, and a description of the
individuals to whom local management reports and the country(ies) in which such individuals maintain their principal
offices.
• A detailed description of the business and business strategy pursued by the local entity including an indication
whether the local entity has been involved in or affected by intangibles transfers in the present or immediately past
year and an explanation of those aspects of such transactions affecting the local entity.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
16A
• A description of important business restructuring transactions, acquisitions and divestitures occurring during the
year of assessment.
• A record of economic and market analysis, forecasts, budgets or any other financial estimates prepared by the local
entity for the business as a whole and for each division or product separately, which may have a bearing on the
controlled transactions entered into.
• Key competitors.
Part B - Controlled Transactions
For aggregate value of each category of controlled transactions in which the entity is involved is more than LKR 200 million
for the particular year of assessment, the following information shall be provided.
• description of the controlled transactions (e.g. procurement of manufacturing services, purchase of goods, provision
of services, loans, financial and performance guarantees, licenses of intangibles, etc.) and the context in which such
transactions take place.
• The amount of intra-group payments and receipts for each category of controlled transactions involving the local
entity (i.e. payments and receipts for products, services, royalties, interest, etc.), and in the case of international
transactions, broken down by tax jurisdiction of the foreign payer or recipient.
• An identification of associated enterprises involved in each category of controlled transactions, and the relationship
amongst them.
• Copies of intercompany agreements concluded by the local entity.
• A detailed comparability and functional analysis of the taxpayer and relevant associated enterprises with respect to
each category of controlled transactions, including any changes compared to prior years.
• The assumptions, policies and price negotiations, if any, which have critically affected the determination of the arm’s
length price.
• An indication of the most appropriate transfer pricing method with regard to the category of transaction and the
reasons for selecting that method.
• An indication of which associated enterprise is selected as the tested enterprise, if applicable, and an explanation of
the reasons for this selection.
• A summary of the important assumptions made in applying the transfer pricing methodology.
• If relevant, an explanation of the reasons for performing a multi-year analysis.
• A list and description of selected comparable uncontrolled transactions (internal or external), if any, and information
on relevant financial indicators for independent enterprises relied on in the transfer pricing analysis, including a
description of the comparable search methodology and the source of such information.
• A description of any comparability adjustments performed, and an indication of whether adjustments have been made
to the results of the tested enterprise, the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or both.
• A description of the reasons for concluding that relevant transactions were priced on an arm’s length basis based on
the application of the selected transfer pricing method.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
17A
• A summary of financial information used in applying the transfer pricing methodology.
• A copy of existing unilateral and bilateral/multilateral APAs and other tax rulings to which the local tax jurisdiction is
not a party and which are related to controlled transactions described above.
• Any other information, data or document, including information or data relating to the associated enterprises, which
may be relevant for determination of the arm’s length price.
Part C - Financial information and supporting documents
• Annual local entity financial accounts for the fiscal year concerned. If audited statements exist, they should be
supplied and if not, existing unaudited statements should be supplied.
• Information and allocation schedules showing how the financial data used in applying the transfer pricing method
may be tied to the annual financial statements.
• Summary schedules of relevant financial data for comparables used in the analysis and the sources from which that
data was obtained.
• Official publications, reports, studies and data bases from the Government of the country of residence of the associated
enterprises, or of any other country which are relevant to the case.
• Reports of market research studies carried out and technical publications, data bases brought out by institutions of
national or international repute.
• Price publications including stock exchange and commodity market quotations.
• Letters and other correspondence documenting any terms negotiated between the taxpayer and the associated
enterprise.
• Documents normally issued in connection with various transactions under the accounting practices followed.
Annexure II
Transfer pricing documentation - Master File
The following information shall be included in the master file:
Part A - Organisational structure
• Chart illustrating the MNE’s legal and ownership structure and geographical location of operating entities.
Part B - Description of MNE’s business(es)
• General written description of the MNE’s business including:
- Important drivers of business profit;
- A description of the supply chain for the group’s five largest products and/or service offerings by turnover
plus any other products and/or services amounting to more than 5 percent of group turnover. The required
description could take the form of a chart or a diagram;

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
18A
- A list and brief description of important service arrangements between members of the MNE group, other
than research and development (R&D) services, including a description of the capabilities of the principal
locations providing important services and transfer pricing policies for allocating services costs and
determining prices to be paid for intra-group services;
- A description of the main geographic markets for the group’s products and services that are referred to in the
second bullet point above;
- A brief written functional analysis describing the principal contributions to value creation by individual entities
within the group, i.e. key functions performed, important risks assumed, and important assets used;
- A description of important business restructuring transactions, acquisitions and divestitures occurring during
the fiscal year.
Part C - MNE’s Intangibles
• A general description of the MNE’s overall strategy for the development, ownership and exploitation of intangibles,
including location of principal R&D facilities and location of R&D management.
• A list of intangibles or groups of intangibles of the MNE group that are important for transfer pricing purposes and
which entities legally own them.
• A list of important agreements among identified associated enterprises related to intangibles, including cost contribution
arrangements, principal research service agreements and license agreements.
• A general description of the group’s transfer pricing policies related to R&D and intangibles.
• A general description of any important transfers of interests in intangibles among associated enterprises during the
fiscal year concerned, including the entities, countries, and compensation involved.
Part D - MNE’s Intercompany Financial  Activities
• A general description of how the group is financed, including important financing arrangements with unrelated
lenders.
• The identification of any members of the MNE group that provide a central financing function for the group, including
the country under whose laws the entity is organized and the place of effective management of such entities.
• A general description of the MNE’s general transfer pricing policies related to financing arrangements between
associated enterprises.
Part E - MNE’s Financial and Tax Positions
• The MNE’s annual consolidated financial statement for the fiscal year concerned if otherwise prepared for financial
reporting, regulatory, internal management, tax or other purposes.
• A list and brief description of the MNE group’s existing unilateral Advance Pricing Agreements (APAs) and other tax
rulings relating to the allocation of income among countries.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
19A
Annexure 111 - Country-by-Country Report Template
The following is the template of the Country-by-Country Report:
Table 1. Overview of allocation of income, taxes and business activities by tax jurisdiction
Name of the MNE Group:
Fiscal year concerned:
Currency used:
Tax
Jurisdiction
Unrelated
Party
Related
Party
Total
Revenue Profit
(Loss)
before
Income
Tax
Income
Tax
(on Cash
Basis)
Income
Tax
Accured -
Current
Year
Stated
Capital
Accumulated
Earnings
Number of
Employees
Tangible Assets
other than
Cash and
Cash
Equivalents

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
20A
Table 2. List of all the Consituent Entities of the MNE group included in each aggregation per tax jurisdiction
Name of the MNE Group:
Fiscal year concerned:
Tax
Jurisdiction
Constituent Entities
Resident in the Tax
Jurisdictioin
Tax Jurisdiction of
Organisation or
Incorporation if Different
from Tax Jurisdiction of
Residence
Research and  Development
Holding or Managing
Intellectual Property
Purchasing or Procurement
Manufacturing or Production
Sales, Marketing or Distribution
Administrative, Management
or Support Services
Provision of Services
to Unrelated Parties
Internal Group Finance
Regulated Financial Services
Insurance
Holding Shares or Other Equity
Instruments
Dormant
Other
Main Business Activity (ies)

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
21A
Table 3. Additional Information
Name of the MNE Group:
Fiscal year concerned:

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
22A
Annexure IV
Asmt_TPDF_01_E
Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form
Year of Assessment......................
In terms of paragraph (d) of Regulation 6 of this Gazette Notification issued under section 76, 77 and 194 of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017.
Refer “Guide to Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form” in Annexure V before filing this Form.
Part A: Taxpayer Information
PARTICULARS  OF  THE  PERSON   MAKING  THIS  DISCLOSURE:
A1: Name:
A2: Address:
A3: Company Incorporation /
       Partnership Registration Number:
A4: Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)
A5: Telephone:
A6: E-mail Address:
A7: Web Address:
City:
Postal Code:
State:
Country:

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
23A
Part B: Transactions with Associated Enterprises
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Item T ransaction Item Associated T P Arm’s Length Price
No. Enterprise (AE) Methodology
Category of Name of AE TP Method Comparable
Transactions price/margin
Amount of Associated Profit Level AL Range-Max
Transaction (in LKR) enterprise’s TIN Indicator
For loans, principal Country of Price/Profit AL Range-Med
amount residence Margin/Rate
For loans, ending Criteria of T ested AL Range-Min
balance Associated Enterprise
Enterprise
Declaration
(to be completed by a Director/Principal Officer/Precedent Partner/Proprietor)
I,
with Identity Card No./Passport
No. * (*delete appropriately)
hereby declare that this form contains information that is true, correct and complete as at.... /............/..................................,
Designation
Signature
Date
For Office use only
Date
Name of the
Officer
Designation
Signature
(DD/MM/YY)

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
24A
Annexure V
Asmt_TPDF_02_E
Guide to Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form
Year of Assessment..............
Introduction
In terms of Regulation 6 of the Transfer Pricing Regulations it is required that enterprises having “international transactions”,
or “transactions other than international transactions” made between associated enterprises who fulfil the requirements of
Regulation 1 and that carry out during a year assessment aggregate control transactions that exceed LKR 200 million with
associated enterprises, must submit a Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form (hereinafter referred to as, “TPDF”) along with the
Return of Income Tax.
A Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form which is the means whereby an enterprise subject to the transfer pricing rules in Sri
Lanka, as specified by sections 76 and 77 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 (hereinafter referred to as, IRA) and this
Regulations, provides the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue with certain information regarding the transactions
carried out with associated enterprises (control transactions) during the year of assessment. The late or inaccurate filing or
no filing would subject to the penalties specified in section 184 of the IRA.
Who must file the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form ?
According to Regulation 6, the TPDF is to be prepared and filed annually, along with the Return of Income, by those
enterprises that carry out during a year assessment aggregate control transactions that exceed LKR 200 million with associated
enterprises subject to section 76 and/or 77, as the case may be.
For filling Part B of the TPDF the following conditions apply:
• all Columns (Columns I to IV) of Part B of the TPDF should be filled in relation to any category of such control
transactions that exceed LKR 200 million for the year of assessment.
• in case of any category of such control transactions not exceeding LKR 200 million for the year of assessment, only
Column 1 and II of Part B to be filled.
The Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form must be filed as per the format disclosed in Annexure IV of this Regulations.
When is the deadline to file the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form ?
According to Regulation 6 of this Regulations, the TPDF is to be filed annually, along with the Return of Income.
Commissioner General may give instructions in the Return of Income on how to file the TPDF.
Contents of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form
An explanation of each and every section and cage, as well as numerical examples, is provided below. The Transfer Pricing
Disclosure Form comprises four columns that allow for the identification of:
1. The category of transactions carried out,
2. The associated enterprises with which those transactions were carried out,

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
25A
3. The transfer pricing methodology used to test those transactions (only for cases where the aggregate amount of the
transactions exceed Sri Lankan Rupees 200 million), and
4. The comparable arm’s length price or range, according to the use of the methodology.
Part B of the TPDF has the following format :
Column I Column II Column III Column IV
Item T ransaction Associated T P Arm’s Length Price
No. Enterprise Methodology
Category of Name of Associated TP Method Comparable
Transaction Enterprise Price/Margin
Amount of Associated Profit Level AL Range-Max
Transaction (in LKR) Enterprise’s Indicator
Tax Indentification
Number (TIN)
For loans, Amount of Country of Price/Profit AL Range-Med
principal Residence Margin/Rate
For loans, ending Criteria of T ested AL Range-Low
balance Associated Enterprise
Enterprise
Below is an explanation of each column and cage:
Column I - Transaction: This section provides the detail of the transactions carried out with every associated enterprise
during the year of assessment. In this section, enterprises must provide information about all the transactions they carried
out with associated enterprises during the year of assessment. Transactions are those that have an impact on the revenues
/ deductions of the Sri Lankan entities. This column has four cages, where Sri Lankan enterprises must disclose the following
information:
• Category of Transaction: Disclose the transaction codes of each particular category of transaction carried out with
each associated enterprise during the reported year of assessment. Transaction codes are provided in Annexure VI.
• Amount of Transaction (in LKR): Disclose the value in LKR of each particular category of transaction carried out
with each associated enterprise.
• For loans, Amount of Principal: If the transaction at the “Category of Transaction” cage relates to interest receipts
or payments, disclose the amount of the accounting balance of the principal received or provided through a loan at
the beginning of the fiscal year.
• For loans, Ending Balance: If the transaction at the “Category of Transaction” cage relates to interest receipts or
payments, disclose the amount of the accounting balance of the principal received or provided through a loan at the
end date of the fiscal year.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
26A
Column II - Associated Enterprise: This section provides the detail of the associated enterprises with which transactions
were carried out during the year of assessment. In this section, taxpayer must provide information about the associated
enterprises with which transactions were carried out during the year of assessment. This column has four cages, where
taxpayer must disclose the following information:
• Name of Associated Enterprise : Disclose the complete name of the associated enterprise.
• Associated Enterprise’s Tax Identification Number : Disclose the tax identification number that the associated
enterprise utilizes in its country of residence for income tax purposes.
• Country of Residence : Disclose the code for country of residence of the associated enterprise as provided in
Annexure XI.
• Criteria of Associated Enterprises : Disclose the code for the category of association criteria. Association criteria
codes are provided in Annexure VII of this Guide.
Column III - TP Methodology: This section provides the detail of the transfer pricing methodology selected by the taxpayer
in the analysis of the transactions carried out with associated enterprises during the year of assessment. In this section, Sri
Lankan enterprises must provide information about the transfer pricing methodology used to evaluate the transactions
carried out with associated enterprises during the year of assessment. This column has four cages, where Sri Lankan
enterprises must disclose the following information:
• TP Method: Disclose the transfer pricing method selected to analyse the disclosed transaction. Transfer pricing
method codes are provided in Annexure VIII.
• Profit Level Indicator: Disclose the profit level indicator selected to analyse the disclosed transaction. Profit level
indicator codes are provided in Annexure IX.
• Price/Profit Margin/Rate: Disclose the price, profit margin or rate arrived or derived from the application of transfer
pricing methodology to the disclosed transaction. Include two (2) decimal places.
• Tested Enterprise: Disclose the party to the transaction that has been selected as the tested one for the disclosed
transaction. Tested enterprise codes are provided in Annexure X. When selecting the Comparable Uncontrolled Price
Method in the “TP Method” cage, select Code 01.
Column IV - Arm’s Length Price: This section provides the detail of the result of the application of the transfer pricing
methodology to the transactions carried out with associated enterprises during the year of assessment. In this section, Sri
Lankan enterprises must provide information about the results of the application of the transfer pricing methodology used to
evaluate the transactions carried out with associated enterprises during the year of assessment. This column has four cages,
where Sri Lankan enterprises must disclose the following information:
• Comparable Price/Margin: In case there is only one comparable price or margin, disclose its value. Include two (2)
decimal places.
• AL Range - 75
th Percentile : Disclose as the maximum/upper limit of the calculated arm’s length range. Include
two (2) decimal places.
• AL Range - Median : Disclose as the median of the calculated arm’s length range. Include two (2) decimal places.
• AL Range - 25 th Percentile: Disclose as the minimum/lower limit of the calculated arm’s length range. Include
two (2) decimal places.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
27A
 Enterprises that are liable to submit TPDF must complete Part B for each category of transaction carried out with
each associated enterprise (there should be a separate information item). All  transactions with associated enterprises
must be disclosed in the TPDF.
The following conditions apply:
• all Columns (Columns I to IV) of Part B of the TPDF should be filled in relation to any category of such control
transactions that exceed LKR 200 million for the year of assessment.
• in case of any category of such control transactions not exceeding LKR 200 million for the year of assessment, only
Column 1 and II of Part B of the TPDF to be filled.
Guidance and examples on the completion of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form
The following section illustrates the way to complete the TPDF. The example presents Sri Lankan enterprise (Company A)
that carried out several transaction categories with different associated entities during a year of assessment. This example
shows the way the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form must be completed, according to those transactions and their aggregated
amounts:
List of Transactions with Associated Entities :
Transaction Name of Associated Category of Transaction Transaction Quantum of
Category Entities Code each
No. Transaction
 (in LKR)
1. Company 1 (India) Sale of produced inventories 01 400,000,000
1. Company 2 (China) Sale of produced inventories 01 15,000,000
1. Company 3 (France) Sale of produced inventories 01 6,000,000
2. Company 2 (China) Purchase of non- produced inventories 28 58,000,000
3. Company 4 (Pakistan) Purchase of produced inventories (for distribution) 27 176,000,000
3. Company 5 (Nepal) Purchase of produced inventories (for distribution) 27 26,000,000
4. Company 1 (India) Payment of administrative services 30 51,000,000
5. Company 3 (France) Receipt of technical services 06 220,000,000
6. Company 6 (Luxembourg) Payment of interest on loans 39 300,000,000
6. Company 1 (India) Payment of interest on loans 39 60,000,000
7. Company 7 (Nepal) Receipt of Royalties 22 250,000,000
8. Company 8 (Sri Lanka-BOI) Payment of technical assistance 31 199,000,000
TOTAL 1,761,000,000

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
28A
The transactions categories identified, and their aggregate annual values are the following:
1. Sale of produced inventories (Category of transaction code No. 01 The total value of this transaction category (sales
to associated enterprises in India, China and France) was LKR 421,000,000, which exceeds the LKR 200 million
threshold. Therefore, an economic analysis including comparability and transfer pricing methodology must be
performed. All four columns of the TPDF (information on the Transaction, Associated Enterprise, TP Methodology
and Arm’s length price) must be completed for each related party. The economic analysis needs to be in accordance
with the arm’s length principle.
For purposes of the example, suppose this transaction category was tested using a Transactional Net Margin
Method, and using a Return on Total Costs (ROTC) as the profit level indicator. When calculating the ROTC of
Company A (the tested party), the result was 3.15%. The calculation of the ROTC of the comparable companies
provided an arm’s length range of ROTC that varies from 1.06% to 6.50%, with a median of 4.10%. The way to include
these transactions in the TPDF is shown in items 1, 2 and 3 below.
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III            COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price
Category of 01 Name of Associated Company 1 TP Method TNMM Comparable
Transaction Enterprise Price / Range
Amount of 400,000,000 Associated 11111111 Profit Level ROTC AL Range - 6.50%
Transaction Enterprise’s TIN  Indicator Max (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
1
For loans, Country of residence IND Price / Profit 3.15% AL Range - Med 4.10%
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 1.06%
ending balance Enterprise Enterprise  (25 th Percentile)
Category of 01 Name of associated Company 2 TP Method TNMM Comparable Price /
Transaction Enterprise Range
Amount of 15,000,000 Associated 22222222 Profit Level ROTC AL Range - Max 6.50%
Transaction Enterprise’s TIN Indicator (7 5th Percentile)
(in LKR)
2
For loans, Country of Residence CHN Price / Profit 3.15% AL Range - Med 4.10%
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 1.06%
ending balance Enterprise Enterprise (25th Percentile)
Category of 01 Name of Associated Company 3 TP Method TNMM Comparable Price /
Transaction Enterprise Range
Amount of 6,000,000 Associated 33333333 Profit Level ROTC AL Range - Max 6.50%
Transaction Enterprise’s TIN Indicator  (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
3 For loans, Country of Residence FRA Price / Profit 3.15% AL Range - Med 4.10%
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 1.06%
ending balance Enterprise E nterprise  (25th Percentile)

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
29A
2. Purchase of non- produced inventories (Category of transaction code No. 28): The total value of this transaction
category (purchases of raw material from an associated enterprise in China) was LKR 58,000,000, which does not
exceed the LKR 200 million threshold. Therefore, there is no need to prepare an economic analysis. Only columns
I and II of the TPDF (information on the Transaction and Associated Enterprise) must be completed. The way to
include this transaction in the TPDF is in item 4 below.
Category of 28 Name of Associated Company 2 TP Method Comparable Price /
Transaction Enterprise Range
Amount of 58,000,000 Associated 22222222 Profit level AL Range - Max
Transaction Enterprise’s TIN Indicator (75
th Percentile)
(in LKR)
4
For loans, Country of Residence CHN Price / Profit AL Range - Med
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 Tested Enterprise AL Range - Low
ending balance Enterprise (25
th Percentile)
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III            COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price
3. Purchase of produced inventories (for distribution) (Category of transaction code No. 27): The total value of this
transaction category (purchases from associated enterprises in Pakistan and Nepal) was LKR 202,000,000, which
exceeds the LKR 200 million threshold . Therefore, an economic analysis including comparability and transfer
pricing methodology must be performed. All four columns of the TPDF (information on the Transaction, Associated
Enterprise, TP Methodology and Arm’s length price) must be completed. The economic analysis needs to be in
accordance with the arm’s length principle.
For purposes of the example, suppose this transaction category was tested using a Resale Price Method, and using
a Gross Margin (GM) as the profit level indicator, when calculating the GM of Company A (the tested party), the result
was 22.33%. The calculation of the GM of the comparable companies provided an arm’s length range of GM that
varies from 27.27% to 29.29%, with a median of 28.28%. The way to include these transactions in the TPDF is shown
in items 5 and 6 below.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
30A
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III            COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price
Category of 27 Name of associated Company 4 TP Method RPM Comparable Price /
Transaction Enterprise Range
5 Amount of 176,000,000 Associated 4444444 Profit Level GM AL Range - Max 29.29%
Transaction Enterprise’s TIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of Residence PAK Price / Profit 22.33% AL Range - Med 28.28%
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 Tested 01 AL Range - Low 27.27%
ending balance Enterprise Enterprise  (25 th Percentile)
Category of 27 Name of associated Company 5 TP Method RPM Comparable Price /
Transaction Enterprise Range
6 Amount of 26,000,000 Associated 55555555 Profit Level GM AL Range - Max 29.29%
Transaction Enterprise’s TIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of Residence NPL Price / Profit 22.33% AL Range - Med 28.28%
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 05 Tested 01 AL Range - Low 27.27%
ending balance Enterprise Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
4. Payment of administrative services (Category of transaction code No. 30): The total value of this transaction
category (payment of services to an associated enterprise in India) was LKR 51,000,000, which does not exceed the
LKR 200 million threshold. Therefore, there is no need to prepare an economic analysis. Only columns I and II of the
TPDF (information on the Transaction and Associated Enterprise) must be completed. The way to include this
transaction in the TPDF is in item 7 below.
Category of 30 Name of Associated Company 1 TP Method Comparable Price /
Transaction Enterprise Range
Amount of 51,000,000 Associated 11111111 Profit Level AL Range - Max
Transaction Enterprise’s TIN Indicator (75
th Percentile)
(in LKR)
7
For loans, Country of Residence IND Price / Profit AL Range - Med
amountof Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 Tested AL Range - Low
ending balance Enterprise Enterprise (25
th Percentile)
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III            COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
31A
5. Receipt of technical services (Category of transaction code No. 06): The total value of this transaction category
(receipt of technical services from associated enterprises in France) was LKR 220,000,000, which exceeds the LKR200
million threshold. Therefore, an economic analysis including comparability and transfer pricing methodology must
be performed. All four columns of the TPDF (information on the Transaction, Associated Enterprise, TP Methodology
and Arm’s length price) must be completed. The economic analysis needs to be in accordance with the arm’s length
principle.
For purposes of the example, suppose this transaction category was tested using a Cost Plus Method, and using a
Gross Mark-up (GMk) as the profit level indicator, when calculating the GMk of Company A (the tested party), the
result was 10.00%. The calculation of the GMk of the comparable companies provided an arm’s length range of GMk
that varies from 8.00% to 12.00%, with a median of 10.00%. The way to include this transaction in the TPDF is shown
in item 8 below.
Category of 06 Name ofAssociated Company3 TP Method CPM Comparable Price/
Transaction Enterprise Range
Amount of 220,000,000 Associated 33333333 Profit Level GMK AL Range - Max 12.00%
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator (75
th Percentile)
8 (in LKR)
For loans, Country of FRA Price/Profit 10.00% AL Range - Med 10.00%
amount of Residence Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 8.00%
ending Enterprise Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
balance
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price
6. Payment of interest on loans (Category of transaction code No. 39): The total value of this transaction category
(payment of interest to associated enterprises in Luxembourg and India) was LKR 360,000,000, which exceeds the
LKR 200 million threshold. Therefore, an economic analysis including comparability and transfer pricing methodology
must be performed. All four columns of the TPDF (information on the Transaction, Associated Enterprise, TP
Methodology and Arm’s length price) must be completed. The economic analysis needs to be in accordance with the
aim’s length principle.
For purposes of the example, and since the economic analysis needs to be in accordance with the arm’s length
principle, each loan was evaluated separately because each one related to different terms and conditions. Each
transaction was tested using a Comparable Uncontrolled Price Method:
• For the loan with Company 6 in Luxembourg, the agreed interest rate was 12.00%. Comparable loan agreements
were identified, providing for an arm’s length range of interest rates that varies from 8.00% to 12.00%, with a
median of 10.00%. The way to include this transaction in the TPDF is in item 9 below.
• For the loan with Company 1 in India, the agreed interest rate was 20.00%. Comparable loan agreements were
identified, providing for an arm’s length range of interest rates that varies from 7.00% to 10.00%, with a median
of 9.00%. The way to include this transaction in the TPDF is in item 10 below.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
32A
Category of 39 Name of associated Company 6 TP Method CUP Comparable Price/
Transaction Enterprise Range
Amount of 300,000,000 Associated 66666666 Profit Level Other AL Range - Max 12.00%
Transaction Enterprise’s TIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
9 (in LKR)
For loans, 2,000,000,000 Country of LUX Price / Profit 12.00% AL Range - Med 10.00%
amount of Residence Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, 2,000,000,000 Criteria of Associated 02 Tested Enterprise 01 AL Range - Low 8.00%
ending balance Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
Category of 39 Name of Associated Company l TP Method CUP Comparable Price /
Transaction Enterprise Range
Amount of 60,000,000 Associated 11111111 Profit Level Other AL Range - Max 10.00%
Transaction Enterprise’s TIN Indicator (7S th Percentile)
10 (in LKR)
For loans, Country of Residence IND Price / Profit 20.00% AL Range - Med 9.00%
amount of principal Margin / Rate
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 7.00%
ending balance Enterprise Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price
7. Receipt of royalties (Category of transaction code No. 22): The total value of this transaction category (receipt of
royalties from an associated enterprise in Nepal) was LKR 250,000,000, which exceeds the LKR 200 million threshold.
Therefore, an economic analysis including comparability and transfer pricing methodology must be performed. All
four columns of the TPDF (information on the Transaction, Associated Enterprise, TP Methodology and Arm’s
length price) must be completed. The economic analysis needs to be in accordance with the arm’s length principle.
For purposes of the example, this transaction was tested using a Comparable Uncontrolled Price Method. The agreed
royalty rate was 4.50%. Comparable agreements were identified, providing for an arm’s length range of royalty rates
that varies from 4.00% to 6.00%, with a median of 5.00%. The way to include this transaction in the TPDF is in item 11
below.
Category of 22 N ame of Company7 TP Method CUP Comparable Price /
Transaction associated Enterprise Range
11 Amount of 250,000,000 Associated 77777777 Profit Level Other AL Range - Max 6.00%
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of Residence NPL Price / Profit 4.50% AL Range - Med 5.00%
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 4.00%
ending balance Enterprise Enterpris (25 th Percentile)
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
33A
8. Payment of technical assistance (Category of transaction code No. 31): The total value of this transaction category
(payment of services to an associated enterprise in Sri Lanka - a BOI company) was LKR 199,000,000, which does not
exceed the LKR 200 million threshold. Therefore, there is no need to prepare an economic analysis. Only columns
I and II of the TPDF (information on the Transaction and Associated Enterprise) must be completed. The way to
include this transaction in the TPDF is in item 12 below.
Category of 31 Name of Associated Company8 TP Method Comparable Price /
Transaction Enterprise Range
12 Amount of 199,000,000 Associated 88888888 Profit Level AL Range - Max
Transaction Enterprise’s TIN Indicator (75
th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of LKA Price / Profit AL Range - Med
amount of Residence Margin /Rate
principal
For loans,
ending balance Criteria of Associated 02 Tested Enterprise AL Range - Low
Enterprise (25th Percentile)
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price
In summary, the complete TPDF of Company A for the particular year of assessment will be as presented below:
COMPANY A’s TRANSFER PRICING DISCLOSURE FORM
Year of Assessment
Category of 01 Name of Associated Company 1 TP Method TNMM Comparable price /
Transaction Enterprise range
1 Amount of 400,000,000 Associated 11111111 Profit Level ROTC AL Range - Max 6.50%
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of 1ND Price / Profit 3.15% AL Range - Med 4.10%
amount of Residence Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of 02 Tested 01 AL Range-Low 1.06%
ending balance Associated Enterprise Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
Category of 01 Name of associated Company 2 TP Method TNMM Comparable price /
Transaction Enterprise range
2 Amount of 15,000,000 Associated 22222222 Profit Level ROTC AL Range - Max  6.50%
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of Residence CHN Price / Profit 3.15% AL Range - Med 4.10%
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 1.06%
ending balance Enterprise Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
Category of 01 Name of Associated Company 3 TP Method TNMM Comparable price /
Transaction Enterprise range
3 Amount of 6,000,000 Associated 33333333 Profit Level ROTC AL Range - Max 6.50%
Transaction Enterprise’sTax Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR) Identification Number
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
34A
For loans, Country of Residence FRA Price / Profit 3.15% AL Range - Med 4.10%
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 1.06%
ending Enterprise Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
balance
Category of 28 Name of Associated Company 2 TP Method Comparable price /
Transaction Enterprise range
4 Amount of 58,000,000 Associated 22222222 Profit Level AL Range - Max
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator  (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of Residence CHN Price / Profit AL Range - Med
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 Tested AL Range - Low
ending Enterprise Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
balance
Category of 27 Name of  Associated Company 4 TP Method RPM Comparable price /
Transaction Enterprise range
5 Amount of 176,000,000 Associated 44444444 Profit Level GM AL Range - Max 29.29%
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of Residence PAK Price / Profit 22.33% AL Range - Med 28.28%
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of Associated 02 Tested 01 AL Range - Low 27.27%
ending Enterprise Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
balance
6 Category ofT 27 Name of  Associated Company 5 TP Method RPM Comparable price /
ransaction Enterprise range
Amount of 26,000,000 Associated 55555555 Profit Level GM AL Range - Max 29.29%
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator  (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of NPL Price / Profit 22.33% AL Range - Med 28.28%
amount of Residence Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of 05 Tested Enterprise 01 AL Range - Low 27.27%
ending Associated (25 th Percentile)
balance Enterprise
Category of 30 Name of  Associated Company 1 TP Method Comparable price /
Transaction Enterprise range
7 Amount of 51,000,000 Associated 11111111 Profit Level AL Range - Max
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of IND Price / Profit AL Range - Med
amount of Residence Margin /Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of 02 T ested AL Range - Low
ending Associated Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
balance Enterprise
Category of 06 N ame of Company 3 TP Method CPM Comparable price /
Transaction Associated range
Enterprise
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
35A
8 Amount of 220,000,000 Associated 33333333 Profit Level GMK AL Range - Max 12.00%
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator  (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of Residence FRA Price / Profit 10.00% AL Range - Med 10.00%
amount of Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 8.00%
ending Associated Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
balance Enterprise
Category of 39 Name of Associated Company 6 TP Method CUP Comparable price /
Transaction Enterprise range
9 Amount of 300,000,000 Associated 66666666 Profit Level Other AL Range - Max 12.00%
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, 2,000,000,000 Country of LUX Price / Profit 12.00% AL Range - Med 10.00%
amount of Residence Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, 2,000,000,000 Criteria of 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 8.00%
ending Associated Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
balance Enterprise
Category of 39 Name of  Associated Company 1 TP Method CUP Comparable price /
Transaction Enterprise range
10 Amount of 60,000,000 Associated 11111111 Profit Level Other AL Range - Max 10.00%
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of IND Price / Profit 20.00% AL Range - Med 9.00%
amount of Residence Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 7.00%
ending Associated Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
balance Enterprise
Category of 22 Name of  Associated Company 7 TP Method CUP Comparable price /
Transaction  Enterprise range
11 Amount of 250,000,000 Associated 77777777 Profit Level Other AL Range - Max 6.00%
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of NPL Price / Profit 4.50% AL Range - Med 5.00%
amount of Residence Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of 02 T ested 01 AL Range - Low 4.00%
ending Associated Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
balance Enterprise
12 Category of 31 Name of Associated Company 8 TP Method Comparable price /
Transaction Enterprise Range
Amount of 199,000,000 Associated 88888888 Profit Level AL Range - Max
Transaction Enterprise’sTIN Indicator  (75 th Percentile)
(in LKR)
For loans, Country of LKA Price / Profit AL Range - Med
amount of Residence Margin / Rate
principal
For loans, Criteria of 02 T ested AL Range - Low
ending Associated Enterprise (25 th Percentile)
balance Enterprise
COLUMN I COLUMN II COLUMN III COLUMN IV
Item Transaction Associated Enterprise TP Methodology Arm’s Length Price

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
36A
ANNEXURE VI: Transaction Codes for categories of transactions with associated enterprises
    (i) Revenue Transactions
Transaction Code No. Description
01 Sale of produced inventories
02 Sale of non-produced inventories
03 Production supporting services
04 Administrative services
05 Technical assistance
06 Technical services
07 Other services
08 Fees
09 Commissions
10 Promotional activities
11 Insurance and reinsurance
12 Financial instruments
13 Interests on loans
14 Leasing
15 Other financial services
16 Guarantees
17 Sales of shares and interest as investment assets
18 Other portfolio transfers
19 Sale of non-depreciable assets
20 Sale of depreciable or amortizable assets
21 Transfer of intangible assets
22 Royalties
23 Other investments
24 Other assets
25 Other revenue
26 Other (to be specified in Local File)

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
37A
27 Purchase of produced inventories
28 Purchase of non-produced inventories
29 Production Supporting Services
30 Administrative services
31 Technical assistance
32 Technical services
33 Other services
34 Fees
35 Commissions
36 Promotional activities
37 Insurance and reinsurance
38 Financial instruments
39 Interests on loans
40 Leasing
41 Other financial services
42 Guarantees
43 Purchase of shares and interest as investment assets
44 Other portfolio transfers
45 Purchase of non-depreciable assets
46 Purchase of depreciable or amortizable assets
47 Purchase of intangible assets
48 Royalties
49 Other investments
50 Other assets
51 Other expenditures
52 Other (to be specified in Local File)
ii) Expense Transactions
Transaction Code No. Description

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
38A
ANNEXURE VII: Criteria of Associated Enterprises
Associatio n Description
Code No.
01 Participating directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital (IRA, Sec.77(5)(a))
02 Permanent establishment (IRA, Sec. 77(5)(b))
03 Directly or indirectly holding of shares or otherwise carrying the majority of the voting power (Regulation
8(a))
04 Holding directly or indirectly shares carrying not less than 50 per cent of the voting power (Regulation
8(b))
05 Loans advanced by one enterprise to another enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one per cent of the
book value of the total assets of the other enterprise (Regulation 8(c))
06 Loans and equity provided by one enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one per cent of the book value
of the total assets of the other enterprise (Regulation 8(d))
07 Guarantees of not less than twenty five per cent of the total borrowings (Regulation 8(e))
08 More than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or more executive
directors or executive members of the governing board of one enterprise, are appointed by the other
enterprise (Regulation 8(f))
09 More than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or more of the
executive directors or members of the governing board, of each of the two enterprises are appointed by
the same person or persons (Regulation 8(g))
10 ninety per cent or more of the raw materials, semi-finished goods and consumables required for the
manufacture or processing of goods or articles carried out by one enterprise, or of purchases required for
the sale, are supplied by the other enterprise, or by persons specified by the other enterprise, and the
prices and other conditions relating to the supply are influenced by such other enterprise (Regulation
8(h))
11 Goods or articles manufactured or processed by one enterprise are sold/ transferred to another enterprise
or to persons specified by the enterprise, and the prices and other conditions relating thereto are influenced
by such enterprise or vice versa (Regulation 8(i))
12 Control by an individual or his relative or jointly by such individual and his relative or jointly by relatives
of such individual (Regulation 8(j))
13 Holding of not less than ten per cent interest of a firm, association of persons or body of individuals
(Regulation 8(k))
14 Where the controlled transaction differs from the transactions that would have been made or imposed by
any person not directly participating in the management, control or capital as mentioned in section 76 or
77, but confers a potential advantage to the enterprise (Regulation 8(1)

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
39A
ANNEXURE VIII: Transfer Pricing Method Codes
Method Code No. Description
CUP Comparable Uncontrolled Price Method
RP Resale Price Method
CP Cost Plus Method
TNM Transactional Net Margin Method
PS Profit Split Method
ANNEXURE IX : Profit Level Indicator  (PLI) Codes
PLI Code No. Description
GM Gross Margin
GMK Gross Markup
ROS Operating Margin / Return on Sales
ROTC Operating Markup / Return on Total Cost
ROA Return on Assets
ROCE Return on Capital Employed
BERRY Berry Ratio
Other Other (to be specified in Local File)
ANNEXURE X : Tested Party Codes
Tested Enterprise Code No. Description
01 Sri Lankan enterprise
02 Foreign enterprise

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
40A
ANNEXURE XI: Country of Residence Codes
COUNTRY CODES
Afghanistan AFG
Albania ALB
Algeria DZA
American Samoa ASM
Andorra AND
Angola AGO
Anguilla AIA
Antarctica ATA
Antigua and Barbuda A TG
Argentina ARG
Armenia ARM
Aruba ABW
Australia AUS
Austria AUT
Azerbaijan AZE
Bahamas BHS
Bahrain BHR
Bangladesh B G D
Barbados BRB
Belarus BLR
Belgium BEL
Belize BLZ
Benin BEN
Bermuda BMU
Bhutan BTN
Bolivia BOL
Bosnia and Herzegovina BIH
Botswana BWA
Brazil BRA
British Indian Ocean Territory IOT
Macau MAC
Macedonia MKD
Madagascar MDG
Malawi MWI
Malaysia MYS
Maldives MDV
Mali MLI
Malta ML T
Marshall Islands MHL
Mauritania MRT
Mauritius MUS
Mayotte MYT
Mexico MEX
Micronesia FSM
Moldova MDA
Monaco MCO
Mongolia MNG
Montenegro MNE
Montserrat MSR
Morocco MAR
Mozambique MOZ
Myanmar MMR
Namibia NAM
Nauru NRU
Nepal NPL
Netherlands NLD
Netherlands Antilles ANT
New Caledonia NCL
New Zealand NZL
Nicaragua NIC
COUNTRY CODES

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
41A
British Virgin Islands V G B
Brunei BRN
Bulgaria BGR
Burkina Faso BFA
Burundi BDI
Cambodia KHM
Cameroon CMR
Canada CAN
Cape Verde CPV
Cayman Islands CYM
Central African Republic CAF
Chad TCD
Chile CHL
China CHN
Christmas Island CXR
Cocos Islands CCK
Colombia COL
Comoros COM
Cook Islands COK
Costa Rica CRI
Croatia HR V
Cuba CUB
Curacao CUW
Cyprus CYP
Czech Republic CZE
Democratic Republic of the Congo COD
Denmark DNK
Djibouti DJI
Dominica DMA
Dominican Republic DOM
East Timor TLS
Ecuador ECU
COUNTRY CODES
Egypt E G Y
Niger NER
Nigeria NGA
Niue NIU
North Korea PRK
Northern Mariana Islands MNP
Norway NOR
Oman OMN
Pakistan PAK
Palau PLW
Palestine PSE
Panama PAN
Papua New Guinea PNG
Paraguay P R Y
Peru PER
Philippines PHL
Pitcairn PCN
Poland POL
Portugal PRT
Puerto Rico PRI
Qatar QAT
Republic of the Congo C O G
Reunion REU
Romania ROU
Russia RUS
Rwanda RWA
Saint Barthelemy BLM
Saint Helena SHN
Saint Kitts and Nevis KNA
Saint Lucia LCA
Saint Martin MAF
Saint Pierre and Miquelon SPM
COUNTRY CODES

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
42A
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines VCT
Samoa WSM
El Salvador . SL V
Equatorial Guinea GNQ
Eritrea ERI
Estonia EST
Ethiopia ETH
Falkland Islands FLK
Faroe Islands FRO
Fiji FJI
Finland FIN
France FRA
French Polynesia PYF
Gabon GAB
Gambia GMB
Georgia GEO
Germany DEU
Ghana GHA
Gibraltar GIB
Greece GRC
Greenland G R L
Grenada GRD
Guam GUM
Guatemala GTM
Guernsey G G Y
Guinea GIN
Guinea-Bissau GNB
Guyana G U Y
Haiti HTI
Honduras HND
Hong Kong HKG
Hungary HUN
Iceland ISL
India IND
Indonesia IDN
Iran IRN
San Marino SMR
Sao Tome and Principe STP
Saudi Arabia SAU
Senegal SEN
Serbia SRB
Seychelles SYC
Sierra Leone SLE
Singapore SGP
Sint Maarten SXM
Slovakia SVK
Slovenia SVN
Solomon Islands SLB
Somalia SOM
South Africa ZAF
South Korea KOR
South Sudan SSD
Spain ESP
Sri Lanka LKA
Sudan SDN
Suriname SUR
Svalbard and Jan Mayen SJM
Swaziland SWZ
Sweden SWE
Switzerland CHE
Syria SYR
Taiwan TWN
Tajikistan TJK
Tanzania TZA
COUNTRY CODES COUNTRY CODES

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'03'02
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 02.03.2021
43A
Thailand THA
Togo TGO
Tokelau TKL
Tonga TON
Trinidad and Tobago TTO
Tunisia TUN
Iraq IRQ
Ireland IRL
Isle of Man IMN
Israel ISR
Italy ITA
Ivory Coast CIV
Jamaica JAM
Japan JPN
Jersey J E Y
Jordan JOR
Kazakhstan KAZ
Kenya KEN
Kiribati KIR
Kosovo XKX
Kuwait KWT
Kyrgyzstan KGZ
Laos LAO
Latvia L V A
Lebanon LBN
Lesotho LSO
Liberia LBR
Libya LBY
Liechtenstein LIE
Lithuania L TU
Luxembourg LUX
Turkey TUR
Turkmenistan TKM
Turks and Caicos Islands TCA
Tuvalu TUV
U.S. Virgin Islands VTR
Uganda UGA
Ukraine UKR
United Arab Emirates ARE
United Kingdom G B R
United States USA
Uruguay U R Y
Uzbekistan UZB
Vanuatu VUT
Vatican V A T
Venezuela V E N
Vietnam VNM
Wallis and Futuna WLF
Western Sahara WSH
Yemen YEM
Zambia ZMB
COUNTRY CODES COUNTRY CODES
03- 388
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.