

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of December 04, 2015
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 07. 12. 2015)
A
BILL
(Private Member’s Bill)
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
SRI GUNARATHANA INTERNATIONAL
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Sriyani Wijewickrama, for
Digamadulla District
to incorporate the Sri Gunarathana International Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Gunarathana International Foundation
(Incorporation)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI GUNARATHANA INTERNATIONAL
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Sri Gunarathana International Foundation ” has heretofore
been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by
its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be expedient to grant the said
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Sri Gunarathana
International Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.      of
2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of
this Act, such and so many persons as now are members
of the 
 Sri Gunarathana International Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall
hereafter be admitted  as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“
Sri Gunarathana International Foundation ” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue
and be sued, with full power and authority to have and  use
a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the Sri
Gunarathana
International
Foundation
.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Gunarathana International Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to take necessary action for the extension and
protection of Buddhism;
(b) to assist in the establishment of Dhamma schools,
to establish and conduct of centres for this purpose;
(c) to take action for the conservation and the
protection of social values;
(d) to establish institutions which are actively involved
in eradication social unrest;
(e) to formulate systematic and effective programmes
for eradicating poverty;
(f) to organize activites for the social welfare and
development, using physical resources and
knowledge which are inherent to Sri Lanka;
(g) to promote mutual understanding and co-operation
as social and national level in the human society;
(h) to plan and implement community welfare,
educational and social development projects in
Sri Lanka;
(i) to promote education, health, recreation, culture
and agriculture, to provide grants, scholarships,
gifts, donations and financial assistance for the
improvement, extension and publicize knowledge
and to establish institutions for this purpose;
(j) to promote areas relating to traditional knowledge
and establish institutions for this purpose;
(k) to commence and maintain projects for the
protection and conservation of the environment;
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Gunarathana International Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(l) to grow and maintain herbal plants and other plants
required to produce indigenous medicine;
(m) to commence herbal parks and gardens and to
provide assistance for this purpose;
(n) to open and maintain sales outlets to purchase,
distribute and sell ayurvedic medicines;
(o) to import and export ayurvedic medicines;
(p) to award scholarships to local and foreign students,
to send students for foreign scholarships and
matteres connected thereto;
(q) to provide education of university level on various
languages and various subjects and to award
certificates and to establish institutions for this
purpose;
(r) to assist for the uplift of the visually-impaired,
sound-impaired, disabled, destitute, those suffering
from incurable diseases and mentally-retarded, to
establish and maintain centres for this purpose;
(s) to establish and maintain affiliated institutions for
the attainment of the objectives of the corporation
and do other things required for the purpose;
(t) to engage in an industry, trade or export or import
enterprise and to assist persons to conduct
agricultural, industrial and commercial enterprises
and industries, to extend training programmes for
providing technology and techniques and to
organize propaganda;
(u) to assist in scholarship, cash or kind for the
voluntary employees and other employees who are
engaged in the attainment of the objectives of the
Corporation;

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Gunarathana International Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(v) to establish and conduct libraries, to assist in
printing and publishing of books, magazines,
souvenirs, journals, cassettes, compact disks and
software and to provide other services necessary
to the attainment of the objectives of the
Corporation ;
(w) to promote the Sri Lankan oriental and western
aesthetic fields and to establish and conduct
institutions for the purpose;
(x) to promote, organize and conduct of exhibitions,
projects, lectures, seminars, discussions, workshops,
classes, debates, conferences, journeys, excursions
and other activities in Sri Lanka and abroad for the
attainment of the objectives of the Corporation and
to establish research institutes;
(y) to do acts in collaboration with institutions or
organizations local or foreign, having similar
objects to those of the Corporation; and
(z) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment
of the above objects.
4.
Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things  as
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including
the power—
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind;
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold,
take or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise
dispose of , any movable or immovable property
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Gunarathana International Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
and construct, maintain and alter any buildings or
works necessary or convenient for the business of
the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board of Management may determine;
(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any person,
or body of persons whether incorporated in Sri
Lanka or abroad or with any Government
Department, Corporation, Board, Provincial
Council or Local Authority of the achievement of
the objects of the Corporation;
(f) to determine the fees to be paid in respect of
registration of different categories of membership;
and
(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determind by the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of the Director General, the Deputy
Chairman, the Secretary, Deputy Secretary and Treasurer
and not less than seven other members elected in accordance
with such rules.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
subsection (1) on this section Ven. Doctor Colombisse
Management
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sri Gunarathana International Foundation
(Incorporation)
Gunarathana thero shall be the Director General of the
Corporation for life and he shall nominate his successor to
be Director General of the Corporation after him. Such
succeeding Director General shall also hold the office of
Director General for life.
(3) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Director of the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act.
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistant with the provision of this Act or any
other written law, for the admission,  withdrawal or expulsion
of members, the election of the Board of Management, for
the conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and Board of Management and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when  made may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Board shall cause to be maintained a register
in which every person who on the date of commencement of
this Act, is a member of the Corporation, and every person
thereafter duly admitted as the member of the Corporation
shall have inscribed in such register his name.
(2)  The register shall contain the following particulars:—
(a) name, address and occupation of the each member
of the Corporation;
Rules of the
Corporation.
Register of
members.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Gunarathana International Foundation
(Incorporation)
(b) the date on which the name of the member was
inscribed in the register; and
(c) the date on which any person ceased to be member.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
whosoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as setforth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus 
or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
9. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of all moneys received and expensed by the
Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
the income and expenditure, account and the balance sheet
shall be certified  by the auditor or auditors appointed by
the Corporation.
10. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of  the
Director General and the Secretary who shall  sign their names
on the instrument in token of their presence and such  signing
shall be independent of the signing  of any person as a
witness.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.
Fund of the
Corporation.5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Sri Gunarathana International Foundation
(Incorporation)
11. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in
law, to take and hold any property movable or immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation with full power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other Foundation or
Foundations having objects similar to those of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such Foundation or Foundations shall
be determined by the Board at or immediately before the
dissolution of the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Sri Gunarathana International Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .