

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 171]
————————
Presented by Hon. Anura Sidney Jayarathne, M.P. for
Polonnaruwa District on  21st of March  2017
(Published in the Gazette on February 20, 2017)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2d
2-
A
BILL
HECTOR APPUHAMY HELPING HAND
CHARITY FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity
 Foundation (Incorporation)
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  HECTOR APPUHAMY HELPING
HAND CHARITY FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Found ation called and known as the
“Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity Foundation”
heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said F oundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established, and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be expedient to grant the said
application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Hector Appuhamy
Helping Hand Charity Foundation (Incorporation) Act,
No.    of 2017.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Hector
Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity Foundation” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession under the name and
style of the “Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and
by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same at
its pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the Hector
Appuhamy
Helping
Hand Charity
Foundation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity
 Foundation (Incorporation)
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide medical aid and food to the poor, the
destitute and the sick;
(b) to conduct special services for needy school children
and to offer assistance by way of scholarships, library
facilities and other necessary educational support
for students;
(c) to conduct classes for the students sitting for year
five scholarship, GCE (O/L) and GCE (A/L)
examinations by experts in the particular field of
education;
(d) to support and encourage the services provided by
senior citizens’ organizations;
(e) to develop pre-schools for early childhood
development of the needy children;
(f) to give aid by way of scholarships to any officer or
servants engaged in the furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation;
(g) to promote understanding, co-operation and
friendship with similar institutions within and
outside Sri Lanka;
(h) to organize employees of small and medium scale
industries and enterprise services and working
towards their future advancement;
(i) to initiate and implement economic, social, cultural
and environmental development activities in
Sri Lanka and providing guidance necessary for it;
(j) to combat waste and corruption and utilize all
resources belonging to our community in a very
useful manner;
5
10
15
20
25
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity
 Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(k) to design  and implement social mobilization
programmes for the development of children and
women and implementing education and training
programmes for this purpose;
(l) to initiate and implement technical, industrial and
computer vocational training institutions and
programmes so that young men and women from
families of low social strata can gain self
employment opportunities;
(m) to provide training necessary for young men and
women engaged in agriculture and guiding them
towards export crops cultivation, organizing local
and foreign marketing activities necessary for it,
and providing space necessary for cultivation;
(n) to provide assistance in times of natural disasters,
emergencies and accidents;
(o) to provide training in fields of engineering,
technology, carpentry, masonry and computing to
young men and women who do not get access for
higher education and directing them towards such
vocations and starting training centres necessary
for it;
(p) to do all or several such other acts and things as are
necessary for and incidental or conducive to the
attainment of the above objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary or
desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of
the Corporation or any one of them, including the power:—
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind;
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity
 Foundation (Incorporation)
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise dispose
of, any movable or immovable property and
construct, maintain and alter any buildings or works
necessary or convenient for the business of the
Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board of Management may determine;
(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any person,
or body of persons whether incorporated in Sri Lanka
or abroad or with any Government Department,
Corporation, Board, Provincial Council or Local
Authority for the achievement of the objects of the
Corporation;
(f) to determine the fees to be paid in respect of
registration of different categories of membership;
and
(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratitutes as
may be determined by the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of the Director General, the Deputy
Chairman, the Secretary, Deputy Secretary and Treasurer
and not less than seven other members elected in accordance
with such rules.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Management
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity
 Foundation (Incorporation)
(2) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Directors of the
day immediately preceding the date of commencement of
this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law,  for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion
of members, the election of the Board of Management, for
the conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and the Board of Management and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys received by way of  gifts, bequests, donations,
transfers, subscriptions, contributions or fees shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
Banks as the Board  of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of  money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
whosesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
Funds of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
25
30
35

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity
 Foundation (Incorporation)
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which,being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.
9.    The seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, in the presence of the Director General
and the Secretary who  shall sign their names on the instrument
in token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity
 Foundation (Incorporation)
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
11.    The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of this Act,
and subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange
or otherwise dispose of the same.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains  after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other Foundation or
Foundations having objects similar to those of the
Corporation, and which is or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or  their members. Such Foundation or Foundations shall
be determined by the Board at or immediately before the
dissolution of the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice, or
affect the rights of the Republic or anybody politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Hector Appuhamy Helping Hand Charity
 Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .