

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of June 10, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 13.06.2016)
LAK JANASETHA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Lak Janasetha Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Thenuka Vidanagamage, M.P.  for
Badulla District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00

<!-- page 2 -->

Lak Janasetha Foundation
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 009956—300  (05/2016)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE LAK JANASETHA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Foundation called and known as the “Lak
Janasetha Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri
Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and transacting all matters connected  with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established, and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application :
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Lak Janasetha
Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the Lak
Janasetha Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate, with
perpetual succession, under the name and style of  the “Lak
Janasetha Foundation” (hereinafter  referred to as the
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued with full
power and authority to have and  use a common seal and to  alter
the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to take necessary action for the promotion and
protection of Buddhism;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the Lak
Janasetha
Foundation.
The general
objects of the
Corporation.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Lak Janasetha Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to formulate systematic and effective programmes for
eradicating proverty;
(c) to promote mutual understanding and co-operation
at social and national level in the human society;
(d) to plan and implement community welfare,
educational and social development projects in Sri
Lanka;
(e) to promote education, health, recreation,culture and
agriculture, to provide grants, scholarships, gifts,
donations and financial assistance for the
improvement, extension and publicize knowledge
and to establish institutions for this purpose;
(f) to assist for the uplift of the visually-impaired, sound-
impaired disabled, destitute, those suffering from
incurable diseases and mentally-retarded, to establish
and maintain centres for this purpose;
(g) to establish and maintain affiliated institutions for
the attainment of the objectives of the corporation
and do other things required for the purpose;
(h) to assist in scholarship, cash or kind for the voluntary
employees and other employees who are engaged in
the attainment of the objectives of the Corporation;
(i) to establish and conduct libraries, to assist in printing
and publishing of books, magazines, software and to
provide other services necessary to the attainment of
the objectives of the Corporation;
(j) to promote, organize and conduct of exhibitions,
projects, lectures, seminars, discussions, workshops,
classes, debates, conferences, journeys, excursions and

<!-- page 4 -->

Lak Janasetha Foundation
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
other activities in Sri Lanka and abroad for the
attainment of the objectives of the Corporation and
to establish research institutes;
(k) to do acts in collaboration with institutions or
organizations local or foreign, having similar objects
to those of the Corporation; and
(l) to do all other acts as are necessary and incidental to
the attainment of all or some of the above objects of
the Corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts and matters  as  necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind;
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise dispose
of, any movable or immovable property and construct,
maintain and alter any buildings or works necessary
or convenient for the business of the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner as the
Board of Management may determine;
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Lak Janasetha Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any person,
or body of persons whether incorporated in Sri Lanka
or abroad or with any Government Department,
Corporation, Board, Provincial Council or Local
Authority for the achievement of the objects of the
Corporation;
(f) to determine the fees to be paid in respect of
registration of different categories of membership;
and
(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services of
officers and servants of the Corporation and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other  provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Supreme Board
consisting of Chairman, the Secretary  and Treasurer.
(2) The Supreme Board of the Corporation shall consist of
the members of the Supreme Board of the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
(3) A member of the Supreme Board other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Supreme
Board a new member shall be appointed to fill such vacancy
and such a new members shall hold office for a period of four
years.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any
other written law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion
of members, the election of the Board of Management, for
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Lak Janasetha Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
the conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and Board of Management and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Board shall cause to be maintained a register
in which every person who on the date of commencement of
this Act,  is a member of the Corporation and every person
therafter duly admitted as member of the Corporation shall
have inscribed in such register his name .
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund. All
moneys received by way of gifts, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation
whosoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as setforth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Funds of the
Corporation.
Register of
members.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Lak Janasetha Foundation
(Incorporation)
9. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.
In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Director General and the Secretary who shall sign their names
to the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a
witness.
11. All debts and liabilities of the foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby constituted and all
5
10
Seal of the
Corporation.
15
Accounts and
Audit.
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Lak Janasetha Foundation
(Incorporation)
7
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and  hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
transferred to some other Foundation or Foundations having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is, or
are, by its rules thereof prohibited from distributing and income
or property among its or their members. Such Foundation or
Foundations shall be determined by the Board at or
immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Lak Janasetha Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .