

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2008
27
27
wxl 1"532 _ 2008 ckjdß 11 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008’01’11
No. 1,532 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 11, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 29
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th January 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 04th January, 2008.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2008
28
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2008
29
Posts - Vacant
SRI  LANKA  EXCISE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Circuit Bungalow Keeper
APPLICATIONS are called from the Citizens of Sri Lanka to select
a Bungalow Keeper for the Circuit Bungalow of this Department.
This Vacancy is available at Polonnaruwa Circuit Bungalow.
2. The application form prepared according to the specimen given
below should be sent by Registered Post to the Commissioner General
of Excise, Department of Excise, No. 28, Staples Street, Colombo 2
before 27.02.2008 envelope containing the application should bear
the word "Post of Bungalow Keeper" on the top left hand corner of
the envelope. Incomplete applications as well as the applications
received after the closing date will be rejected. The applications
received will not be acknowledged.
3. Salary Scale.– Monthly consolidated salary Rs. 11,730- 100 x
10-120 x 10 - 130 x 12 - Rs. 16,590 an efficiency bar before reaching
the salary step Rs. 12,000.
4. Age limit.– Age should be not less than 18 years and not more
than 45 years as at the last date receiving the applications according
to the Gazette Notification. The maximum age limit will not apply to
those already in Public/Local Government Service.
5. Educational and other Qualifications :
(a) Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should have passed Grade 08/year 09 or a higher examination.
(c) Should possess an excellent knowledge and experience in
preparation of Eastern and Western food. Preference will
be given to those who have experience in providing food in
Rest House or similar Institution and have a good knowledge
of managing a Kitchen, Guest Houses and Reception.
Applicants should have experience of 03 (Three) years or
more in the relevant field.
(d) proficiency in English/Tamil Language will be an additional
qualification.
6. Recruitment Procedure.– The applicants who have the
qualifications in para 4 and 5 above will be required to appear for an
interview in order to test their vocational aptitudes. Marks will be
awarded at the structural interview as follows :
Marks for additional educational qualifications 40
Marks for ability to speak in English Language 15
Marks for ability to speak in Tamil Language 15
Training and Experience 30
–––
100
===
Those who are engaged in the permanent service of this
Department and have the above qualifications may also apply for
this post. Such applicants should forward their applications through
their superiors.
7. Terms of Engagement .– This post is permanent and
pensionable. Contributions should be made to the Widow's and
Orphans Fund.
8. Conditions of Service.– The attention of all the applicants shall
be drawn to the General Conditions applicable to the posts in Pubilc
Service as published in Part I of this Gazette.
9. Applicants should annex copies (not the original copy) of the
following documents to their application :
(i) Birth Certificate.
(ii) Two (02) Character Certificates recently obtained. One
should be obtained from the Grama Sevaka of the area.
(iii)Certificate in support of Educational Qualifications.
(iv) Certifications in support of Special Qualifications and
Experience. (Applicants will be called for the interview
in writing. Traveling expenses will not be paid for this
purpose)
D. G. M. V . H
APUARACHCHI ,
Commissioner General of Excise.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
POST  OF  BUNGALOW  KEEPER
01. Full Name :—————.
02. Identity Card No. :—————.
03. Present Address :————. Permanent Address :————.
04. Nationality :—————.
05. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka by decent or by registration :
—————.
(If registration, a copy of the certificate).
06. Date of Birth :—————.
07. Age as at the closing date of receiving application according to
the Gazette Notification :—————.
08. Educational Qualifications (Annex copies of certificates of
examination passed) :—————.
09. Qualifications obtained under (C-D) of the Gazette Notification
:—————.
10. Names and Address of two Referees :
(i) —————
(ii) —————
11. If you have held any post in States/Local Government Service
before, give particulars :—————.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2008
30
I hereby Certify that the above particulars given by me are true
and correct to my knowledge and belief and if such particulars are
found to be incorrect or untrue even after I am appointed for the
service, I am aware that my service is subject to terminate without
any compensation.
—————,
Applicant Signature.
Date :—————.
01–319
DEPARTMENT  OF  AYURVEDA
Recruitment for the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Service
IN accordance with the instructions of the Public Service Commission
applications are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka for the post of
Medical Officers of the Preliminary Grade in the Medical Officers
category of the Department of Ayurveda from those who have
fulfilled the under mentioned requirements as at 01st February, 2008.
The Applications prepared on a sheet of paper of size A4 according
to the specimen form appearing herein under, should be sent under
registered cover addressed to the 
“Commissioner of Ayurveda,
Department of Ayurveda, Nawinna, Maharagama”  on or before
01st February, 2008. The words “Posts in the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic
Medical Service” should be written on the left hand top corner of the
envelope enclosing applications.
1. Salary Scale :
(i) For Graduates according to the P. A. circular Number
6/2006 - Rs. 313,920 - 4 x 2,580 - Rs. 3,29,400.
2. Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years of age and not more
than 40 years of age as at 01st February, 2008.
3. Educational and other qualification :-
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ; and
(ii)Should possess a Degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani
systems of medicine obtained after a five years course of
study in a recognized University, completed one year
internship and registered as a Physician in the Medical
Council of Ayurveda ; and
(iii)Should be of excellent character and physically fit and
posses a very good eye sight.
4. Conditions of Services.– This post is permanent and
pensionable. The selected candidate should contribute to the Widows'
and Orphans'/Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme. The
appointment is subjected to the three year probation.
5. Promotion.– After recruitment to the post of the preliminary
Grade, promotions are made in conformity with the terms and
conditions of service laid down in the Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical
Service Minute.
Note.– (i) After the earliest batch of the Indigenous Physicians
who have passed the final (Degree/Diploma) Examination in
(Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani) and who have fulfilled all the qualifications
laid down in the Scheme of Recruitments as at 01st February, 2008
but so far not recruited to the government Service, but has been
recruited in the order of merit based on the individual marks secured
by each of them and after having been recruited to fill the vacancies
of the existing course, the other batches of the Ayurveda/Siddha/
Unani Graduate Medical Officers will be recruited, based on merit as
aforesaid according to the chronological order they have passed their
examinations.
(ii) Provided however, where the Public Service Commission
takes another decision which runs counter to the above mentioned
Scheme of Recruitment and the above determination (Methodology)
such decision made by the Cabinet shall supersede the above
mentioned Scheme of Recruitment and the determination aforesaid.
(iii) Following Numbers of vacancies exist in the grade of
Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani.
Ayurveda Siddha Unani
212 73 33
6. Candidates will be selected through an interview and after
certification of qualifications conducted by an Interview Board
constituted for this purpose.
7. Selected applicants should be prepared to serve in any part of
island.
8. The selected applicants should be prepared to produce any of
the or all the following documents when called for :-
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii)Degree Certificate ;
(iii)Certificate of Experience ;
(iv) Certificate of registration in the Medical Council of
Ayurveda ;
(v) Grama Niladhari's Certificate countersigned by the
Divisional Secretary.
9. The applications of officers in the Public Service should be
applied only through the respective Heads of Departments.
Applications received after 01st February, 2008 will be rejected.
The applications and all relevant documents should be addressed to
the official designation of the Commissioner of Ayurveda and not to
the personal name of any other officer.
10. Reference is also requested to the general conditions applicable
the appointments in the Public Service appearing in the beginning

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008’01’11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2008
31
Part I : Section (IIA) of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
As instructed by the Public Service Commission.
A SOKA  M ALIMAGE ,
Secretary.
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine,
Old Kottawa Road,
Nawinna,
Maharagama,
26th December, 2007.
For office use only
POST OF PRELIMINARY GRADE MEDICAL OFFICERS IN
THE CATEGORY OF MEDICAL OFFICERS IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF AYURVEDA
01. (i) (a) Last Name with initials (In English block capitals) :
—————.
(b) Last Name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
(ii) (a) Names denoted by initials (In English block letters) :
—————.
(b) Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :———.
02. (i) Permanent Address (In English block letters) (Letters will
be posted to this address) :—————.
(ii) Telephone No. :—————.
03. (i) Date of Birth :
Year                        Month              Date
(ii)Age to 01.02.2008 :
Years Months Dates
04. Sex (Mark X in the relevant cage) :
Female Male
05. Whether married or Single (Mark X in the relevant cage) :
Married Single
06. Whether citizen of Sri Lanka :—————.
07. Nationality :—————.
08. Where the residential place belongs to :
(i) Provincial Council :—————.
(ii)District :—————.
(iii)Divisional Secretary's Division :—————.
09. National Identity Card No. :
10. Educational Qualifications :
Details of Degree
BAMS
BUMS
BSMS
(Mark X in the relevant cage)
1. University/Institute :—————.
2. Effective date of degree :—————.
3. Class :—————.
4. Internship period :—————.
11.Details of registration in the Medical Council :
1. Number :—————.
2. Year :—————.
I hereby confirm that the particulars furnished in these application
are true and correct. I am also aware that if it is revealed to the
appointing authority that any particulars contained here in untrue
and incorrect, I will be terminated from service without payment of
any compensation.
—————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :—————.
R
EPORT  OF  THE  HEAD  OF  DEPARTMENT  IF THE
APPLICANT  IS IN THE  PUBLIC  SERVICE
I hereby certify that the afore mentioned particulars are correct
and that his/her work and conduct are ……………… He/She could/
could not be released from the present post.
—————,
Signature and the Designation of
the Head of Department.
Date :—————.
01–344
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.