

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1540
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1534
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"976 – 2016 cQ,s ui 15 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'07'15
No. 1,976 –  FRIDAY ,  JULY 15, 2016
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th August, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd  July, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
21st June, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1531
Note.— Law Commission (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 20, 2016.
N. B.— The list of Jurors in Colombo District Jurisdiction area for the year 2016 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in 
Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1532
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are rele ased for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1533
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should perso nally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1534
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
District Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 15th August, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
29th June, 2016.
The schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Walallavita Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional
   in Pasdun Koralaya West Division   Registrar General, District   
   and Births and Deaths of Makalandawa   Secretariat, Kalutara. 
   Division  
07–713
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
 
TRINCOMALEE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1535
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
District Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 15th of August, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
22nd June, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division  Applications are called Applications should be sent
Trincomalee Kuchchavelli Post of Registrar of Marriages  District Secretary/Additional
   (Tamil) of Kattukulam North  Registrar General, District   
   Division   Secretariat, Trincomalee. 
Trincomalee Kinniya Post of Registrar of Birth and Deaths  District Secretary/Additional
   (Tamil) of Kurunchankerney  Registrar General, District   
   Division   Secretariat, Trincomalee. 
07–581
––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
Officer Cadet and Lady Officer Cadet Vacancies 
V ACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for 
Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following 
branches :–
 (a) Technical Engineering Branch (Male/Female) ;
 (b) Electronics Engineering Branch (Male) ;
 (c) Logistics Branch (Male/Female) ;
 (d) Administrative Branch (Male/Female) ;
 (e) Administrative Regiment Branch (Male/Female) ;
 (f) Operations Air Branch Air Traffic Control (Male). 
2. Applications are invited from male/female candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below : 
BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant 
Qualifications (Accredited by the General Sir 
John Kotelawala Defence University)
Technical Engineering/Electronics Engineering 
Branches :
 A minimum of six passes at the G. C. E. O/L 
examination with four credit passes including 
English Language, Mathematics, Science and an 
ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in one 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1536
sitting and ordinary passes in three subjects at 
the G. C. E. A/L examination in Physical Science 
Stream (Physics, Chemistry, Combined maths) 
in one sitting. 
Logistics/Administrative/Administrative Regiment 
Branches :
 A minimum of six passes at the G. C. E. O/L 
examination with four credit passes including 
English language, Mathematics, Science and 
an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in 
one sitting and ordinary passes in three subjects 
at the G. C. E. A/L examination in Physical/
Bio Science/Commerce Technology Streams in 
one sitting. Students of the Arts Stream with a 
minimum of three ordinary passes at the G. C. E. 
A/L examination are also eligible to apply for the 
Administrative Regiment Branch.
Operations Air Branch/Air Traffic Control :
 A minimum of six passes at the G. C. E. (O/L) 
examination with four credit passes including 
English language, Mathematics, Science and 
an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in 
one sitting and ordinary passes in three subjects 
at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in Physical 
Science Stream (Physics, Chemistry, Combined 
Maths)/Bio Science Stream (Physics, Chemistry, 
Biology) (as applicable) in one sitting. 
3. Other Requirements .– Candidates must fulfill the 
following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri 
Lanka Regular Air Force.
 ( a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 ( b) Age : Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 22 years as at 15th 
November, 2016
 ( c) Height : Male - 5' 6" and above
   : Female - 5' 4" and above
 ( d) Weight : Male - 17 < BMI < 26
    Female - 17 < BMI < 25
     Weight (Kg)
    BMI = –––––––––
     Height2 (m)
 ( e) Chest : Male - 32" (Minimum)
 ( f) Colour Vision  : CP2
  Standard
 ( g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles)
 ( h) Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried. 
No cadet will be permitted to 
marry whilst under training 
and for a further period of 
one (1) year from the date of 
Commissioning. 
4. Due considerations will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports. 
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirement of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will 
be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight 
are below the standard specified in the Gazette notification 
and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to 
the service may at the discretion of the Commander of the 
Air Force be considered even though he/she may not have 
the requisite height provided he/she possess the requisite 
academic and professional qualifications. 
6. Conditions of service : 
 ( a) The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force 
as a cad et on a regular engagement in the same 
manner as for other ranks and will undergo a 
Basic Combat Training Course. On successful 
completion of training, the duration of which will 
depend on the branch, the status allocated on his/
her enlistment as an Other Rank will lapse and 
will receive a permanent commission in the rank 
of Pilot Officer. 
 ( b) Cadets will be requried to und ergo training at a 
place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the 
Commander of the Air Force in consultation with 
the Ministry of Defence. 
 ( c) During the period of training as cadets and 
thereafter, personnel will be subject to Air Force 
Law.
 ( d) Every cadet will be provided all items of 
uniforms, equipment and medical facilities. 
 ( e) During the period of training, a cadet will be 
accommodated in an Air Force Mess and will be 
provided with food. 
 ( f) In the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating 
his/her candidature for a commission during 
training, the parent or guardian will be required to 
refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses 
incurred up to that time by the Republic of Sri 
Lanka on account of such Cadet. 
 ( g) If at any time during his/her course a cadet is 
reported by the authorities as being unsuitable /

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1537
for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within 
his/her control to qualify for a commission, his/
her parent or guardian will be required to refund 
to the Sri Lanka Air Force all expenses incurred 
on his/her training and will be required to enter 
into a bond to this effect with the Commander of 
the Air Force acting on behalf of the Government 
of Sri Lanka. 
 ( h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 27 of the application form in respect of 
sub-paragraphs (f) and (g) above and forward 
them together with the application. Parent or 
guardian will be required to enter in to a bond 
subsequently in this form with the Republic 
of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these 
candidates as Cadets. 
 ( j) Candidates who possess the requirement as per 
para 2 and 3 will be called for the preliminary 
interview and if successful will be called for the 
officer quality tests. Candidates who pass the 
officer quality tests will be called for Medical 
Examinations (All candidates selected will be 
medically examined under Sri Lanka Air Force 
arrangements). Candidates who successfully 
complete these tests will be called for the final 
interview. The required number of candidates 
per branch will be selected according to merit at 
these interviews and tests. 
 ( k) A single officer is required to live in the officers 
mess. He/she is provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. Batman service will 
be provided. A single officer's ration allowance 
and batman allowance are paid to the Mess. 
 ( l) A married Officer may be provided with a 
married quarter if available. Recovery of rental 
will be as applicable to public servants. 
 ( m) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time.
 (n) All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act 
and orders issued from time to time. 
7. Official Language Requirements.-  The selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereaf ter be made for giving effect 
to the language policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in 
particular for implementing the provisions in the Official 
Language Act, No. 33 of 1956. 
8. Pay and Allowances : 
 ( a) Consolidated pay rate. – The scale of 
consolidated pay applicable to Officer Cadets 
and Commissioned Ranks shall be as follows :–
  Officer Cadet - Rs. 187,620.00 p. a.
  Pilot Officer –Rs. 223,500.00 p. a. (cadet entry)
  Pilot Officer – Rs. 242,700.00 p. a. (non cadet  
  entry)
  Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220.00 - 34 x 7,740 =   
   Rs. 538,380.00 p. a. 
  Flight Lieutenant  –  Rs. 321,660.00  - 28 x 7,740 =   
   Rs. 538,380.00 p. a. 
  Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620.00 - 24 x 7,740 =  
 Rs. 538,380.00  p. a. 
  Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100.00 – 20 x 9,480 
   = Rs. 551,700.00 p. a. 
  Group Captain – Rs. 441,060.00 – 18 x 12,600   
 = Rs. 667,860.00 p. a. 
 ( b) Other Allowances : 
 1. Cost of living allowance Rs. 7,800.00 per 
month.
 2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250.00 per month 
after five years of service. 
 3. Hard line allowance Rs. 600.00 per month 
20.00 per day. 
 4. Additional Hardline allowance Rs. 4,400.00 
per month for those serving in operational 
areas. 
 5. Special allowance Rs. 3,000.00 per month  
(Rs. 100.00 will be paid for day).
 6. Interim allowance Rs. 1,000.00 per month. 
 7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255.00 per 
month. 
 8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if 
permitted to live out).
 9. Ration allowance Rs. 16,138.20 per month 
(Rs. 537.94 per day) (if permitted to live out). 
 10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month). 
 11. Sepcial allowance 20% of consolidated salary. 
 12. Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year 
(for officer, spouse and children).
 13. An additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living 
in Messes to travel from the Mess to the 
hometown once a month. 
 14. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items. 
 15. Free medical facilities (including for families 
if applicable). 
 16. Married officers permitted to live-out are 
entitled to a free bus pass to travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1538
 17. Rent Allowances for married Officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. 
Pilot Officer to Group Captain and above         
Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month. 
 18. Budget Interim allowances Rs. 10,000 per 
month. 
9. Pensions/Gratuities.- Payable in terms of the Air 
Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. All Officers are contributors to the 
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. 
Rate of contributions are as per Widows and Orphans 
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970. 
10. Instructions to Applicants :
 ( a) Applications should be submitted in applicant's 
own hand writing in terms of the form specified 
below. All cages  of the application should be 
completed neatly with as much details as possible. 
Applications should be forwarded under registered 
cover to : “Command Recruiting Officer, Sri 
Lanka Air Force Trade Training School, Ekala, 
Kotugoda” so as to reach him not later than 1200 
noon on 31st July 2016. The envelope enclosing 
the application should be marked “Application 
for Cadetship/Lady Cadetship in the .................. 
Branch”. A candidate will be allowed to apply 
for only one branch, those who apply for more 
than one branch the applications will be rejected. 
Applications received after the closing date and 
not in accordance with the requirements of this 
notification and not in registered post mail will 
not be entertained. 
 ( b) Candidates who are in Go vernment Service/
Corporations/ Boards/ Civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
Heads of Department/Corpora tions/Boards/Civil 
Establishments and should bear a certificate to 
the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected. 
 ( c) Candidates will be required to produce the 
originals of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon to 
do so :
 1. Certificate of Registration of Birth 
(Certificate issued for the purpose of the 
education code will not be accepted) ;
 2. Certificates in support of the educational 
qualifications required for the branch applied 
for; 
 3. Certificates of trade/technical training and/
or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution ;
 4. Two recent certificates of character. One of 
these should be from the principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has the know of the 
applicant for more than two years or from 
the present employer (if employed).
 5. Certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc. ;
 ( d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered. 
 ( e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form. 
 ( f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form. 
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection. 
12. Selection Interviews etc. :
 ( a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfil the above conditions. 
Candidates so selected will be required to undergo 
tests as may be prescribed by the Commander 
of the Air Force. The final selection will then 
be made after an interview of those selected 
candidates by a selection board appointed by the 
Ministry of Defence. 
 ( b) Candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date of 
such interviews. Travelling or other expenses will 
not be paid in this respect. 
 ( c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he/she is to produce his/her 
National Identity Card issued by the Department 
of Registration of Persons. 
 ( d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final 
interviews will be required to present themselves 
before an Air Force Medical Board. 
 ( e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his/her testimonial. 
Any form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1539
 ( f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified. 
 gP BulaThsinghala,
 Air Marshal, 
 Commander of the Air Force. 
Headquarters, 
Sri Lanka Air Force, 
P. O. Box 594, 
Colombo 02. 
APPLICATION  FOR  OFFICER  CADET/LADY 
OFFICER  CADET  IN  THE ........................... BRANCH 
OF  THE  SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
 1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
 2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––.
 3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
 4. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
 5. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
 6. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
  (Age as at 15th November 2016) :
  Years :–––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :–––––––.
 7. Height :–––––'––––––".
 8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
 9. District :–––––––––––.
 10. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 11. Grama Seva Division :–––––––––––.
 12. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
 13. Married or Single :–––––––––––.
 14. Gender :–––––––––––.
 15. School Attended :––––––––––––.
 16. Particulars of School and/or University and 
qualifications obtained : 
 Name of  Type of  Year of  Subjects passed
 School/ examination examination (including
 University    grading)
 Ordinary 
  Level
 Advanced 
  Level
 Other
 17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/
University (if applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer employment From        To 
 18. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present 
    address 
 Father 
 Mother 
 19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 20. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates/
years etc. and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––.
 21. Other achievements of note at School/University or 
with outside Organizations. (Give details with dates/
years etc.) :–––––––––––.
 22. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer 
Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :––––.
 
 23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air 
Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so 
give details and the outcome of such applications : 
–––––––––––.
 24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 25. If earlier employed in a Government Department or 
in the Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including 
the Central Bank, National Bank, Universities, Joint 
Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.,) 
reasons for termination of employment :–––––––––––
.
 26. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name Designation Postal Address 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1540
 27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
I, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. I have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect 
of those candidates who are selected for commission in 
the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of the 
Repubilc of Sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  Signature of Applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
28.  Declaration to be signed by the parent or guardian of 
the applicant :
 ( a) I am the parent/guardian of ........................... who 
is an applicant for a Cadetship in the Sri Lanka Air 
Force and who has signed the declaration in cage 
26 of the form of application above. 
 ( b) I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following. 
 (1) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in 
the event of the above named applicant 
voulntarily terminating his/her candidature 
for a Commission during his/her period of 
training all expenses incurred upto that time by 
the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such 
applicant. 
 (2) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported 
on by th e authorities as being unsuitable 
(for reasons of misconduct or due to causes 
within his/her own control) for the issue of a 
Commission all the expenses incurred on his/
her account by the Republic of Sri Lanka. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Parent/Guardian. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of First Witness. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Second Witness. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
 (in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
07–715
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR   EXAMINATION   FOR  
OFFICERS  IN GRADE  II  OF  PUBLIC  
MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS' SERVICE - 
2012(II) 2016
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for the officers in Grade II of Public Management 
Assistants' Service will be held by the Commissioner - 
General of Examinations in the month of October, 2016 
as per provisions of Para 8, para 15, interim provisions . 
and provisions in Annex 05 of the approved service minute 
of Public Management Assistants' Service published in the 
Government Gazette of the Democratic Socialists Republic 
of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1840/34 dated 11.12.2013. 
2.0 (i) Officers who have not completed the Efficiency 
Bar Examination for the officers in Grade II, 
mentioned in the previous service minute, but 
have passed or exempted from either both or one 
of the subjects of this examination namely (1) 
Office Systems and Procedures (2) Accounting 
Systems used in the Government Offices shall 
be exempted from the relevant subjects of the 
Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade 
II mentioned in this Service Minute, on subject to 
subject basis. 
 (ii)  Officers who have been promoted to Grade 
II before the date of implementation of this 
Service Minute, should pass the Efficiency Bar 
Examination relevant to Grade II before the lapse 
of six (06) years from the date of promotion. 
3.0 This examination for officers in Grade II of the 
Public Management Assistants' Service will be held 
in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, 
Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, 
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. The 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1541
list of relevant towns and town numbers are given below. 
The Commissioner - General of Examinations reserves the 
right to cancel any center due to insufficiency of candidates 
or any other reason and decide an alternative as per the 
candidate's second preference of towns. The relevant 
section of the application should be filled by referring to 
the table of towns and town numbers given below. It will 
not be allowed to change subsequently the town/ towns 
indicated. 
 Town  Town No. 
Colombo  01 
Kandy   05 
Galle   07 
Matara   08 
Jaffna   10 
Mannar   11 
Mullaitivu  12 
Trincomalee  14 
Batticaloa  15 
Kurunegala  18 
Anuradhapura  19 
Badulla   21 
Ratnapura  24 
Killinochchi  25 
4.0  (i) This examination will be conducted by the 
Commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him with regard to the 
same.  
 (ii)  The rules and regulations for candidates 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notification. Can didates will be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the Commissioner 
- General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
5.0 Eligibility.– Officers who have been appointed 
to posts in Grade II of Pu blic Management Assistants' 
Service are eligible to appear for this examination. This 
examination should be passed within three years from the 
date of promotion to Grade II. 
Note: Provisions for provincial Management 
Assistants' Service shall be issued by the 
relevant Provincial Public Service Commissions 
and provisions shall be issued by the relevant 
institutions for other institutions concurrently 
to this Gazette Notification. In order to identify 
the applications of the officers in each Provincial 
Public Service and other institutions, conveniently 
Code Number should be used. Accordingly, for 
the officers in combined service code number is 
10. This number should be entered in the upper 
right side of the application where you have to 
mention the service you belong to. 
6.0 The application for this examination should be in 
the form of the specimen appended to this notification 
and should be prepared by the candidate him/her self. 
Applications should be sent by the Registered post through 
the respective Heads of Departments to reach the  
Commissioner - General of Examinations, 
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, 
Department of Examinations, 
P. O. 1503, 
Colombo. 
on or before 15th of August, 2016. The name of the 
examination should be indicated at the top left hand 
corner of the envelope containing the application. 
Applications received after the closing date will be 
rejected. Incomplete applications, too, will not be 
accepted. 
7.0  Identity of the Candidates. –  Candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
For this purpose one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor. 
 (i)  The National Identity Card issued by the 
Department of Registrations of Persons ;
 (ii)  A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any 
of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled 
at the discretion of the Commissioner - General of 
Examinations. All candidates are bound to comply with 
the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examination with regard to the conducting of 
this examination. Further, candidates will be subjected to 
the punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations for violation of those rules and regulations.
8.0 (i)  Applications.- Applications should be prepared 
in a paper of "A4" size in such a manner that 
Para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appears on the first page. 
The application could be typewritten but it 
should be filled in correctly and legibly by 
candidate's own handwriting. Application 
should strictly conform to the specimen 
appended and candidates are advised not to 
send more than one application or photocopies. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1542
Applications that do not comply with the 
specimen and that have not been perfected 
properly will be rejected without notice. Please 
indicate the title of the examination appearing 
the specimen in English language as well, on 
both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. It 
is the responsibility of the candidate to make 
sure that the application form perfected by him/
her self complies with the specimen given in 
the examination notice and further it would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form. 
 (ii) Officers appearing for the examination for 
the first time need not pay examination fees. 
However, for subsequent sittings, Rs. 400 for 
the whole examination and Rs. 200 for only one 
subject should be paid at any post-office island-
wide to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 
of the Commissioner General of Examinations. 
The receipt obtained thus should be affixed to 
the relevant cage of the applications form. It 
is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt 
with the candidate. It will not be allowed to 
transfer the fee paid for this examination in 
favour of another. Further, stamps or money 
orders are not accepted for examination fees.
9.0 The Commissioner-General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards along with copies of the time table 
and to all candidates whose applications have been received. 
A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to the candidates by the 
Department of Examinations. If the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would 
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of 
calling the Department of Examinations: i.e. A copy of 
the application form kept at your possession, copy of the 
receipt obtained at payment of Examination fee, name, 
address, national identity card number and the name of the 
examination. In case of the applicants outside Colombo, 
letter of the request furnishing the above particulars and 
a fax number to which a copy of the admission card is 
to be send to the Department of Examinations through 
fax. Officers who sit for the examination should get their 
signature on the admission card attested in advance and 
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
Note: Issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate has 
fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination. 
10.0  The Heads of Departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been 
issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations, 
enabling them to appear for the examination. No travelling 
expenses will be paid. 
11.0  This examination shall be held in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English media. Candidates should answer both 
question papers in the language medium in which they sat 
for the entry examination to the relevant service or in an 
official language. In case of candidates who entered the 
service without a Competitive Examination, both papers 
should be answered in the language medium of their 
education or in an official language. It will not be allowed 
to change the language medium of examination applied 
for, subsequently. 
12.0  Officers may appear separately for each subject 
and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they 
should score at least 40% of the total marks allocated for 
each subject for a pass. (For further details, refer to Annex 
5 of Public Management Assistants’ Service minute.).
13.0 For the purpose of the official language policy, all 
officers should prepare and fill the application forms in the 
official language.
14.0 The Department of Examination will issue the 
result sheet including the results of all the candidates who 
have sat for the examination to the Director General of 
Combined Services, Ministry of Public Administration 
and Management. The list of name of the candidates who 
have passed the examination will be published in the 
Government Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka.  
15.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for 
a written examination, which will consist of the following 
subjects. 
 Subject Marks Duration Subject
    No.
1. Office Systems and  100 02 Hrs. 01
 Procedure
2. Accounting Systems  100 02 Hrs. 02
 adopted in the Government 
 offices 
             Total  200
 
 15.1 Office Systems and Procedure : 
  This paper is intended to test the candidate's 
knowledge of Office Systems adopted in 
Government offices and his/her ability of practical 
application of the knowledge. This paper consists 
of two parts. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1543
Part I - A paper of multiple-choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks. 
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 
03 out of 04 questions should be answered, 
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks. 
 15.2 Accounting Systems adopted in Government 
Offices : 
  Candidate's knowledge in Accounting Systems 
adopted in government office, books and records 
controlling Accounts and orders and instructions 
of the Treasury issued in relation to that and his/her 
ability of practical application of the knowledge 
will be tested. This paper consists of two parts. 
Part I - A paper of multiple-choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks. 
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 
03 out of 04 questions should be answered, 
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks. 
 
16.0  The decision of the Director General of Combined 
Services will be final, in respect of any matter not provided 
for in this notification. 
In the event of any inconsistency between the SinhaIa, 
Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 K. V . P. M. J. gamage,
 Director General of Combined Services.
Ministry of Public Administration and Management,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
01st of July, 2016.
(For office use only)
Specimen Form of Application 
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT 
ASSISTANTS' SERVICE 2012(II) 2016
(As per this exam notification, only the officers in Grade II of Public Management Assistant's Service of the Combined 
Services shall be eligible to forward applications)
 Town Town No.  The service to which you belong 
   (Please refer the note of para 5.0 of the Gazette
 1   Notification carefully before filling this section)
 2  Medium of examination : 
    Sinhala - 2
    Tamil - 3
   English - 4
 (Indicate the name and the number of the town in  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 which you wish to sit for the examination as per 
 para 3.0 of the Gazette Notification)
 (This cannot be changed subsequently)
1.0 1.1 Name in full (In block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  ( Eg. : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end (In block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  ( Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
 1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0 Name and Address of the Service Station : 
 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In block capitals) :––––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
 2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent (In block capitals) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2016
1544
3.0 Gender :  Female - 1
   Male  - 0 
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage.) 
4.0 National Identity Card No. : 
5.0 Subject/s you offer : 
  Subject Subject No. 
6.0 Present Post :
 6.1 Post :––––––––––––.
 6.2 Number of the letter of appointment :––––––––––.
 6.3 Date of entry into Grade II of Public Management 
Assistants' Service :––––––––––––.
7.0  7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? 
:––––––––––.
 7.2  If not, Examination fee paid :––––––––––––.
 7.3  Post Office :––––––––––––.
 7.4 Receipt Number :––––––––––.
Affix the receipt securely here. 
(It would be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate : 
I declare that the information furnished above is correct 
and I am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above and it is not neessary to pay the 
examination fee since I am sitting for the examination for 
the first time/the receipt issued on payment of examination 
fee of Rs. .................. to the post office ............. on 
........... is affixed above. I agree to abide by the decisions 
made by the Commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting of the examination and all the provisions of the 
Examination Act.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of candidate. 
Date :––––––––––––.
Note: The candidate should sign in the presence of 
the Head of his/her Department/Institution or an 
officer authorized to sign on behalf of such Head 
of Department. 
Attestation of the Signature 
I certify that Mr.  / Mrs. / Miss ................................... 
who is an officer in my office and who is known to me 
personally, placed his / her signature in my presence on 
............................ Since he/ she sit for the examination 
for the first time, it is not necessary for him/her to paid 
the relevant examination fee and that the receipt has been 
affixed. 
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the  
 person attesting. 
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
9.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department : 
 I certify that, 
 (i)  The particulars furnished by the candidate have 
been examined; 
 (ii) This officer belongs to combined services; 
 (iii)  The officer has *appeared/not appeared for the 
examination earlier; 
 (iv)  *He/she has affixed the receipt obtained by 
paying the relevant fee to this application form 
since *he/ she has appeared for the examination 
and; 
 (v)  The candidate is eligible to sit the examination. 
(* Delete in applicable words)
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 Head of the Department.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
07–784
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.