

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2289$27 - 2022 cQ,s ui 20 jeks nodod - 2022'07'20
No.  2289/27  -  wedNesdAy,  july  20,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Government Notification
INLAND REvENuE  ACT, No. 24 Of 2017
Notice
IT is hereby notified under Section 75(1) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017, that the Agreement for affording relief 
from double taxation and prevention of tax evasion, entered into on 28.01.2022 between the Government of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of Türkiye set out in the Schedule hereto, has been 
approved by Parliament by resolution passed on 24.03.2022.
                    
K. M. Mahinda Siriwardana, 
          Secretary,
               Ministry of Finance, Economic 
                    Stabilization  & National Policies.
Ministry of Finance, Economic Stabilization and National Policies,
Colombo 01,
20th july, 2022.
1A-   G  37129 — 21  (07/2022)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
2A
sChedule
Agreement between the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the 
Republic of Türkiye for the Elimination of Double Taxation with respect to Taxes on Income and the Prevention 
of Tax Evasion and Avoidance
ThE GovERNMENT oF ThE DEMocRATIc SocIALIST REPubLIc oF SRI LANkA
ANd
ThE GovERNMENT oF ThE REPubLIc oF TüRkIyE
Desiring to further develop their economic relationship and to enhance their co-operation in tax matters,
Intending to conclude an Agreement for the elimination of double taxation with respect to taxes on income without creating 
opportunities for non-taxation or reduced taxation through tax evasion or avoidance (including through treaty-shopping 
arrangements aimed at obtaining reliefs provided in this Agreement for the indirect benefit of residents of third States),
have agreed as follows:
Article 1
PERSoNS covERED 
 1. This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the contracting States.
 2. For the purposes of this Agreement, income derived by or through an entity or arrangement that is treated as wholly or 
partly fiscally transparent under the tax law of either contracting State shall be considered to be income of a resident 
of a contracting State but only to the extent that the income is treated, for purposes of taxation by that State, as the 
income of a resident of that State. In no case shall the provisions of this paragraph be construed to affect a contracting 
State’s right to tax the residents of that contracting State.
Article 2
TAxES covERED
 1. This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a contracting State or of its political subdivisions 
or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
 2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, including 
taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, taxes on the total amounts of wages or salaries 
paid by enterprises.
 3. The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are in particular:
 a) In Türkiye;
 (i) the income tax; and
 (ii) the corporate tax;
  (hereinafter referred to as “Turkish tax”);

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
3A
 b) in Sri Lanka;
the income tax, including the income tax payable as a percentage of turnover of enterprises that entered into agreements 
with the board of Investment;
(hereinafter referred to as “Sri Lanka tax”).
 4. the Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date of signature 
of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the contracting States 
shall notify each other of any significant changes that have been made in their taxation laws. 
Article 3
GENERAL DEFINITIoNS
 1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
 a)  (i) the term “Türkiye” means the land territory, internal waters, the territorial sea and airspace above them, 
as well as the maritime areas over which Türkiye has sovereign rights or jurisdiction for the purposes of 
exploration, exploitation and preservation of natural resources, whether living or non-living pursuant to 
international law, 
  (ii) the term “Sri Lanka” means the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as defined in 
the constitution, including its land territory, internal waters and territorial sea, air space above them as 
well as the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf where the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka exercise or may hereafter exercise sovereign rights and jurisdiction in conformity with international 
law and its national legislation;
 b) the terms “a contracting State” and “the other contracting State” mean Türkiye or Sri Lanka as the context 
requires;
 c) the term “person” includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons;
 d) the term “company” means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
 e) the terms “enterprise of a contracting State” and “enterprise of the other contracting State” mean respectively 
and enterprise carried on by a resident of a contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the 
other contracting State;
 f) the term “international traffic” means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a contracting 
State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other contracting State;
 g) the term “competent authority” means:
  (i) in Türkiye, the Minister of Treasury and Finance or his authorised representative; and 
  (ii) in Sri Lanka, the commissioner General of Inland Revenue or an authorised representative of the 
commissioner General;
 h) the term “national”, in relation to a contracting State, means:
  (i) any individual possessing the nationality or citizenship of that contracting State; and 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
4A
  (ii) any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in that 
contracting State;
  i) the term “tax” means Sri Lanka tax or Turkish tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount which 
is payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Agreement applies or which 
represents a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes.
 2. As regards the application of the Agreement at any time by a contracting State any term not defined therein shall, unless 
the context otherwise requires or the competent authorities agree to a different meaning pursuant to the provisions of 
Article 24, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the purposes of the taxes to which 
the Agreement applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailing over a meaning given to 
the term under other laws of that State.
Article 4
RESIDENT
 1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term “resident of a contracting State” means any person who, under the 
laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile residence, legal head office, place of incorporation 
or registration, place of management or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State and any 
political subdivision or local authority thereof. This term,  however, does not include any person who is liable to tax 
in that State in respect only of income from sources in that State.
 2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both contracting States, then his status 
shall be determined as follows:
 a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if 
he has a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State 
with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
 b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent 
home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an 
habitual abode;
 c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the 
State of which he is a national;
 d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the contracting States shall 
settle the question by mutual agreement.
 3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both contracting 
States, the competent authorities of the contracting States shall endeavour to determine by mutual agreement the 
contracting State of which such person shall be deemed to be a resident for the purposes of the Agreement, having 
regard to its legal head office, its place of effective management, the place where it is incorporated or otherwise 
constituted or registered and any other relevant factors. In the absence of such agreement, such person shall not be 
entitled to any relief or exemption from tax provided by this Agreement except to the extent and in such manner as 
may be agreed upon by the competent authorities of the contracting States.
Article 5
PERMANENT ESTAbLIShMENT
 1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term “permanent establishment” means a fixed place of business through 
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
5A
 2. The term “permanent establishment” includes especially:
 a) a place of management;
 
 b) a branch;
 
 c) an office;
 
 d) a factory;
 e) a workshop;
 f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources; and
 
 g) premises used as a sales outlet.
 3. The term “permanent establishment” likewise encompasses:
 a) a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project, a drilling rig or ship used for the exploration 
or development of natural resources, including supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only where 
such site, project or activities continue for a period of more than 183 days within any twelve month period 
commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned;
 b) the furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise through employees or other 
personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only where acitivities of that nature continue within 
a contracting State for a period or periods aggregating more than 183 days within any twelve month period 
commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned.
 4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term “permanent establishment” shall be deemed not to 
include:
 a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the 
enterprise;
 b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage 
or display;
 c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of 
processing by another enterprise;
 d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of 
collecting information, for the enterprise;
 e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other 
activity;
 f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in subparagraphs 
a) to e),
  Provided that such activity or, in the case of subparagraph f), the overall activity of the fixed place of business, 
is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
6A
 5. Paragraph 4 shall not apply to a fixed place of business that is used or maintained by an enterprise if the same enterprise 
or a closely related enterprise carries on business activities at the same place or at another place in the same contracting 
State and 
 a) that place or other place constitutes a permanent establishment for the enterprise or the closely related enterprise 
under the provisions of this Article, or 
 b) the overall activity resulting from the combination of the activities carried on by the two enterprises at the 
same place, or by the same enterprise or closely related enterprises at the two places, is not of a preparatory or 
auxiliary character,
  Provided that the business activities carried on by the two enterprises at the same place, or by the same enterprise 
of closely related enterprises at the two places, constitute complementary functions that are part of a cohesive 
business operation.
 
 6. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person other than an agent of an independent status to 
whom paragraph 8 applies is acting in a contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other contracting State, 
that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned contracting State in respect 
of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person:
 
 a) has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless 
the activities  of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed  
place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions 
of that paragraph, or
 b) has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise 
from which he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise.
 7. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a contracting State shall, except 
in regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other contracting State if it collects 
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of 
an independent status to whom paragraph 8 applies.
 
 8. An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a contracting State merely because it carries 
on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status, 
provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. Where, however, a person acts exclusively 
or almost exclusively on behalf of one or more enterprises to which it is closely related, that person shall not be 
considered  to be an independent agent within the meaning of this paragraph with respect to any such enterprise.
 9. The fact that a company which is a resident of a contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a 
resident of the other contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent 
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
 10. For the purposes of this Article, a person or enterprise is closely related to an enterprise if, based on all the relevant 
facts and circumstances, one has control of the other or both are under the control of the same persons or enterprises. 
In any case, a person or enterprise shall be considered to be closely related to an enterprise if one possesses directly 
or indirectly more than 50 per cent of the beneficial interest in the other (or, in the case of a company, more than 50 
per cent of the aggregate vote and value of the company’s shares or of the beneficial equity interest in the company) 
or if another person or enterprise possesses directly or indirectly more than 50 per cent of the beneficial interest (or, 
in the case of a company,  more than 50 per cent of the aggregate vote and value of the company’s shares or of the 
beneficial equity interest in the company) in the person and the enterprise or in the two enterprises.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
7A
Article 6
INcoME FRoM IMMovAbLE PRoPERTy
 1. Income derived by a resident of a contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or 
forestry) situated in the other contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
 
 2. The Term “immovable property” shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the contracting State in which 
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property, 
livestock and equipment used in agriculture (including the breeding and cultivation of fish) and forestry, rights to 
which the provisions of general law respecting landed property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to 
variable or fixed payments as conderation for the working of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other 
natural resources; ships and aircraft shall not be regarded as immovable property.
 
 3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form of 
immovable property.
 
 4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and 
to income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
buSINESS PRoFITS
 1. The profits of an enterprise of a contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on 
business in the other contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries 
on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is 
attributable to a) that permanent establishment, or b) sales in that other State of  goods or merchandise of the same 
or similar kind as those sold through that permanent establishment.
 2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a contracting State carries on business in the other 
contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each contracting State be 
attributed to that  permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and 
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly 
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
 3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are 
incurred for the purposes of the permanent establishment, including executive and General administrative expenses 
so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere.
 4. In so far as it has been customary in a contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent 
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in 
paragraph 2 shall preclude that contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as 
may be customary; the method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordacne 
with the principles contained in this Article.
 5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent 
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
 
 6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be 
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
 
 7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then the 
provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
8A
Article 8
ShIPPING AND AIR TRANSPoRT
 1. Profits derived in a contracting State by an enterprise of the other contracting State from the operation of ships in 
international traffic may be taxed in the first - mentioned State, but the tax so charged shall be reduced by an amount 
equal to 50 per cent thereof.
 2. Profits from the operation of aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in the contracting State of which 
the enterprise operating the aircraft is a resident.
 3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or 
an international operating agency.
Article 9
ASSocIATED ENTERPRISES
 1. where
 a) an enterprise of a contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of 
an enterprise of the other contracting State, or
 b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a 
contracting State and an enterprise of the other contracting State,
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations 
which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but 
for those conditions, have  accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, 
may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
 2. Where a contracting State includes in the profits of an enerprise of that State and taxes accordingly-profits on which  
an enterprise of the other contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are 
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first mentioned State if the conditions made between the 
two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State 
shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits, if it considers such 
adjustment justified. In determining such adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement 
and the competent authorities of the contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
 3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not apply where judicial, administrative or other legal proceedings have resulted in 
a final ruling that by actions giving rise to an adjustment of profits under paragraph 1, one of the enterprises concerned 
is liable to penalty with respect to fraud, gross negligence or willful default.
Article 10
DIvIDENDS
 1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a contracting State to a resident of the other contracting State 
may be taxed in that other State.
 2. however, such dividends may also be taxed in the contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a 
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other 
contracting State the tax so charged shall not exceed:

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
9A
 a) 7, 5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company which holds directly at 
least 10 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividends;
 b) 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.
 
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
 
 3. The term “dividends” as used in this Article means income from shares, “jouissance” shares or “jouissance” rights, 
founders’ shares or other rights, not being debt claims, participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate 
rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State of which the 
company making the distribution is a resident.
 4. The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of a 
contracting State, carries on business in the other contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is 
a resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal 
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively 
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of article 7 or article 14, as 
the case may be, shall apply.
 5. Where a company which is a resident of a contracting State derives profits or income from the other contracting State, 
that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are 
paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively 
connected with a permanent establishment situated in that other State, nor subject the company’s undistributed profits 
to at tax on the company’s undistributed profits, even if the dividends  paid or the undistributed profits consist wholly 
or partly of profits or income arising in such other State.
Article 11
INTEREST
 1. Interest arising in a contracting State and paid to a resident of the other contracting State may be taxed in that other 
State.
 2. however, such interest may also be taxed in the contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that 
State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other contracting State, the tax so charged shall 
not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.
 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a contracting State and derived by the Government 
of the other contracting State, including a political subdivision or a local authority thereof, the central bank or any 
financial institution wholly owned by that Government, shall be exempt from tax in the first-mentioned State.
 4. The term “interest” as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured by 
mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor’s profits, and in particular, income from 
government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such 
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of 
this Article.
 5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of a 
contracting State, carries on business in the other contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
10A
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated 
therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent 
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
 6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however, 
the person paying the interest, whether that person is a resident of a contracting State or not, has in a contracting 
State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is 
paid was incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall 
be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
 7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and 
some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount 
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the 
provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments 
shall remain taxable according to the laws of each contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of 
this Agreement.
Article 12
RoyALTIES
 1. Royalties arising in a contracting State and paid to a resident of the other contracting State may be taxed in that other 
State.
 2. however, such royalties may also be taxed in the contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws of 
that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties is a resident of the other contracting State, the tax so charged 
shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties.
 3. The term “Royalties” as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or 
the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films, or films or tapes 
used for radio or television broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, computer software programme, 
plan, secret formula or process, or for the use of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific equipment or 
for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience.
 4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of a 
contracting State, carries on business in the other contracting State in which the royalties arise, through a permanent 
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated 
therein and the right or property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected with such permanent 
establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
 5. Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where however, 
the person paying the royalties, whether he is a resident of a contracting State or not, has in a contracting State a 
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the right or property giving rise to the royalties is 
effectively connected, and such royalties are borne by such permanent estabishment or fixed base, then such royalties 
shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
 6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and 
some other person, the amount of the royalties, having regard to the use, right or information for which they are paid, 
exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such 
relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part 
of othe payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each contracting State, due regard being had to the 
other provisions of this Agreement.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
11A
Article 13
cAPITAL GAINS
 1. Gains derived by a resident of a contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6 
and situated in the other contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
 2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment 
which an enterprise of a contracting State has in the other contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a 
fixed base available to a resident of a contracting State in the other contracting State for the purpose of performing 
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or 
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
 3. Gains derived by a resident of a contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international 
traffic, or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft shall be taxable only in the State.
 4. Gains derived by a resident of a contracting State from the alienation of shares or comparable interests, such as 
interests in a partnership, may be taxed in the other contracting State if, at any time during the 365 days preceding 
the alienation, these shares or comparable interests derived more than 50 per cent of their value directly or indirectly 
from immovable property, as defined in Article 6, situated in that other State.
 5. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4, shall be taxable only 
in the contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
INDEPENDENT PERSoNAL SERvIcES
 1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a contracting State in respect of professional services or other 
activities of an independent character shall be taxable only in that State unless he has a fixed base regularly available 
to him in the other contracting State for the purpose of performing his activities. If he has such a fixed base, the 
income may be taxed in the other State but only so much of it as is attributable to that fixed base.
 2. The term “professional services” includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching 
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accountants.
Article 15
DEPENDENT PERSoNAL SERvIcES
 1. Subject to the provisions of article 16, 18, 19 and 20, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a 
resident  of a contracting state in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is 
exercised in the other contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom 
may be taxed in that other State.
 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a contracting State in resepect  
of an employment exercised in the other contracting State shall be taxable only in the first - mentioned State if:
 a) the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any 
twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, and 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
12A
 b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and 
 c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other 
State.
 3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment exercised 
abroad a ship or aircraft operated  in international traffic by an enterprise of a contracting State shall be taxable only 
in that State.
Article 16
DIREcToRS’ FEES
 1. Directors’ fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a contracting State in his capacity as a member 
of the board of directors or any other similar organ of a company which is a resident of the other contracting State 
may be taxed in that other State.
 2. Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a resident of a contracting State in his capacity as an official 
in a top-level managerial position of a company which is a resident of the other contracting State may be taxed in 
that other State.
Article 17
ENTERTAINERS AND SPoRTSPERSoNS
 1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a contracting State as an 
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from that 
resident’s  personal activities as such exercised in the other contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
 2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson acting as such accrues not 
to the entertainer of sportsperson but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 
14 and 15, be taxed in the contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or sportsperson are exercised.
 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, income derived from activities referred to in paragraph 1 
performed under a cultural agreement or arrangement between the contracting States shall be exempt from tax in the 
contracting State in which the activities are exercised if the visit to that State is wholly or substantially  supported 
by funds of either contracting State, a political subdivision, a local authority or public institution thereof.
Article 18
PENSIoNS
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, any pensions or other similar remuneration including annuities paid to 
a residente of one of the contracting States from a source in the other contracting State in consideration of past employment  
or services in that other contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
Article 19
GovERNMENT SERvIcE
 1. a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration paid by a contracting State or a political subdivision or a local 
authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall 
be taxable only in that State.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
13A
 b) however, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other contracting 
State if the services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:
  (i) is a national of that State; or 
  (ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
 2. a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions and other similar remuneration paid by, or out of 
funds created by, a contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in 
respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.
  b) however, such pensions and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other contracting State if 
the individual is a resident of, and a national of, that State.
 3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages, pensions, and other similar remuneration in 
respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a contracting State or a political subdivision 
or a local authority thereof.
Article 20
STuDENTS AND TEAchERS
 
 1. Payments which a student or business apprentice or trainee who is or was immediately before visiting a contracting  
State a resident of the other contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the purpose 
of his education or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in 
that State, provided that such payments arise from sources outside that state.
 2. Likewise, remuneration which a professor, a researcher, a teacher or an instructor who is or was immediately before 
visiting a contracting State a resident of the other contracting State, and who is present in the first-mentioned State 
for the primary purpose of teaching or engaging in scientific research for a period or periods not exceeding two years 
receives for his personal services with regard to teaching or research shall be exempt from tax in the first-mentioned 
State, provided that such payments arise from sources outside the first-mentioned State.
 3. Paragraph 2 of this Article shall not apply to remuneration which a professor, a researcher, a teacher or an instructor 
receives for conducting research if the research is undertaken primarily for the private benefit of a specific person or 
persons.
Article 21
oThER INcoME
 1. Items of income of a resident of a contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this 
Agreement shall be taxable only in that State.
 2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in 
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a contracting State, carries on business 
in the other contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State 
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the 
income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions 
of Article 7 of Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
14A
Article 22
ELIMINATIoN oF DoubLE TAxATIoN
 1. Where a resident of a contracting State derives income which may be taxed in the other contracting State in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement (except to the extent that these provisions allow taxation by that other State 
solely because the income is also income derived by a resident of that State), the first-mentioned State shall allow as 
a deduction from the tax on the income of that resident, an amount equal to the income tax paid in that other State.
  Such deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the income tax, as computed before the deduction is given,  
  which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in that other State.
 2. Where in accordance with any provision of the Agreement income derived by a resident of a contracting State is 
exempt from tax in that State, such State may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining income 
of such resident, take into account the exempted income.
Article 23
NoN-DIScRIMINATIoN
 1. Nationals of a contracting State shall not be subjected in the other contracting State to any taxation or any requirement 
connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which 
nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be subjected.
 2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a contracting State has in the other contracting 
State shall not be less favourably  levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State 
carrying on the same activities.
 3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12, apply, 
interest, royalties and other disbursements disbursements paid by an enterprise of a contracting State to a resident  of 
the other contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible 
under the same conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
 4. Enterprises of a contracting  State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned  or controlled, directly or indirectly, 
by one or more residents of the other contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any 
taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected 
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
 5. These provisions shall not be construed as obliging a contracting State to grant to residents of the other contracting 
State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil status or family 
responsibilities which it grants to its own residents.
 6. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and 
description.
Article 24
MuTuAL AGREEMENT PRocEDuRE
 1. Where a resident of a contracting State considers that the actions of one or both of the contracting States result or 
will result for him in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement , he may,  irrespective of the 
remedies provided by the domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the contracting 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
15A
State of which he is a resident or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 23, to that of the contracting State of 
which he is a national. The case must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting 
in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
 2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arrive 
at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other contracting 
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreement reached 
shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the contracting States.
 3. The competent authorities of the contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties  
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the 
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
 4. The competent authorities of the contracting States may communicate with each other directly, including through a 
joint commission consisting of themselves or their representatives, for the purpose of reaching an agreement in the 
sense of the preceding paragraphs.
Article 25
ExchANGE oF INFoRMATIoN
 1. The competent authorities of the contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeably relevant for 
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws concerning 
taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or 
local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Agreement. The exchange of information is 
not restricted by Article 1 and 2.
 2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner 
as information obtained under the domestic laws of  that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities 
(including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or 
prosecution in respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight 
of the above. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the 
information in public court prceedings or in judicial decisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, information received 
by a contracting State may be used for other purposes when such information may be used for such other purposes 
under the laws of both States and the competent authority of the supplying State authorises such use.
 3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a contracting State the obligation:
  a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative pratice of that or of the other 
contracting State;
  b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of 
that or of the other contracting State;
  c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret 
or  trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public).
 4. If information is requested by a contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other contracting State shall 
use its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not 
need such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the 
limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a contracting State to decline 
to supply information solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
16A
 5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a contracting State to decline to supply information 
solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in an agency 
or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.
Article 26
MEMbERS oF DIPLoMATIc MISSIoNS AND coNSuLAR PoSTS
Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under 
the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 27
ENTITLEMENT To bENEFITS
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement, a benefit under this Agreement shall not be granted in respect 
of an item of income if it is reasonable to conclude, having regard to all relevant facts and circumstances, that obtaining 
that benefit was one of the principal purposes of any arrangement or transaction that resulted directly or indirectly in 
that benefit, unless it is established that granting that benefit in these circumstances would be in accordance with the 
object and purpose of the relevant provisions of this Agreement.
Article 28
ENTRy INTo FoRcE AND AMENDMENT 
 1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the receipt of the last written notification by which the contracting 
States notify each other, through diplomatic channels, of the completion of their internal legal procedures required 
for the entry into force of this Agreement.
 2. The provisions of this Agreement shall have effect:
  a) in Türkiye,
  (i) with regard to taxes withheld at source, in respect of amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of 
January next following the date upon which this Agreeement enters into force; and 
  (ii) with regard to other taxes, in respect of taxable years beginning on or after the first day of January next 
following the date upon which this Agreement enters into force;
  b) in Sri Lanka,
  (i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, on amounts paid or credited on or after 1 April of the calendar year 
next following that in which the Agreement enters into force.
  (ii) in respect of taxes on income for any taxable year beginning on or after 1 April of the calendar year next 
following that in which the Agreement enters into force.
 3. This Agreement may be amended by mutual written consent of the contracting States at any time. The amendments 
shall enter into force in accordance with the same legal procedure prescribed under the first paragraph of this Article.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
17A
Article 29
TERMINATIoN
1. This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a contracting State. Either contracting State may terminate
the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving written notice of termination at least six months before the end
of any calendar year beginning after the expiration of five years from the date of entry into force of the Agreement.
2. In such event, the Agreement shall cease to have effect:
a) in Türkiye,
(i) with regard to taxes withheld at source, in respect of amounts paid or credited after the end of calendar
year in which such notice is given; and
(ii) with regard to other taxes, in respect of taxable years beginning after the end of calendar year in which
such notice is given;
b) in Sri Lanka,
(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, on amounts paid or credited on or after 1 April of the calendar year
next following that in which the notice is given;
(ii) in respect of taxes on income, for any taxable year beginning on or after 1 April of the calendar year next
following that in which the notice is given.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized hereto, have signed this Agreement.
Done in duplicate at colombo this 28th day of January, 2022, in the Sinhala, Turkish and English languages, all three texts 
being equally authentic. In case of divergence between the texts, the English text shall prevail.
FoR ThE GovERNMENT oF ThE  FoR ThE GovERNMENT oF ThE
DEMocRATIc SocIALIST REPubLIc REPubLIc oF TüRkIyE
oF SRI LANkA                   MEvLüT ÇAvuŞoĞlu
PRoF. GAMINI LAkShMAN PEIRIS                                                              MINISTER oF FoREIGN AFFAIRS
FoREIGN MINISTER
PRoTocoL
At the moment of signing the Agreement between the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
and the Government of the Republic of Türkiye for the Elimination of Double  Taxation with respect to Taxes on 
income and the Prevention of Tax Evasion and Avoidance, the undersigned have agreed that the following provisions 
shall form and integral part of the Agreement:
1. In respect of Subparagraph a) of paragraph 3 of Article 5, in the event that pursuant to any other convention, Agreement
or Protocol signed by Sri Lanka after the date of signature of this Agreement, with a third State, Sri Lanka agrees,
concerning the provision that corresponds to subparagraph a) of paragraph 3 of Article 5 of this Agreement, to a time
period that is longer than what is provided  in this  paragraph, then longest time period shall apply for the purpose of
subparagraph a) of paragraph 3 of Article 5, with effect from the date on which the longest time period under such
other 
convention, Agreement or Protocol becomes effective.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 20.07.2022
18A
2. In respect of paragraph 1 of Article 8, it is understood that if after the date of signature of this Agreement, Sri Lanka
were to sign a convention, an Agreement, or a Protocol with a third State, the effect of which would be that the taxation
of shipping income derived by an enterprise of that third State from the operation of ships in international traffic is
less burdensome than the taxation of shipping income provided for in this Agreement, the provisions of article 8 of
this Agreement shall apply in accordance with the provisions of that 
convention, Agreement of Protocol concerning
shipping income.
3. With reference to paragraph 3 of Article 10, it is understood that
 a) In the case of Türkiye, the term “dividends” shall also include income derived from an investment fund and
investment trust;
b) In the case of Sri Lanka, income derived from and investment fund and investment trust shall be treated as
dividends or business profits as per the provisions of its domestic law.
4. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, profits of a company which is a resident of a contracting
State carrying on business in the other contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein may, after
having been taxed under Article 7, be taxed on the remaining amount in the contracting State in which the permanent
establishment is situated and in accordance with the laws of that State provided that the rate of tax so charged shall
not exceed 7, 5 per cent. This paragraph shall not override Article 27 of this Agreement.
5. With reference to paragraph 2 of Article 24, it is understood that the competent authorities shall also endeavour to
agree on the application of domestic law provisions regarding  interest and administrative penalties related to the case.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized hereto, have signed this Protocol.
Done in duplicate at colombo this 28th day of January 2022, in the Sinhala, Turkish and English languages, all three texts 
being  equally authentic. In case of divergence between  the texts, the English text shall prevail.
FoR ThE GovERNMENT oF ThE  FoR ThE GovERNMENT oF ThE
DEMocRATIc SocIALIST REPubLIc REPubLIc oF TüRkIyE
oF SRI LANkA                                                                    MEvLüT ÇAvuŞoĞlu
PRoF. GAMINI LAkShMAN PEIRIS     MINISTER oF FoREIGN AFFAIRS
FoREIGN MINISTER
EoG 07-0141 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.