

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 422
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 416
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"060 – 2018 fmnrjdß ui 23 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'02'23
No. 2,060  –  fRiday ,  fEbRuaRy 23, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th March, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd March, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
413-b 81254- 5,403 (02/2018)
N. B.–   Part iV (a) of the Gazette No. 2,059 of 16.02.2018 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
414
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
415
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
416
Posts – vacant
JuDICIAL  SERvICE  COmmISSION
Applications called for the Post of Assistant 
Investigation Officer
aPPLicatioNS are called to recruit an officer for the post 
of Assistant Investigation Officer at the Judicial Service 
commission Secretariat.
2. Salary Scale.– in terms of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 Salary scale entitled 
to the post is SL 1-2016. Which is Rs. 47,615-10x1335-
8x1630-17x2170- Rs. 110,895/- the initial salary step will 
be step 03 (Rs. 50,285/-) of this Salary scale. An Efficiency 
bar Examination before Rs. 58,295/- candidates who have 
reached relevant salary step having completed 45 years of 
age will be released from the Efficiency Bar Examination. 
(Salary will be paid in terms of Schedule ii of P.a. circular 
03/2016 till 01.01.2020).
3. Age limit.– Should be not less than 21 years and not 
more than 35 years of age as at the last date of receiving 
applications. the upper age limit is not applicable for 
those who are already employed in Public Service holding 
permanent and pensionable posts.
4. Educational and other qualifications :
 (a) an attorney-at-Law who has been in active 
practice for a period not less than 04 years ;
or
 (b) An Officer in Grade II of the Sri Lanka Judicial 
Registrars Service ;
 or
 (c) An officer with service experience in Government 
Legal institutions for at least 07 years and 05 years 
service in class i of General clerical Service/ 
Grade i of Public Management assistants' 
Service or an officer with service experience in 
Government Legal institution for at least 12 years 
and 10 years service in class ii Segment 'a' of 
General clerical assistants' Service.
Note.- Experience in court Procedure, accounting, 
administration and auditing will be considered as 
an additional qualification.
5. it is compulsory that all the candidates shall have 
satisfied all the qualifications relevant to the post on or 
before the date of calling for applications.
6. all the candidates, 
(a) Should be of excellent character and good health.
(b) Should be citizen of Sri Lanka.
7. The post is permanent and pensionable Officers should 
comply to policy decisions taken by the Government in the 
future about the pension scheme entitled.
8. the candidates should be able to provide the documents 
given below when requested :
 (a) Birth certificate,
 (b) Certificate of the highest educational qualification,
 (c) Certificate of the professional qualification,
 (d) Highest educational certificate in Sinhala/Tamil/
English.
 (e) Certificates in support of experience in Court 
Procedure accounting, auditing administration 
Work, investigations and disciplinary work (if 
available).
9. applications should be submitted in accordance 
with the relevant specimen from the applications which 
do not confirm to the specimen application form and the 
incomplete applications will be rejected without any notice. 
any disadvantage caused due to submitting incomplete 
applications will have to be borne by the candidate himself.
10. Dully filled applications should be forwarded by 
registered pots personally to the address "Secretary, 
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat, hulftsdrop, 
Colombo 12" on or before 15.03.2018.
11. the top left hand corner of the envelope containing 
the application should be clearly marked "Recruitment to 
the post of Assistant Investigation Officer".
12. Applications from officers in Public Service/                 
co-operations should be forwarded through their Heads of 
the departments/co-operations.
13. No other officer in this office except the Secretary, 
Judicial Service commission should be contacted in relation 
to the applications or any other relevant document.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
417
14. attention of the candidates is focused to the 
general conditions relevant to Public Service appointments 
Published in the Gazette of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka.
 Sanjeewa Somaratne,
 Secretary,
 Judcial Service commission.
Judicial Service commission Secretariat,
colombo 12.
february 2018.
JudiciaL  SERVicE  coMMiSSioN
Specimen application form for the poSt of aSSiStant 
inveStigation officer
01. Name in full (block letters)   :––––––––––––.
02.   (i) Permanent address :––––––––––––.
   (ii) Official Address :––––––––––––.
03. Nationality :––––––––––––.
04.   (i)  date of birth :––––––––––––.
   (ii)  age :––––––––––––.
05. (i)  Gender: Male/female :––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Married? unmarried? Widow? :––––––––––––.
 (iii)  Give details if spouse is employed in the Public 
Service/ co-operation or Private institution :              
––––––––––––.
06. Educational/Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
 (with dates)
07. Give full details relevant to (a), (b) and (c) and the note 
in paragraph 04 of the Gazette Notification :–––––––––.
 (Service periods with dates)
08. (i)  if an attorney at Law, mention the date of 
Enrolment :––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Period of service in active practice  :––––––––––.
  (with dates)
09. Give full service details if employed in Government 
Service/co-operation :––––––––––––.
 (Service periods with dates)
10. Highest examination passed :
   (i) in Sinhala :––––––––––––.
   (ii) in tamil :––––––––––––.
   (iii) in English :––––––––––––.
11. Persons from whom personal information can be 
ascertained :––––––––––––.
 (Should be responsible persons who are personally 
known to you)
 (Not applicable for persons employed in Government/
co-orporations)
 (i) Name :––––––––––––.
  address :––––––––––––.
  occupation :––––––––––––.
  Period of time know by you :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Name :––––––––––––.
  address :––––––––––––.
  occupation :––––––––––––.
  Period of time know by you :––––––––––––.
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in 
this aplication are true and accurate. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department/Co-orporation 
i hereby declare that the information furnished by the 
officer Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... in paragraph 
09 of this application are correct according to his/her 
personal file. He/She can be/cannot be released from the 
post if selected for above post. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of department/
  co-orporation. 
date :––––––––––––.
02–609
–––––––––––––––––
PubLIC  SERvICES  COmmISSION
Recruitment for the Post of Legal Officer (Executive 
Category Grade iii) on Open basis ministry of Local 
Government and Provincial Councils
aPPLicatioNS are called from citizens of Sri Lanka with 
qualifications specified in this notification to fill a vacancy 
in the post of Legal Officer of the Ministry of Provincial 
councils and Local Government.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
418
01. Method of recruitment.– applicants who obtained maximum marks from a structured interview conducted by 
an interview board appointed by Public services Commission out of applicants who have completed qualifications specified 
in the notification will be recruited to fill the existing vacancy. Structured interview will be held in conformity with the 
marking scheme (under No. 06) approved by Public Services commission.
02. Qualifications :
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications :
  Should have possessed a degree in Law from a university recognized by university Grants commission 
or having taking oath as a lawyer of the Supreme court.
 (ii) experience :
  Should have an active professional service period not less than three (03) years after taking oath as an 
attorney at law.
 (iii) Physical Qualifications :
  Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the isalnd and to perform 
duties of the post.
 (iv) Other :
   * Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
   * Should be of excellent character
   * Should have proficiency in English
  * Requisite qualifications for this post should have been completed in every aspect as at the closing date.
03. Service occupying conditions and service conditions :
 (i) this post is permenent and pensionable you will be subject to any policy decision that will be taken by 
the government on your pension scheme. you shall contribute for the Widows/Widowers' and orphans' 
Pension scheme. you should make contribution time to time as ordered by the Government.
 (ii) This appointment will be subject to a probation period of three (03) years Officers should pass the first 
efficiency bar examination within three years of the appointment.
 (iii) Every Officer should obtain the proficiency in the other official language in addition to the before exceeding 
five years from the appointment and the officers who have been recruited in medium other than an official 
language should obtain required proficiency in official languages within  their probationary period as per 
the provisions of Public administrative circular 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and circulars incidental thereto.
 (iv) this appointment is also subject to the procedural rules of Public Services commission, financial 
regulations, provisions of Establishments code, provisions in the recruitment procedure of the posts of 
Executive category of the Ministry of Provincial councils and Local Government (for the post of Legal 
Officer) and the amendments and provisions that may be made thereto in future.
04. Age Limit.– the applicant should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age.
05. Salary Scale.– Monthly Salary Scale. - Rs. 47,615-10x1,335-8-17x2170-Rs.110,895/-. (Salary segment is SL-
1-2016 of P.a.c No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. Salaries will be paid in terms of the schedule ii of the provisions of this 
circular.)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
419
06. Marking scheme for the structured interview :
S. No Subject Marks Maximum Marks
01. Additional Educational qualifications
degree in Law from a recognized university
-first class
-Second class (upper)
-Second class (Lower)
First Class in the final year of Law College
Second Class in the final year of Law College
Note: 10 marks should be given only First Class is obtained in the final exam
(Marks will be given only for the maximum qualification. Either for the degree 
(LLB) or Law College qualification)
20
15
10
15
10
20
02. Additional Professional Qualifications
Post Graduate Diploma in relevant field or Post Graduate Diploma in law issued 
by an institute recognized by the university Grants commission (05 marks per 
diploma)
Diploma of not less than six months in relevant field offered by an institute 
recognized by the government.
(3 marks per diploma)
Certificate course of not less than three months in relevant field offered by an 
institute recognized by the government. (2 marks per certificate course)
15
03. Additional Experience
Experience as attorney at Law in Government or private sector
- Maximum 30 marks - five marks per year
- not less than six months and not more than one year -  02 marks
(Except three years of service period engaged in service as an attorney at Law, to 
acquire basic qualifications.)
(Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate issued by an Attorney 
at Law or President's counsel or judge with a service period not less than 20 years)
30
04. Proficiency in English Language (Maximum marks 15)
Post graduate/degree/post LLb degree/LLb degree studied in English medium.
(all relevant question papers should be answered in English medium)
English Language diploma from a university recognize by university Grants 
commission or an institution recognized by the government. (01 year or 1500hrs)
English Language Certificate course from a university recognized by University 
Grants commission or an institution recognized by the government.
06 months/720 hours
03 months/360 hours
(Marks are given only for the maximum qualification.)
15
10
07
05
15

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
420
S. No Subject Marks Maximum Marks
05. Proficiency in Information Technology (Maximum marks 15)
Should have possessed a degree in information technology as a main subject 
from a university recognized by university Grants commission
a diploma on information technology not less than one (01) year or 1500 hours 
from a government recognized institute
A certificate course on information technology of 06 months/720 hours
03 months/360 hours
from a government recognized institute 
(Marks are given only for the maximum qualification.)
15
10
07
05
15
06. marks to be given at the interview for skills 05
Total marks 100
07. Identity of candidate.– only the applicants who have submitted complete applications in every aspect will be 
called for the structured interview. Original copies of all certificates and duly certified copies of them should be submitted at 
the interview. Any of the following documents will be accepted to confirm the identity at the interview :
 (i)  National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons;
 (ii)  Valid passport
08. Method of Application :
 (i)  applications should be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or before 26.03.2018 
applications received after the due date will be rejected.
  Secretary,
  Ministry of Provincial councils and Local Government, 
  No. 330, union Place
  colombo 02
 (ii)  A specimen application is given at the end of the of this notification. Applicants should prepare their 
applications using A4 size papers as No. 1.1 to No. 5.1 in first page, No. 5.2 to No. 7 in second page and 
No. 8 to No. 9 in third page in applicant's own hand writing.
 (iii)  "Application for the post of Legal Officer" Should be mentioned at the top left corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application.
 (iv) the signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice of the 
Peace/ a Commissioner of Oaths/ Attorney at Law/ Notary Public/ a Commissioned Officer of three armed 
forces or an officer holding a permanent post in public service drawing a consolidated monthly salary of 
Rs. 32,807/- or above.
 (v)  candidates who are already in the Public or Provincial Public Services, should forward their applications 
through the respective Heads of their departments in which they are serving at present.
 (vi)  the applications which are not conformed to the prescribed specimen application will be rejected. No 
complaints will be admitted on loss or delay of applications.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
421
09.  Furnishing false particulars.– if any of the particulars 
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before 
the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. in case 
such falsehood or error is detected after the recruitment, 
action will be taken to discontinue your service, subject to 
relevant disciplinary actions being taken.
on order of the Public Service commission,
 H. 
t. Kamal pathmaSiri,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Provincial councils and
 Local Government.
Ministry of Provincial councils and 
Local Government,
colombo 02,
on 09th february, 2018.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN 
recruitment for the poSt of legal officer
miniStry of provincial councilS and local government
(For Office Use Only)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :- Mr/ Mrs/ Miss :––––––––––.
  (in block capitals) 
 1.2 full Name (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
 1.3 full Name (in Sinhala) :––––––––––.
 
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
 2.2  telephone Number :
  Residence :––––––––––.  Mobile :––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Ethnicity  :
  Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, Muslim - 4, other - 5
 3.2 Gender : female
   Male
 3.3 Marital Status: 
   Married   unmarried
 3.4 National identity card No. :
 3.5 date of birth: 
  date :–––––––. Month :–––––––.  year :–––––––. 
 3.6 age as at 26.03.2018 :
  days :––––––. Months :–––––––.  years :–––––––. 
4.0 4.1 Educational Qualifications in Legal Studies :
 (a)  (i)  university :––––––––––. 
  (ii)  date of Graduation :––––––––––.  
 
 (b)  (i)  Registration No. at the Law college :–––.
  (ii)  date of passing the Examination of Law 
college :––––––––––.
5.0 5.1 date of taking oaths as an attorney at Law at the 
Supreme court :––––––––––.
 5.2 Pass received for English Language at the G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination or G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
:––––––––––.
 5.3 active Experience as an attorney at Law (No. of 
years) :––––––––––.
  (Specify the time period and the mentor you have 
been practiced)
 5.4 Qualifications as per the paragraph 06 of the 
Gazette Notification :––––––––––.
Serial 
No.
Qualifications Institute Time
Period
01 additional Educational 
 Qualifications
02 additional Professional 
 Qualifications
03 additional Experience
04 English Language
05  information 
technology
6.0  Have you been convicted before a court of Law ? 
  y es / No
 6.1 (if "yes" explain) :–––––––––.
7.0  applicant's declaration :
 (a)  i do hereby declare that the particulars given by 
me in the application are true and correct. if my 
declaration is found to be false or incorrect, i am 
liable to be disqualified before selection and to 
dismissal if detected after the appointment without 
any compensation.
  ––––––––––––,
  applicant's Signature.
date :–––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
422
08.  attestation of applicant's Signature:
Should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Justice of the Peace/ a commissioner of oaths/ attorney 
at Law/ Notary Public/ a Commissioned Officer of three 
armed forces/ a Gazettes Police Office or an officer holding 
a permanent post in public service drawing a consolidated 
monthly salary of Rs. 32,807/- or above.
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms. ........................... (Name in 
full) who is submitting this application is personally known 
to me and he/she has placed his/her signature in my presence 
on the ..................... day of .................... under the above 
paragraph 07.
    
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester.
date :––––––––––.
Name of the attester :––––––––––.
Position :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.    
telephone No. :––––––––––.
(Should be supported by the official frank)
09.  If the applicant is in the Public Service, Certification of 
Head of the institution:
i certify that the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss .................. 
(Name in full) who is submitting this application is personally 
known to me and he/she has placed his/her signature in my 
presence on the ..............  day of .............  under the above 
paragraph 07.
i certify that his / her duties, attendance and conduct are 
................. He / She could / could not be released from the 
present post.
    
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of department Head.
date :––––––––––.
Name of certifying officer :––––––––––.
Position :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.    
telephone No. :––––––––––.
(Should be supported by the official frank)
02–853
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of fOREIGN AffAIRS
1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination and Second 
Language Test for the Officers of the Sri Lanka 
foreign Service – 2017 (2018)
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination 
and the Second Language Test for Officers in the Sri Lanka 
foreign Service will be held in colombo and in Sri Lanka 
Missions abroad in June 2018.  the oral examination will be 
held only in colombo.
02. the time table would be prepared enabling the 
candidates to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations at the 
same time.
03. Syllabus – Syllabus and other Provisions by which the 
First and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations are Governed 
and indicated in the respective Service Minute.
Syllabus and other provisions for the Second Language 
test are indicated in appendix “a” while syllabus and 
other provisions for the First and Second Efficiency Bar 
Examinations and for the foreign languages are indicated in 
appendix “b”.
Officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the 
Efficiency Bar Examination at one or more sittings.  Action 
will be taken to conduct Oral Tests for the officers who sit 
for the Second Language test at the same venue at the same 
time.
04. The subjects for which the officers should appear in 
the Efficiency Bar are as follows:
1St EfficiENcy baR
PaRt i
Subject   
No.
Subject Duration
hours
01.  finance  03
02.  History and Geography of Sri Lanka  03
PaRt ii
03.  Elementary constitutional Law and  
international Law   
03
04.  diplomatic Practice 03
05.  international affairs 03
06.          the Sri Lanka foreign Service 
Minute, foreign Ministry  
Regulations and compute Literacy 
03

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
423
2Nd EfficiENcy baR
PaRt i
Subject   
No.
Subject Duration
hours
21. Economic & Social development in 
Sri Lanka
 03
22.  administration 03
(a) Office systems & Organizational Methods
(b) Establishments code (V olume i & V olume ii)
PaRt ii
Subject   
No.
Subject Duration
hours
23. Elementary constitutional Law and 
international Law
03
24.   diplomatic Practice                     03
25.   international affairs 03
foREiGN LaNGuaGES
Subject   
No.
Subject Duration
hours
07. arabic 02         
08. french 02         
09. Russian 02         
10. Spanish           02         
11 Hindi     02         
12 chinese 02         
13 German 02         
14 Japanese      02         
15 italian 02         
16 Korean 02         
   SEcoNd LaNGuaGES
Subject   
No.
Subject Duration
hours
30 Sinhala (Written) 02
31 tamil (Written) 02
32 English (Written) 02
33 Sinhala (oral)
34 tamil (oral)
35 English (oral)
05. The attention of the Officers sitting for these 
Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to the Paragraph No. 5 
of the treasury circular No. 701 dated 04th September 1966 
which is reproduced below:
“departmental examinations (including Promotional 
and Efficiency Bar Examinations) - The medium 
for Promotional  Examinations as well as Efficiency 
bar Examinations should be the language in which 
the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to 
enter the Public Service or the Official Language.  In 
case where initial recruitment has been taken place 
without a competitive examination, the medium for 
Promotional/Efficiency Bar Examination should be 
the language in which the officer was qualified for 
entry into the Public Service or the Official Language.”
05.1  Issuance of Results:
 
 candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or 
above for each subject for a pass. two separate 
result sheets, containing results of individual 
candidates, pertaining to both first & Second 
Efficiency Bar Examination will be sent to 
Secretary foreign affairs by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
06. arrangements will be made by the commissioner-
General of Examinations for the candidates to answer the 
question papers in Sinhala, tamil or English, except for the 
question papers on foreign languages.  Medium applied to 
sit for the exam cannot be changed.
07. if a candidate is later found to have sat in a medium 
in which he is not entitled to sit, his candidature will be 
cancelled.
08. application forms should be prepared in an a-4 size 
paper as per the specimen appended to this notification, 
containing items 1-8 on the first page and the rest on the 
second page. both sides of the paper should be used.  
Applications should be filled in applicant's own handwriting 
clearly.  applications prepared in Sinhala and tamil medium 
should also bear the name of the examination in English.  
candidates appearing for both Examination should submit 
separate applications in respect of each Examination. 
 
Since the applications which are not in conformity with 
the specimen and not provided with the required details will 
be rejected without notification. Applicants are advised to 
keep a photocopy of the application. before sending the 
application applicant should verify whether the completed 
application is in conformity with the specimen form given in 
the notification regarding the examination and all the details 
have been included in it and the receipt has been affixed to 
it.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
424
08.2. Penalty for furnishing false information:-y ou 
should be careful to provide correct information 
in perfecting the application. according to laws 
and regulations, if an applicant is found to be 
ineligible at any time before, during or after the 
examination his/her candidature is liable to be 
cancelled 
09. the examinations will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and candidates 
will be bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by 
the commissioner General for the conduct of examination. 
candidates are subject to the laws and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of the Examinations in 
relation to examination procedure and issuance of results. in 
case of violations of such laws and regulations, the candidate 
will be subject to a penalty imposed by the commissioner 
General of the Examinations.
10. all applicants should send their applications to the 
overseas administration division of the Ministry of foreign 
affairs to forward them to the commissioner General of 
Examinations, on or before 23 March 2018.  those who 
are serving in Sri Lanka Missions abroad should send their 
applications through the Heads of Mission.  any application 
received after the closing date will be rejected.
11.  admission cards will be issued by the 
commissioner General of Examination to all 
the applicants who had submitted duly perfected 
applications on or before the closing date of 
applications and receipts for the payment of 
examination fees as required as per the notification 
attached, on the presumption that only those who 
possess the qualifications have applied. A notice 
will be published in news papers to that effect 
by the department of Examinations as soon as 
admission cards are issued. if a candidate does 
not receive his/her admission even 02/03 days 
after the notification, it is advisable for him/her 
to make a request by fax with photocopies of the 
application and the receipt to the commissioner 
General of Examination.  it is also advised to 
indicate a fax number in the request enabling the 
commissioner General of Examination to fax 
a copy of the admission to the candidate. (the 
fax No. of the Organization and Foreign exams 
Branch, the department of Examinations is 
0112784232)
11.1  issuing an admission card to a candidate should 
not be considered that he/she has fulfilled the 
required qualifications to sit for the examination 
or for the post.
11.2  the applicant should get his/her signature placed 
in the application and admission card attested by 
the head of institution or an officer to whom the 
power is delegated by him.
12. Subsequent appeals by candidates who fail to comply 
with the requirements as stipulated in paragraph 11 above 
will not be entertained. candidates should sit for the 
examination at the examination hall assign to him/her.  Every 
candidate who appears for the examination should produce 
to the Supervisor of the examination hall, the admission 
card with his/her signature attested.  candidates who failed 
to produce his/her admission card will not be allowed to sit 
for the examination.
13. the following are the documents of identity 
acceptable at the examination centre:
(1) National identity card issued by the 
commissioner of Registration of Persons,
(2) Valid Passport
14. Candidates who sit for the examination for the first 
time are exempted from exam fees, while in the case of 
subsequent sittings fees will be levied on the following 
basis;
 (a) first sitting (whole examination or part thereof): 
free of charge
 (b) Each subsequent sitting :  
 Rs.  cts.
  complete examination 1,200 00
  one Subject 600 00
  oral test  300 00
the receipt obtained for the payment of fees at post 
office/sub post office in the island or Foreign Diplomatic 
Mission to the credit of to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the 
Commissioner General of Examinations should be firmly 
affixed to the application in the place provided.
you are kindly informed that no charges other than the 
examination fees will be made. Money orders or stamps will 
not be accepted for payment of examination fees. under 
no circumstances will the examination fees be rejected or 
transferred in respect of another examination. it will be 
useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
425
15. the decision of the Public Service commission will 
be final with regard to any matter that has not been mentioned 
in this notification.  The decision of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations will be the final with regard to the 
examinations.
16. in case of divergence or inconsistency among 
different texts of this notification published in Sinhala, 
tamil and English languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 
praSad KariyawaSam,
 Secretary,
 foreign affairs.
Ministry of foreign affairs,
Republic building,
colombo 01.
09
th february 2018.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
miniStry of foreign affariS
                                                              For office use only
1St aNd 2Nd EfficiENcy baR EXaMiNatioNS aNd 
SEcoNd LaNGuaGE tESt foR tHE officERS of 
tHE SRi LaNKa foREiGN SERVicE – 2017 (2018)
    Medium
 Sinhala -     2
 t amil -     3                     
 English -     4
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
01.  the examination applied for 
       (Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
examination Relevant 
No.
Efficiency Bar 1 1
Efficiency Bar 2 2
Second language 3
foreign language 4
02.  (i) Name in full (in English  block capitals) :––––––––. 
 (eg; HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa) 
  (ii)  Last name with initials :–––––––––.
   (in English block capitals. Put the initials after the 
last name Eg. GuNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.)
 (iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––.
03.  address (for dispatch of admission cards) :–––––––––.
 (in English block capitals)
04.  date of birth:
 date:                Month:              y ear:
05. National identity card No.
06. Sex:
 (Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
 Male     – 0
 female – 1
07. date of appointment to the Sri Lanka foreign Service
 date: Month:  y ear:
08. Present post :––––––––––.
09. Subjects offered should be clearly stated with the 
subject numbers given in para 04 of the notification.  
(applicants will be allowed to sit for subjects indicated 
in the application only.)
Subject Subject No.
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v. 
vi.
10. State whether the applicant had appeared for the whole 
examination or part thereof previously. if so, state the 
index number, subjects, year and month :––––––––––.
i, declare that the information furnished above is accurate 
and that, i am eligible to sit for this examination in the 
language medium indicated above.  further, i abide by 
the rules and regulations laid down by the commissioner 
General of Examinations with regard to the conduct of the 
examination.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
426
the receipt No. …………………….. for payment of 
examination fee is annexed.
fee paid :Rs. ……………………….
   
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Examination fees :
 (i) Post office/sub post office/Foreign Diplomatic 
Mission where the examination fee was paid.               
––––––––––.
 (ii) amount paid :––––––––––.
 (iii) date :––––––––––.
 (iv) Receipt number : ––––––––––.
original Receipt should be pasted here
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
commissioner General of Examinations,
forwarded.
i, do hereby certify that the information furnished above 
is accurate and that Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………..
is eligible to appear for this examination in the language 
medium indicated by him/her. i also attest the applicant’s 
signature and the examination fees have been paid and the 
receipt is attached herewith. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and designation of the 
                                                  Head of department.
date :–––––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
Appendix “A”
SiNHaLa
PaRt
the written paper will be of a two hour duration and 
candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or above in 
this paper for a pass. 
 it will contain questions on:
 (i) Grammar
 (ii) t ranslation of petitions or Gramaseva Niladhari’s 
reports written in Sinhala into English.
 (iii) Translation of an official letter or a document in 
English into Sinhala
 the oral test will consist of the following:
 (i) Interpret in Sinhala an official material written in 
English, so that the passage can be understood 
and taken down in writing by a Sinhala speaking 
person.
 (ii) Reading a petition in Sinhala.
 (iii) conversation and interpretation
  the purpose of the test will be to assess the 
candidates’ability of understanding Sinhala 
Language as it is spoken by different native 
speakers and of making him/herself understood 
both in common conversation and in the usual 
course of official business.
taMiL
the test in tamil will consist of a written part and an 
oral part.
the written paper will be of a two hour duration and 
candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or above in 
this paper for a pass.  it will contain questions on:
 (i) Grammar
 (ii) translation of petitions or Gramaseva Niladhari’s 
reports written in tamil into English.
 (iii) Translation of an official letter or a document in 
English into tamil.
the oral test will consist of the following:
 (i) Interpret in Tamil an official material written in 
English, so that the passage can be understood and 
taken down in writing by a tamil speaking person.
 (ii) Reading a petition in tamil.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
427
(b) fill in the blanks with the correct preposition 
(where necessary):
as assistant Secretary ……………. 16 
charge ……………....... 17 subjects. it was 
my duty to convene groups of officers dealing 
…………………………. 18 different aspects 
of development work in the Ministry …………. 
19 time to time.  they discussed ……………… 
20 various problems that they confronted and 
which they could not cope ……………………… 
21 on their own.  We were thus able to share our 
experience ………………………… 22 each other 
and make concrete proposals ……………….. 
23 the Secretary every month.  He in turn put 
……………………….. 24 his own plans for 
discussion ………………. 25 these meetings.
(c) underline the correct letters given within brackets 
that would complete the spelling of the following 
words:
 26. Har……………ment (rass/as/ass).
 27 Ember…………….(rass/as/ass).
 28 t ol………………….(arreance/erance/erence)
 29 Par………………..arian( liament/limen/liment)
 30 bal…………………..ing (let/lat/lot)
 31 itin……………………. (erary/array/erarie)
 32 Pers…………(everance/everence/ewerence)
 33 bour……………… (geoise/joursie/juwarsy)
 34 Prolet ……………………….. (ariet/ariat/eriyat)
 35 com………………ate (memorr/emor/memor)
(a) in each of the following statements underline the 
correct word within brackets:-
36 the inventory was checked by the board of 
(Survellance/Survey/Surveyors).
37 At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the 
accused officer had (contradicted/ contravened/
contaminated) the regulations.
38 Every receipt should have a (counterfoil/ 
counterfeit/ counterpane) for the purpose of 
audit.
39 there was a possibility that the prosecution 
had (fabricated/fumigated/promulgate) the 
evidence.
 (iii) conversation and interpretation.
  the purpose of the test will be to assess the 
candidates’ power of understanding tamil Language 
as it is spoken by different native speakers and of 
making him/herself understood both in common 
conversation and in the usual course of official 
business.
ENGLiSH
the English paper will be of a two hour duration and 
candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or above in this 
paper for a pass.  it will contain questions on:
 (i) Grammer
 (ii) comprehension
 (iii) Precis writing
 (iv) Report and letter writing
 (v) V ocabulary
  a  prototype of the question paper is furnished 
below for the information of candidates.
PaRt a
(a) fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb 
given within brackets:-
during the last war our country ………. 1 (be) 
a british colony ………….2 (take) a full part in 
the war effort.  consequently our tea, rubber and 
coconut ……………………… 3 (ship) to britain 
at very favourable prices and the foreign exchange 
we ………………. 4 (earn) ……………………… 
5 (accumulate) as assets.  again during the 
Korean war in the early fifties our products 
…………………. 6 (fetch) good prices and we 
……………………….. 7 (not have) any exchange 
problem.  However, political independence 
…………………….. 8 (not given rise) to any 
effort to …………………… 9 (build up) our 
economy we …………………………. 10 (be) a 
nation of consumers and we …………………… 
11 (Squander) our foreign exchange on consumer 
goods which ………………………… 12 (can 
produce) locally and incidentally diversified our 
economy.  over the last decade we ………………. 
13 (begin) to feel the pinch whenour primary 
products …………………. 14 (fail) to command 
good prices in the world market while our 
requirements of food both rice and subsidiary food 
stuffs ……………………….. 15 (rise) in price.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
428
40 (discrete/discretionary/discriminatory) power 
was given to the Head of the department under 
the relevant act.
41 the Police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush 
until the bribe taker arrived.
42 The entire staff turned upon (facilitate/ infiltrate/
felicitate) the watcher on his retirement.
43 in times of national crises we must avoid                                                        
(luxuriant/ luxurious) habits.
44 Martial music was played over the radio during 
height of the battle to keep up the (moral/
morale/morals) of the people.
45 candidates are advised to use (Stationary / 
Stationery) sparingly owning to the acute paper 
shortage.
(e)  underline the correct phrase in the brackets that 
means the same as the word or phrase underlined in 
each sentence.
46 in good management the boss should, support 
his staff in their work (back out/ back up/ back 
away)
47 the sales and replacement of stock amounted to 
over Rs. 5,000 (turn out/ turn up/ turn away).
48 We were warned at the start not to let out work 
get into arrears (set out/outset)
49 They younger son wasted his father’s wealth in 
a few years. (ran over/ran through)
50 I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred 
me from going (put away/put off).
Part b
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the 
questions set out below:
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, 
liberty, constitutional government, and respect for the law or 
at least the definitions of them began with the reflection of 
Greek thinkers upon the institutions of city State.  but in the 
long history of political thought the meaning of such terms 
has been variously modified and always the meaning has to 
be understood in the light of the institutions by which the 
indicates were to be realized and of the society in which 
those institutions did their work.  the Greek city States was 
so different from the political communities in which modern 
men live that it requires no small effort of the imagination to 
picture its social and political life.  the Greek Philosophers 
were thinking of political practices far different from any 
that have prevailed commonly in modern world, and the 
whole climate of opinion in which the work was done was 
different.  their problems though not without their analogies 
in the preset, were never identical with modern problems, and 
the ethical apparatus by which political life was evaluated 
and criticized varied widely from and that now prevails.  
in order to understand at all accurately what their theories 
meant is necessary first to realize at least roughly what 
kind of institutions they had in view and what citizenship 
connected, as an effect and as an ideal to the public for whom 
they wrote.  for this purpose the Government of athens-is 
especially important, partly because it is the best known, but 
chiefly because it was an object of special concern to the 
greatest of Greek Philosophers.
as compared with modern states the ancient city-State 
was exceedingly small both in area and in population.  the 
numbers were exceedingly uncertain but a figure somewhat 
in excess of three hundred thousand would be approximately 
correct.  Such an arrangement of a small territory dominated 
by a single city was typical off the city State.
in each of the following cases, choose the alternative 
which in your opinion supports the views expressed in the 
above passage.  Place a tick (right mark) against the correct 
answer –
51 Athens in significant for the students of Greek political 
thought mainly because –
(a) it was the most powerful of the Greek city States
(b) it’s ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks 
themselves
(c) it had the most ideal form of Government
(d) it is the best known of the Greek city-States
52 Greek political thought was concerned with problems
 (a) entirely unrelated to
 (b) identical withy
 (c) different from analogous but to 
53 the moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is 
(a) very similar to modern moral and religious ideas
(b) unknown
(c) very different from modern moral and religious 
ideas

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
429
54 it is
 (a) easy
 (b) not at all easy
 (c) impossible
55 in comparison with the ancient Greek city States are 
 (a) very large
 (b) very small
 (c) about the same size
56 the population of an ancient Greek city States was
 (a) much less than 300,000
 (b) over 3 million
 (c) just over 300,000
57 the city-State of athens comparisons
 (a) a small territory governed by a singly city
 (b) a large territory governed by a number of cities
 (c) a small territory with village councils
 (d)  a large territory with a de-centralized administration
58 at different times in the history of the world people 
 (a) have thought in basically the same way
 (b) have thought in different ways
 (c) have contradicted the views of people of the  
 previous generation
59 details of political theory are derived from Greek 
Political thought
 (a) because the Greek city States was very similar  
 to modern states
 (b)  in spite of Greek city State being very different  
 from modern States
 (c) because modern political theorists are students  
 of Greek Philosophy
60 the meaning of political ideal at a particular moment 
in European History since the time of the Greeks can 
be defined only be
 (a)  Relating it to its context
 (b) t racing it back to its original meaning among 
the Greeks
 (c) investigating the meaning of the Greek word 
for it
 (d) t aking into account only those features in it 
which have persisted throughout its history.
61 Write sentences using each of the following words so 
as to bring out its meaning clearly:-
 arbitration, emoluments, etiquette, consolidates, 
hypothetical, retrospective, exigencies, evaluate, 
review, empower.
EitHER
62 Write a letter to the Head of an Educational institute in 
an English speaking country, setting out the following 
information in an orderly manner:
 (i)  The equivalence of our examination certificate 
to the certificate specified in this letter cannot be 
determined as the examining authorities in Sri 
Lanka have not been consulted by the institution 
concerned in that country
 (ii)  the G.c.E. (ordinary Level) credit Pass has 
been officially equated with an Ordinary Pass in 
London G.c.E. (ordinary Level)
 (iii)  the receipt of the letter sent to the commissioner 
of Examinations is acknowledged
 (iv)  any further information in this matter may be 
obtained from the Embassy of the Republic of 
Sri Lanka in that country
63 Write a memorandum to the Secretary, bureau of 
Standards making out a case for the adoption of the 24 
hours clock in this country stating the advantages of 
such a measure.
Appendix “B”
1. fiRSt   EfficiENcy  baR  EXaMiNatioN
1.1 The first Efficiency Bar Examination will 
consist of two parts andofficers may take both 
parts at one sitting or separately.
1.2 an examination in the following subjects :
PaRt i
(i) finance – this paper is based on the following:
(a) the financial Regulations of the 
Government of Sri Lanka, Part i
(Expect chapter X)
(b) the estimates of the current year
eg. their arrangement, the heads of 
revenue, the finance and appropriation 
acts.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
430
(c) Ordinance relating to specific accounts 
dealing within Kachcheries.
(ii)   History and Geography of Sri Lanka.
PaRt ii – SPEciaL PaPERS
 (i) Elementary constitutional law and 
international Law
 (ii) diplomatic Practice
 (iii) international affairs
 (iv) the Sri Lanka foreign Service Minute, 
foreign Ministry Regulations and computer 
Literacy.
1.3. Each of the above papers will be of a three hour 
duration and candidates are required to obtain 40% 
marks or above in each paper for a pass.
1.4 An officer will be permitted to sit each paper 
separately on any number of occasions and will be 
deemed to have passed the respective paper when 
he/she has obtained the qualifying marks in respect 
of each paper.
 2. SEcoNd  EfficiENcy  baR  EXaMiNatioN
     2.1 The Second Efficiency Bar Examination will 
consist of two parts and officers may take both 
parts at one sitting or separately.
     2.2 the examination will be conducted in the following 
subjects.
PaRt i
(i) Economic and Social development in Sri 
Lanka 
(ii) administration – this paper is based on the 
following:
(a) Office systems and organizational 
methods
(b) Establishments code – V olume i and 
V olume ii.
PaRt ii – SPEciaL PaPERS
 (i) Elementary constitutional Law and international 
Law
 (ii) diplomatic practice 
 (iii) international affairs
2.3 Each of the above papers will be of a three hour 
duration and candidates are required to obtain 40% 
marks or above in each paper for a pass.
2.4 An officer will be permitted to sit each paper 
separately on any number of occasions and will be 
deemed to have passed the respective paper when 
he/she has obtained the qualifying marks in respect 
of each paper.
 Note:
(i) Questions on constitutional Law 
will be mainly on the evolution of the 
parliamentary System of government 
and the constitutional development of 
Sri Lanka, with special reference to the 
constitution of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka.  Questions on 
international Law will include inter 
– state relations, both bilateral and 
multilateral and the rights and duties of 
States in relation to them, diplomatic 
law and the law of treaties.
(ii) An officer who is an Attorney-at-Law 
or who has obtained a degree in Law 
from a recognized university will be 
exempted from the paper on Elementary 
constitutional Law and international law 
provided he has secured a pass in those 
subjects at the relevant Examination.
3. foREiGN LaNGuaGES
 3.1   foreign Languages
    (i)  arabic 
 (ii)  french 
 (iii) Russian           
 (iv)  Spanish 
 (v) Hindi
 (vi)  chinese
 (vii)  Germany
 (viii) Japanese
 (ix) italian
   (x)   Korean
 3.2  a foresaid each written question papers on 
foreign languages will be of two hour duration.  
candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or 
above in each paper for a pass.
02-854

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
431
completion of five (05) years of the appointment 
in terms of the Public administrative circular 
01/2014.
 (iv) this appointment subject to procedural rules 
of Public Service commission, Establishment 
codes and financial Regulations of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
and other orders of the department.
 
3. Salary Scale.– in terms of the salary circular of Public 
administration circular 03/2016 and the salary code MN 
03-2016 the salary scale is Rs. 31,040- 10 x 445  -11 x 660- 
10 x 730 - 10 x 750 - Rs. 57,550 (Monthly)
4. i. Educational Qualifications :
 1. Should have passed G. c. E. (a/L) Examination 
at one sitting with 03 subjects in Science/
Mathematics scheme including credit passes for 
Physics and chemistry subjects.
and
 2. Should have passed G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
at one sitting with 06 subjects including credit 
passes for Sinhala/t amil/English, Science, 
Mathematics and one of the other subjects.
4. ii. Professional Qualifications :
 1. National diploma in technology offered by 
university of Moratuwa or ampara  HaRdy , 
advanced technological institute.
or
 2. National diploma in Engineering Science 
offered by National apprentice and industrial 
training authority (Naita)
 or
 3. National Higher diploma in Engineering 
offered by the Ministry of Higher Education 
or
 4. diploma in technology offered by open 
university of Sri Lanka (ouSL)
or
 5. Successful completion of Part i of the 
Engineering Examination conducted by 
institution of Engineers Sri Lanka
 or
 6. Completion of National V ocational Qualification 
(NVQ) Level 6 relevant to the field of the job.
or
fOOD COmmISSIONER'S DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment of Supervisory management 
Assistant (Technical Service Category) Inspector 
of Works Grade III of food Commissioner's 
Department 2018
aPPLicatioNS are called from qualified citizens of 
Sri Lanka for the open competitive Examination to for 
the recruitment of one post of Supervisory Management  
assistant (t echnical Service category) inspector of 
Works Grade iii of food commissioner's department. 
the applications duly prepared using both sides of a4 
papers in accordance with the specimen application 
produced at the end of this Gazette Notification should be 
sent to food commissioner's department, No. 330, union 
Place, colombo 02" under registered cover to reach on or 
before the following date. the Words "Open Competitive 
Examination for the Recruitment to the Post of Inspector 
of Works Grade III" should be clearly written at the top left 
corner of the envelope.
 (a)  the closing date for calling applications is 09th of 
March 2018.
Note - complaints against a loss or delay of an application 
or a letter in its relation in post will not be entertained. 
applicants themselves have to bear any loss or 
damage occurred upon delaying the applications till 
the closing date of applications.
1. Method of Recruitment to the Service.– A qualified 
candidate will be selected for the post of inspector of Works 
Grade iii on the basis of order of marks obtains at the written 
examination conducted by the commissioner General of 
department of technical Education and training.
2. Conditions of Recruitment to the Service :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable, should 
contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' and 
orphan's Pensions Scheme.
 (ii) the peroid of probation in three (03) years 
and the First Effieciency bar Should be passed 
within the probationary  period of three (03) 
years.
 (iii) Level   II of proficiency in Second Official 
Language should be obtained, before the 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
432
 7. Other qualifications in technology recognized by Tertiary and Professional Education Commission and equal 
to the above technical qualifications in every respect after obtaining information from the Ministry of Higher 
Education and above institutions that issue certificates of technology.
5. Age Limit.– Not less than 18 years of age and not more than 30 years as at the closing date of calling applications.
6. Physical Requirement.– Every applicant shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island.
7. Other Qualifications :
 (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Shall have a excellent moral character.
 (iii) All the qualifications required for the recruitment to this post shall be completed in all respects as at the 
closing date of calling applications in the Gazette Notification.
8. Written examination :
examination
Paper
Time
Hours
Maximum
Marks
Pass 
Marks
Syllabus
1. test on 
Subject     
related  
technology
3 Hours 100 40% basic concepts on construction of buildings, designing 
plans, maintenance(air conditioning, plumbing, electricity)
reading survey plans and employee management of a work 
site
2. i. Q test 1 Hour 100 40% General Knowledge
8. (i) General Interview : The interview will be held only to check qualifications marks are not given.
9. Conditions of the examination :
 (i) Admission cards for the candidates who have sent duly filled applications will be issued by Director 
General, department of technical Education and training. candidate should present the attested admission 
cart to the supervisor of the examination hall. No candidate of not presenting the admission card would be 
premitted to appear for the examination.
 (ii) No travelling allowance or any other allowance borne by candidates to sit for this examination will be 
reimbursed.
 (iii) candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor, 
for this purpose ;
  (a) the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
or
  (b) a valid Passport is only accepted.
 (iv) the Examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, the tamil and the English Medium and the candidate 
will not be permitted to change the medium for the examination given in his or her application.
 (v) food commissioner will allow all the candidates who have paid prescribed examination and presented duly 
filled applications on or before the closing date of calling applications to sit for the competitive programme 
on the prior assumption that only the persons who possess qualifications in the Gazette notification. Sitting 
for the exam will not be considered that candidate is qualified for the post.
 (vi) candidates subject to the rules and regulations regarding holding this examination enacted by director 
General, department of technical Eduction and training.
 (vii) this Examination would be held only in the Examination centers in colombo by Examinations and 
Evaluation division of the department of technical Education and training.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
433
10. Method of sending Applications :
(i) applications should to be prepared by using 
a4 (24cm x 29 cm) size papers as item number 
01 to 04 should be in the first page and next 
item from the item number 05 should be in the 
other pages and it should be clearly filled in 
candidate's own hand writing.
(ii) Heading in Sinhala Medium applications  
should be in English as well in addition to 
Sinhala, and  in tamil Medium applications in 
English as well in addition to tamil.
(iii) 
applications which are not complying with the 
specimen form and receive after the closing 
date of accepting of applications will not be 
accepted. applicants are advised to post the 
applications earlier to  avoid delays in the mail.
(iv)applications should be in the language in 
which the candidate is eligible to sit the 
examination.
(v) a deposit of Rs.750 be made in favour of 
"food commissioner , bank of ceylon, union 
Place account No. 7042667 as the examination 
fee from any branch of 
bank of ceylon in the 
island. the receipt obtained for this payment  
should be firmly pasted with one edge to the 
place specified in the application form. It is 
advisable if a photocopy of the receipt is kept 
with the candidate. the examination fee is 
not refundable under any circumstances and 
money orders and stamps are not accepted.
(vi) 
candidate's signature in the application should 
be attested by a Principal of a Government  
School/Grama Niladhari of the division, a 
justice of the Peace/commissioner of oaths, 
attorney at-Law, Notary Public, commissioned 
Officer in the Armed Forces, An Officer 
Holding a Gazetted 
Post on the Police Service 
Permanent Staff Officer of Public or provincial 
public service whose annual initial salary is 
Rs. 240,360 or above or chief incumbent of a 
buddhist temple or 
a priest of other religion  
who bears considerable status.
(vii)Employees of Provincial and State Services 
should sent their applications through the Head 
of their department.
(viii) if it any information in the application detected 
as false actions will be taken for dismissal from 
service. 
11. in a case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala,
tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
12. decision of the food commissioner would be the
final decision regarding any matter not herein included. All 
the applicants are bound to abide by the general rules and 
regulations in the Gazette Notification.
J. KriShnamoorthy,
 food commissioner,
 food commissioner's department.
food commissioner's department,
No. 330, union Place,
colombo 02,
23rd february, 2018.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
wdydr flduidßia fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wëlaIK 
l<ukdlrK iyldr ;dlaIK fiajd .Kfha jev mÍlaIl 
;k;=frys iii jk fY%a‚h i|yd n|jd .ekSfï újD;
;rÕ úNd.h 2018
open competitive examination for the recruitment of 
SuperviSory management aSSiStant (technical Service 
category) inSpector of worKS grade iii of food 
commiSSioner'S department 2018)
(For Office Use Only)
 Medium
Sinhala  -2
tamil  -3
English   -4
(Write the number in the relevant cage)
1.0 
1.1 f ull name (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
 (eg.:  HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN      
        KuMaRa HERatH)
 1.2 Last name first with initials at the end (In English 
block capitals) :––––––––.
 (eg. : HERatH H. M. S. K)
 1.3 f ull Name :––––––––.
 (Sinhala/tamil)
 1.4 National identity card No. :

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
434
2.0  2.1 Permanent address :––––––––.
   (in English block letters)
  2.2 Permanent address :––––––––.
   (Sinhala/t amil)
  2.3 address to sent the admission card :––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)
 
3.0  3.1 telephone Number :––––––––.
4.0  4.1 Gender : Male  - 0
      female  - 1
   (Write the number in the relevant cage)
5.0  5.1 date of birth: 
   y ear Month date
  5.2 age as at the closing date of application :
   y ears Months days
6.0 Educational/Qualifications
  6.1 details of G. c. E. o/L Examination :
 (i) y ear and month of Examination :––––––––––
.
 (ii) index No. :––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
  6.2 Particulars of G. c. E. a/L Examination :
 (i) y ear and month of Examination :––––––––––
.
 (ii) index No. :––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 3
2 4
  6.3 if possess a degree from recognized university :
  (i) university :––––––––––.
  (ii) degree :––––––––––.
  (iii) admission No. :––––––––––.
7.0 Professional Qualifications :
  (i) ................................
  (ii) ................................
8.0 Experience :––––––––––.
9.0 Have you been convicted by a court of Law for any 
offence ?
 * (tick (P) the relevant cage)
  y es  No
 (if yes explain) :––––––––––––––.
10.0 Particulars of the receipt for payment of examination 
fees :
  (i) branch of bank of ceylon where examination fee 
was paid :––––––––––.
  (ii) Paid amount Rs. :––––––––––.
Paste the receipt properly here.
(Keep a photocopy for future reference)
11.0 Certificate of the candidate :
  (a) i do hereby honourary declare that the particulars 
furnished above are true to the best of my 
Knowledge. i agree to bear any loss that may 
occur because of not completing a part of this and 
completing inaccurately. further i declare that i 
have completed all the parts accurately.
  (b) i know that the statement in the application 
which is found to be false will make me liable 
disqualification if the it is detected before the 
selection and for dismissal if detected after the 
selection.
 
  (c)  further, i declare that i am bound the rules and 
regulations enacted by director General of the 
department of technical Education and training.
 
  (d) i shall not change any particulars stated in this 
subsequently.
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'02'23
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.02.2018
435
12.0 attestation of the applicant's Signature :
i, certify that i personally know Mr./Mrs./Miss .................. 
Presenting this application he/she has paid the prescribed 
examination fee, has affixed the receipt in the application and 
he/she put his/her signature before me on ....................
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester.
date  :––––––––––.
full name of the attester  :––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––.
(Certify with the official Frank)
13.0 if the candidate is in public service certificate of the 
Head of department.
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss............................................
. who has applied for this post is at present employed in 
this Ministry/department/Provincial council/institute on 
permanent/casual/temporary basis he/she can be/cannot be 
released from the present post.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department or the
 Authorized Officer.
date  :––––––––––.
full Name of the department Head  :––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––.
(Certify with the official frank)
02-736
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.