

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.02.2007
81
81
¡â¤ 1 ,484 _ 2007  ïÀ´˙ÉåÖ 09 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .02.09
No. 1,484 – FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY 09, 2007
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... –
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 83
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th February, 2007 should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 02nd February, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N. B.:–Quarterly statement of books for January–March 2001 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.02.2007
82
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.02.2007
83
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Department of Agriculture
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF BUILDING
OVERSEER/INSPECTOR OF WORKS OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN  THE DEPARTMENT OF
AGRICULTURE - 2007
APPLICATIONS are invited for the purpose of filling  vacancies in
the post of Building Overseer/Inspector of Works of the Department
of Agriculture, through a competitive examination which will be
conducted by the Department of Examinations.
02. The closing  date of applications is 09.03.2007 and the age of
applicants should not be less than 18 years or more than 45 years as
at the closing date of applications. The maximum age limit will not be
applicable to those who are already in the Public Service or Provincial
Public Service.
03. The candidates should have fulfilled the following Basic
Educational Qualifications and Professional Qaulifications :
3.1 National Diploma in Engineering offered by the National
Apprentice and Technical Tranning Authority ;
or
Higher National Diploma in Engineering offered by the
Ministry of Education and Higher Education ;
or
A Diploma in Technology offered by the Open University
of Sri Lanka ;
or
Diploma in Building Designing offered by the University
of Moratuwa or Hardi Technical Institute, Ampara ; and
A pass in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 (six) subjects
with credit pass in Language  or Literature, Arithmetic/
Mathematics, Science and any other subject at not more
than two sittings, or at an equivalent examination.
Note.– Those who have obtained Diploma from the Open
University of Sri Lanka and have passed the Foundation Course of
the same Diploma from the same University could be  exempted
from the requirement  of pass in the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
N. B.– By the closing date of applications, the candidates should
have fulfilled all the qualifications stipulated in this Gazette
Notification.
04. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared in compliance with the
specimen form appended  to this notification, only on a
(21 cm x 29 cm) “A4” size paper, using both sides of the
paper. (it is compulsory to contain cages 01 to 04 of the
Application form on the first page of the paper)
(b) Applications should be prepared in the language in which
the candidate intends to sit for the examination.
(c) Duly completed application should be sent by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examiantion, P . O. Box, 1503, Palawatte,
Battaramulla on or before 09.03.2007.
(d) The top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application should be clearly indicated “Open Competitive
Examination for Recruitment to the posts of Building
Overseer/Inspector Work of the Department of Agriculture
2007”.
(e) The original receipt   obtained from any post office on the
payment of Rs. 250 being the exmination fee should be
affixed on the space provided in the application so as to be
dettachable. Keep a Photostat copy of the receipt with
you.
(f) Examination fee will not be refuned any circumstacer unless
otherwise the examination will be cancelled. Further the
fee paid to the examination can't be transferred to any
other examination.
(g) Applications which are not complete in every  respect or
received  after the  closing date of applicants will be rejected
without notice, and no complaint that an application has
been lost or delayed  in the post will be considered.
(h) Sitting this examination will not only be an eligibility for
recruitment to the relevant post.
(i) The signature of the candidate should be attested by a
Principal of Government Shcool or Justice of Peace or an
Attorney-at-Law or an Officer of Public Service who holds
a staff grade post.
(j) Those who are already in the Public Service should forward
their applications through heads of the respective
institutions.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.02.2007
84
05. Admission to the Examination :
(a) Admission Card :
The Commissioner General of Examination will issue
admission cards to candidates whose applications have
been received. A candidate must produce his/her admission
card to the supervisor of the examinations hall assigned to
him/her. A candidate who fails to produce his/her admission
card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) Any candidate who has not received his/her admission
card at least 7 days before the day of examination should
immediately inform the Commissioner General of
Examination,   P. O. Box 1503, Palawatte, Battaramulla,
furnishing the following information :
(i) Name of the Examination :
(ii)Full Name of the Candidate :
(iii)Address :
(iv) Date of Posting the Application, Registered Number
and the Post Office :
(v) Money Order Number, Date and the Post Office :
(c) Traveling expenses or any other allowance will not be paid
to candidates in respect of sit for this examination.
(d) Identification of the Candidate :
A candidate will be required to prove his/her identify at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor
of each subject he offers. For this purpose following
documents will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
06. Syllabus :
(i)Intelligence Test.– (Time - 01 hour - Total Marks - 100)
This paper consists of objective questions so as to make
an assessment of the candidate's, power of logical reasoning,
and analysis and ability to draw sound inferences.
(ii)Technological Question Paper.– (Time - 02 hours - Total
Marks - 100)
Part I.–Objective question paper - Time 1 hour.
Part II.–Structured essay type question paper - Time
1 hour
(a) Surveying and leveling.– chain survey, leveling,
knowledge in use of Theodolite and plane tabling.
(b) Building materials.– knowledge in use of cement,
lime, sand, stone, paints, plastics and glass as
building materials and identification of quality wood.
(c) Building construction and Estimation.– method and
necessity of constructing foundations and walls and
timber roofs, iron truss pillars, concrete beams and
concrete pillars, foundations slabs, stair cases
retaining walls etc. and taking measurements,
preparation of estimates and estimation of building
material and labour requirments.
(d) Structural Bending/shear force diagram.
(e) Services.– electricity, water, sanitary
(The paper is designed to examine the candidate's knowledge in
above fields)
Note.– Recruitement will be considered on the priority list which
will be prepared in order of the aggregate marks of the candidates,
selected from candidates who have secured 40% or more marks in
each question paper.
07. Medium of Exmaination.– The examination will be held in the
languages of Sinhala, Tamil and English. A candidate must sit all the
papers of the examination in one and the same language.
08. Place of Examination.–The examination will be held in
Colombo in May, 2007.
09. Conditions of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and the
contributions to Widowers’/Widowers’ and Orphans
Pension Scheme should be made.
(ii) In terms of Public Administration Circular 06/2006,
implemented with effect from 01.01.2006, the monthly
salary scale is Rs. 14,140-140 x 10 - 150 x 11 - 210 x 6 -
290 x 14 - 22,520 (Accordingly 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination should be completed before reaching 3rd salary
step of this salary scale.)
10. The matters not stipulated in this notification will be decided
by the “Appointing Authority”. All candidates are bound to act in
conformity with the General Rules of Examinations stipulated in the
Gazette Notification.
The Commissioner General of Examination will allow to sit for
this competitive examination to all applicants who have paid required
examination fee and sent applications on or before the date specified
in the notification on predetermination that the applications have
only been sent by those who have fulfilled the requirements of this
Gazette Notification. Admission to the competitive examination does
not necessarily constitute acceptance of eligibility for the post. If it
is found that a candidate has not  fulfilled required qualifications as at
the day of closing application, at the time of examine his/her
qualifications in the interview, his/her candidature will be cancelled.
(Note.– in the event of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail)
Dr.C. K
UDAGAMAGE ,
Director General of Agriculture.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.02.2007
85
SPECIMEN  APPLICA TIONS  FORM
(For Office use only)
A PPLICA TION  FOR  OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINA TION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO
THE  POST  OF  BUILDING  OVERSEER /INSPECTOR  OF  WORKS  OF  THE
SRI LANKA  TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE  IN THE  DEPARTMENT  OF
A GRICULTURE  - 2007
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English- 4
(Indicate the relevant
Number in the Cage)
The post applied for :
01. Name :———.
1.1 Name with initials :———.
(In English capital letters) Eg. SILV A A. B.
1.2 Full Name :———.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card Number :
02. Permanent Address :———.
(In English capital letters)
2.1 Address to which the admission should be sent :———.
(In English capital letters)
03. Gender : Female 1 Male 1
Indicate the relevant
Number in the Cage)
3.1 Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date
3.2 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years Months Days
04. Marital Status :
Married - 1 Unmarried - 2
Indicate the relevant
Number in the Cage)
05. Educational Qualifications :
(a) S. S. C./G. C. E. (O/L)/N. G. E. C.
First Sitting Second Sitting
Name of the Examination : ——— ———
Year and Month : ——— ———
Index Number : ——— ———
Medium : ——— ———
First Sitting Second Sitting
Subjects Grades Subjects Grades
1. ———— ——— ———— ———
2. ———— ——— ———— ———
3. ———— ——— ———— ———
4. ———— ——— ———— ———
5. ———— ——— ———— ———
6. ———— ——— ———— ———
7. ———— ——— ———— ———
8. ———— ——— ———— ———
9. ———— ——— ———— ———
06. Professional Qualifications :
Name of the Year Index Subjects Pass
Diploma & passed No. passed
Name of the
Institution
07. The post office to which the examination fee was paid :
Date:———. No. of the receipt :———.
Please affix the receipt of money order
so as to be dettachable
08. Declaration of the Applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application true and accurate. I am also aware that, if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect
I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed
without any compensation  if such detection is made after
appointment.
I agree to abide by the conditions of this examination.
———,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .02.09
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.02.2007
86
09. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I hereby certify that the Mr/Mrs/Miss ...............................
is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her  signature
before me on ...............................
———,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :———.
Full Name of Attestor :———.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
(Please prove by the official seal)
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
10. Director General of Exmination,
I hereby certify that the above candidate has qualified/not
qualified to sit for this examination.
———,
Signature and Designatin of Head
of the Department/Institution
Date :———.
02-341