

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1647
1647
wxl 1"623 - 2009 Tlaf;dan¾ 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'10'09
No. 1,623 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 09, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1650
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1651
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th October, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd
October, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.— Part II of the Gazette No. 1,622 of  02.10.2009 was not published.
The list of Medical Practitioners of Homeopathy in 2008 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1648
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1649
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1650
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
RATNAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births, Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule here to.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 09th November, 200 9.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
15th Septembner, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's applications are called applications should be
Division Sent
Ratnapura Imbulpe Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/
(Kandyan/General) of Kadawatha and Meda Addi. Registrar General
Koralaya Division and Births and District Secretariat
Deaths of Morahela Division. Ratnapura.
Ratnapura Imbulpe Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/
(Kandyan/General) of Kadawatha Addi. Registrar General
and Meda Koralaya Division and Births and District Secretariat
Deaths of Imbulpe Division. Ratapura.
10-254

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1651
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE IIB OF THE CLASS II OF THE
SRI LANKA LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS'
SERVICE – 2009
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Director General of the Animal
Production and Health for the Competitive Examination to recruit
for the posts of Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Livestock
Development Officers service in the Department of Animal
Production and Health.
02. Examination.– The examination will be held on November,
2009 in Kandy by the Director General of Animal Production and
Health. The right to postpone or cancel the examination shall be with
the Director General.
03. Condition of the Service.– The recruitment to be class IIB of
Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers Service will be subject to
the general conditions governing the appointments in the Public
Service and the following conditions.
(i) The selected officer is subject to serve in any part of the
Island ;
(ii) The officer appointed under open competitive examination
will be on probation for a period of 3 years. If an officer
who is confirmed in a post in the Public Service is
appointed. He will be on probation for a period of one
year. The officers who are appointed by the open
competitive examination are required to pass the
Efficiency Bar Examination I before they are confirmed in
the posts.
(iii) An officer who entered the public service in the English
medium under the open recruitment should gain
proficiency in official language either in Sinhala or Tamil
during the period of probation. A certified copy of the
result sheet or the original issued by the Department of
Examination to be submitted to prove that Sinhala/Tamil
subject has been passed at the G . C. E. (O/L) examination
in order to exempt from the official language proficiency
test.
(iv) The selected officer will be subject to the orders of the
Public Service Commission rules and regulations of the
Establishment Code. Financial Regulations terms and
conditions issued by the government from time to time
and the orders of the Ministry and the Department.
04. Salary Scale.– MT-2-2006A- Rs. 14,570 - 10 x 170 - 11 x 180
- 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 - Rs. 24,170. (As per P . A. Circular No. 06/
2006(iv) monthly). The salary step of Rs. 14,570 - 10 x 170 -
Rs. 16,270 is applied to this post.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
05. Age Limit :
(i) Should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35
years at the closing date of the application. The appear
age limit will not apply for the officers who are already in
the government service ;
(ii) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) Should be physically fit.
06. Educational Qualification.– Should complete the following
qualifications as at 12.10.2009.
Applicant should have passed G . C. E. (Ad.Level) examination in
three subjects and two subjects from Maths, Applied Maths,
Physics, Chemistry, Combine Maths, Biology and Agriculture ; and
Two year Diploma obtained from the School of Animal Husbandry
in Welisara, Anuradapura or Kundasale.
07. Method of Recruitment.– The candidates who have fulfilled
the basic qualifications should sit for a Common Competition
examination which will be conducted by the Department of Animal
Production and Health Service.
(i) Candidates who have obtained 50% or more marks for
each paper at the competitive examination will be called
for a viva voce. on the basis of merit, No marks will be
given for the interview. Recruitment will be made on the
basis of the total marks obtained at the examination by
the candidates who have provided their eligibility.
08. Examination :
(i) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala/Tamil and
English Medium.
(ii) Candidates may answer in any language.
(iii) Permission will not be given to change the Language
Medium at the Examination.
(iv) The examination fee will be Rs. 300. A money order drawn
in favour of the Director General Animal Production and
Health encashable at the post office Peradeniya and
Money order should be affixed on the relevant cage in the
application.
(v) The examination will be consisted of two subjects.
(i) Intelligence ;
(ii) Question paper in Technology ;
(vi) Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence - time 01 hour (100 marks)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1652
This question paper is designed to examine the applicants logical
reasoning, analytical thinking and the ability to take decisions.
(b) Question paper in Technology - time 01 hour (100 marks)
It is consisted with the following subjects :
(i) The resources available for agricultural and animal
husbandry activities of Sri Lanka. Potentials, Personal
situation and contribution towards the economy.
(ii) Animal husbandry patterns of Sri Lanak quantity of
production and marketing systems, Livestock farming
patterns available in Sri Lanka their location and the
dissemination.
(iii) Popular methods used for breeding purpose with regard
to farm herd.
(iv) Epidemics, disease control activities, collection of samples
from sick animals and transporting of them.
(v) Combined farming systems and recycling methods.
(vi) Industries associated with animal husbandry processing
of milk and meat and processing of animal feed.
(vii) Income and the expenditure accounting systems pertaining
to animal production process reporting and auditing to
farms planning of farms.
(viii) Using of scientific information dissemination system and
their productivity.
09. Method of Application :
(i) Application form should be prepared in accordance to
the specimen application attached herewith. Application
prepared on A-4 size paper (8" x 12" (A4)) using both
sides of it should be forwarded under registered cover to
reach the Director General, Department of Animal
Production and Health, P. O. Box 13, Gatabe, Peradeniya
on or before 23.10.2009.
The Words Competitive examination for recruitment to
the post of Livestock Development officer should be
written clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Application received after the closing date will be rejected.
Note :
(i) The applicants who are in the Public Service should
forward their application through their Head of the
Department/Institutions.
(ii) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No allegation
with regard to the application lost or delayed in the post
will be accepted.
(iii) No acknowledged will be sent if the candidates have not
received their admission cards four days prior to the date
of the examination it should be informed to the Director
General of Animal Production and Health immediately
with following particulars :
(i) Full name ;
(ii) Address ;
(iii) Date on which the application was posted,
registered No. and post office.
Photostat copies of the following should be attached to the
application form of the candidate :
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Certificates with regard to the educational qualifications.
10. Identity of the Candidate.– Every candidate should prove his
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor.
The following documents are accepted for that purpose :
(i) National identity card issued by the Commissioner
General of Registration of persons ;
(ii) Valid Passport.
Submission of False Information.– If it reveals that a candidate
has not possessed the required qualifications to sit for the examination
his or her candidature can be cancelled before or during the examination
after it or at any stage. If it reveals that a candidate has submitted
false information knowingly he/she will be subject for dismissed.
The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the
general conditions of the service relevant for the appointment to the
Public Service Stated in paragraph 2:1 of Part I of this gazette
notification together with the rules and instructions for the candidates.
The Director General, Animal Production and Health reserves
himself the right to take a decision with regard to a problem arisen or
about no of candidates to be recruited the final decision. The
particulars of the service are published in the service minute of the
Sri Lanka Livestock Development officers in the extra ordinary
gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 140323
dated 14.09.2005 the number to be recruited and that will be the final
decision.
H. S. P. H
ERATH,
Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya,
10th September, 2009.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1653
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
APPLICATION FOR THE POSTS OF LIVESTOCK
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER OF CLASS IIB OF THE SRI LANKA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICER SERVICE
(For office use only)
The Medium applied for :
Make the relevant number in the cage
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials in block capitals (Surname first) :––––.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––.
1.3 N.I.C. No. :
02. Address :
2.1 Private Address :–––––––––.
2.2 Official Address :–––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :–––.
03. 3.1 Sex : ( 3 mark the relevant cage) :
Female
Male
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Civil Status : ( 3Mark the relevant cage) :
Married
Single
04. Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.2 ( a) The Institute from where the Diploma in Animal
Husbandry was obtained :–––––––––.
(b) The year on which the Diploma in Animal Husbandry
was obtained :–––––––––.
05. The present occupation and the previous post held (if available
only) :
Post Institute From To
06. The name of the post office to which the examination fee had
been paid :–––––––––.
Money order No. :–––––––––.
The examination fee Rs. 300. It should be written in favour of
Director General, Animal Production and Health.
The receipt should be affixed here.
I certify that the particulars given in this application are true and
correct. I am also aware that if any particulars contained here in are
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before
selection or to be dismissed without any compensation if such
detection is made after selection.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Relevant only for the officers in the Public Service at present.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I do hereby certify that the foregoing particulars were checked by
me and found to be correct, He/She could/could not be released from
the present post held by him/her if selected for the above post.
–––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
(Official seal should be placed)
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
10–379
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF RESEARCH
ASSISTANT IN CLASS IIB OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2009
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Director General of the Animal
Production and Health for the Sri Lanka Technological Service

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1654
Competitive Examination to recruit for the posts of Research
Assistant Class IIB in the Department of Animal Production and
Health.
02. Examination.– The examination will be held on November,
2009 in Kandy by the Director General of Animal Production and
Health. The right to postpone or cancel the examination shall be with
the Director General.
03. Condition of the Service.– Recruitment will be made for class
IIB of the Research Assistant Service subject to the general conditions
of the Public Service and the following conditions governing the
appointments of the Public Service.
(i) The selected officer is subject to the conditions of serving
any part of the Island ;
(ii) The officer who are recruited under the open competitive
examination will be on probation for a period of 3 years.
If a Public Officer already confirmed in a permanent post
in the Public Service is appointed. He will be kept under
the supervision for a period of one year. The officers who
are appointed by the open competitive examination before
confirmed in the post.
(iii) The officers who have recruited for the public service
should obtain the proficiency in an official language in
addition to the official language medium of examination.
(iv) The selected officer is subject to the orders of the Public
Service Commission provisions of the Establishment
Code, Financial Regulations Provisions and Regulations
Provision and Regulations issued by the Government from
time and orders of the Ministry and Department.
04. Salary Scale.– MN-3-2006A- Research Assistants Service
Class IIB Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 -
Rs. 27,885 (Monthly as per Public Administration Circular 07/2008)
The salary scale for this grade is Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 -
Rs. 17,165. The officers in this segment should pass the 1st Efficiency
Bar Examination before the 3rd increment.
05. Age Limit :
(a) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years on the closing date of the application. This maximum
age limit does not apply for the officers who are already
in the public services ;
(b) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(c) Should be physically fit.
06. Educational Qualification :
Should have obtained the Diploma in Animal Husbandry
from Sri Lanka college of Animal Husbandry ; and
G .C.E./(A/L) in three subjects with two subjects and two
of them should be from Chemistry, Agriculture and
Biology ; and
Should have passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination
in not more than two sitting in 06 subjects with credit
passes in Language or Literature/Arithmetic/
Mathematics ; or
Pass in any other examination similar to it.
Note.– If the person who have obtained a Diploma from the open
university of Sri Lanka have passed the foundation course
relevant to that course they can be released from
requirement of completing G . C. E. (Ordinary Level).
07. Method of Recruitment.– The candidates who have fulfilled
the basic qualifications should sit for the Competitive examination
which will be conducted by the Department of Animal Production
and Health.
The candidates who have obtained 40% or more makes for each
paper prescribed for the general competitive examination will be
called for a viva voce on merit basis. No marks will be given for the
interview and recruitment will be made on the basis of the order of
the aggregate obtained at the examination by the candidates who
have fulfilled the necessary qualifications.
08. Examination :
(i) Medium of examination will be Sinhala/Tamil/English ;
(ii) Candidate can select the medium of the examination ;
(iii) Permission will not be given to change the medium applied
for the Examination ;
(iv) The examination fee is Rs. 300. The money order drawn
in favour of the Director General, Department of Animal
Production and Health encashable at the post office,
Peradeniya should be affixed to the relevant cage in the
application.
(v) Subjects.– The examination will be consisted of two
question papers.
(i) Intelligence Test ;
(ii) Question paper in Technology.
Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence Test.– time 01 hour - 100 marks.
This question paper is designed to examine the logical
reasoning analytical thinking and the ability to take
decision.
(b) Question paper in Technology.– time 01 hour - 100 marks
This includes the subjects given below :
(i) Identification and maintenance of laboratory equipment.
(ii) The test used for diagnosis :
Pathology
Parasitology
Microbiology
Serology
Nutrition

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1655
(iii) The test used for Animal Husbandry :
Physical tests
Chemical tests
Sensitive tests
(iv) Cleanliness of the Laboratory, sterilization
(v) Obtaining samples storing and transport.
09. Method of Application.– The application should be prepared
in accordance to the specimen application form attached to this
notification. Application should be prepared on paper 8 1/2 x 12
(A4) using both sides of it.
The Application should be sent under registered cover to reach
the "Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health,
P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya" on or before 23rd October,
2009. The words' competitive Examination for the Recruitment to
the envelop. The application received after the closing date will be
rejected.
Note.– The candidates who are in the Public Service should forward
their application through the Head of the Department/
Institute.
Incomplete applications will be rejected. No allegation
that an application has been delayed or lost in the post
will be considered.
Application will not be acknowledged. If admission are
not received within four days prior to the date of the
examination, the candidates are requested to inform the
Director General, Department of Animal Production
Health immediately with the following particulars :
(i) Full name of the appilcant ;
(ii) Address ;
(iii) Date of posting, registered No. and post office.
10. The Photostat copies of the following should be attached to
the application :
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Educational Certificates.
Identity of the Candidate.– Every candidate is required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor. The following documents are accepted for that purpose.
(i) National identity card issued by the Commissioner
General of Registration of persons ;
(ii) A valid passport (Issued 3 years prior to the date of the
examination).
Submission of false information :
(i) If it reveals that a candidate has not gained the required
qualification to sit for the examination his/her candidature
can be cancelled before or during the examination or after
the examination or at any stage. If it appears that a
candidate has submitted false information knowingly
he/she will be dismissed from service.
(ii) The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to
the general conditions pertaining to the appointment to
the Public Service stipulated at the commencement of
Part I(IIA) of this gazette notification and rules and
regulations for the candidates.
11. The Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health reserves herself the right to take a decision with regard to a
problem arisen about the number to be recruited and that will be the
final decision.
Dr. (Mrs.) H. S. P. H
ERATH,
Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya,
15th September, 2009.
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
APPLICATION FOR THE POSTS OF RESEARCH
ASSISTANT IN CLASS II OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2009
(For office use only)
Medium Selected
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials (in block letters) (Example, SILV A, B. A.)
:–––––––––.
1.2 N.I.C. No. :
02. Address :
2.1 Private Address :–––––––––.
2.2 Official Address :–––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :–––.
03. 3.1 Sex : ( 3 mark the relevant cage) :
Female
Male
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years : Months : Dates :

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1656
3.4 Civil Status : (Mark the relevant cage) :
Married
Single
04. Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.2 G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.3 ( a) The Institute from where the Diploma was obtained :
–––––––––.
(b) The year which the Diploma  was obtained :–––––––.
05. The present occupation and the previous appointments held :
Post Institute From To
06. The name of the post office to which the examination fees had
been paid :–––––––––.
No. of the Money order :–––––––––.
The examination fee Rs. 300. It can be paid to any post
office in the island in favour of the Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health.
Affix the receipt here.
07. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any of the
information furnished me is found to be false or incorrect, I am
liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed without
any compensation if such detection is made after appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Relevant only for the officers who are holding permanent posts in
the Public Service at present.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
The above particulars furnished by the officer were checked and
found to be correct and if he/she is selected for the above post he/she
can be/cannot be released.
–––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
10–380
MINISTRY  OF  PLAN  IMPLEMENTATION
Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Development
Officers and Project Officers recruited under the
Ministry of Plan Implementation - 2009
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination which
should be passed before reaching the Twelfth salary step for
Development offices and Seventh Salary step for Project Officers,
who were recruited under the Ministry of Plan Implementation
will be held in Colombo in January, 2010 by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and the closing date for applications is on
9th November, 2009.
02. Scheme of Examination.- This Efficiency Bar Examination
will consist of the following subjects.
(i) Subject No. 1 - Economic Development/Planning (3 h)
Marks - 100
(ii) Subject No. 2 - Social Science/Regional Development
(2 h) Marks - 100
Note :
(a) An Officer may sit all subjects in one attempt or in several
attempts ;
(b) A candidate should obtain 40% or more for each paper to
pass the examination ;
(c) The exam will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium. The medium you are applying for, cannot be
changed afterwards ;
(d) All candidates are required to follow rules and regulations
that are imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examination regarding this Examination. If any rule or
regulation  is broken, he/she has to face any penalty
imposed by him.
03. Subjects :
(a) Subject No. 1 - Economic Development/Planning (3 h) -
Marks 100

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1657
(i) Economical Situation, Policies and Problems of Sri
Lanka ;
(ii) Project Planning, Implementation and Evaluation ;
(iii) General Knowledge of Collecting, filing and analyzing
data.
(b) Subject No. 2 - Social Science/Regional Development (2 h)
- Marks 100
(i) Rural Social Science ;
(ii) Rural Community of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) Urbanization of Sri Lanka ;
(iv) Regional Development.
04. Qualifications .– All Development Officers and Project
Officers recruited under the Ministry of Plan Implementation  are
eligible to sit for the examination.
05. Method of Application :–
(a) An application form should be prepared on a A4 size
paper using both sides according to the specimen form
appended at the end of this notification. Column 01 to 07
should be in the first page and 8 upwards should be in the
second page. The form should be filled in by the candidate's
own handwriting. The applications which are not prepared
according to the specimen application form and, the
applications which are not  duly completed will be rejected
without any notification. The applications should be
forwarded according to the specimen application form
and otherwise they will rejected. (Keeping a photocopy
of the application from may be useful.
(b) Applications should be sent through the Heads of
Departments by registered post to reach the Commissioner
General of Examinations. Department of Examination of
Sri Lanka, Organization and Foreign Examination Division,
Pelawaththa, Battaramulla on or before 9th November,
2009. The name of the examination should be mentioned
clearly on the top left-hand corner of the envelope.
(c) Applications should be prepared in the language in which
the candidates sit for  the examination. when preparing
the application, the heading of the application and the
name of the examination should be in English for Sinhalese
and Tamil application.
(d) Applications which are not in the above relevant format
and do not contain all information and delay to reach will
be rejected without any notification. No allegation that an
application has been lost or delayed in the post will be
considered .
06. The Department of Examinations will published a newspaper
notice as soon as admission cards are issued. If a candidate doesn't
receive his/her Admission Card at least two to three days after the
newspaper notice, he/she should communicate with the Department
of Examinations as stated in the newspaper notice. Your request
letter along with the certified copies of the application, the receipt
of payment which you kept with you, the receipt or registered
post and if you are living outside Colombo, a fax number to send
the Admission  should be sent to the Department of Examination.
(Keeping copies of all documents will be productive). This
examination is conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examination and all candidates are required to follow rules and
regulations that are imposed by him. The issuing of an admission to
a candidate should not be considered as a qualification of him/her to
sit for the Examination. Also on the date of the Examination, the
candidate should forward the Admission Card to the Examination
Supervisor after certifying his/her signature.
07. Identity.– Candidature will be required to prove their identity
(in respect of each subject) in the examination hall to the satisfaction
of the Examination Supervisor. For this purpose any of the following
documents will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations has the power to
cancel or reject the candidature of any applicant who is unable to
provide any one of the above mentioned documents :
08. Examination Fees.- Fees will be levied from the candidates
who sit for this examination on the following basis
(a) For the first sitting - Free of charges ;
(b) For the whole examination after the first sitting -
Rs. 200 ;
(c) For a single subject - Rs. 100.
A cash receipt obtained from any Divisional Secretariat
in the island drawn in favour to the Revenue Head 2003-
20-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations should
be affixed to the application. (Keeping a photocopy of
the receipt for the payment will be useful.)
09. Heads of the Departments/Officers are requested to grant
duty leave to an officer of their Departments/Officers who have
been issued an Admission Cards by the Commissioner General of
Examinations to present themselves at the examinations.
10. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with direction of this Ministry.
D
HARA WIJAYA TILAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Plan Implementation.
Ministry of Plan Implementation,
Colombo 01.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1658
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(for office use only)
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS
AND PROJECT OFFICERS RECRUITED UNDER THE MINISTRY OF PLAN
IMPLEMENTATION - 2009
(Note : This form should be filled correctly and legibly in candidate's
own handwriting)
Language Medium in which you sit for the Examination
Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(put the appropriate number in the relevant cage)
01. (i) Surname with initials (in English capital letters) :———.
(Ex : SILVA B. A.)
(ii) Surname with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
(iii) Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil)  :————.
(iv) Names denoted by initials (In English capital letters) :—.
02. (i) Official address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
(ii) Official address (In English capital letters) :————.
(Admission cards will be posted to this address)
03. Date of Birth  :
Y ear Month Date
04. Date of assuming duties as Development officers or project
officers :
(The correct date on which duties were assumed should be
stated)
Y ear Month Date
05. Subjects applied for under Para. 2 of the Gazette Notification.
Subject Subject No.
...............................
................................
06. Are you sitting for the examination for the first time ? :–——.
07. If not the first sitting, examination fees paid :————.
A cash receipt obtained from any Divisional Secretariat in
the Island drawn in favour to the Revenue Head 2003-20-13
of Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed
to the application. (Keeping  a photocopy of the receipt for
the payment will be useful)
08. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this application
are correct and that I agreed to follow the rules and regulations
on conducting this examination, imposed by the Commissioner
General of the Examination. I am entitled to sit for the
examination in the language medium indicated above.
 ————,
Candidate's Signature.
Date  :————.
Note.- The candidate should sing in the presence of Head of his/her
Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of
such Head of Department of his local head.
09. Attestation :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................ who is an officer in my
office and who is known to me personally placed his/her signature
in my presence this ........... day of ............... 20.....
 ————,
Signature of Attester.
(Official Seal should be placed)
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
10. Certificate of Head of the Department :
I certify,
(i) that the particulars furnished above have been checked
and found to be correct.
(ii) that the candidate is eligible to sit for this examination.
 ————,
Signature of the Head of the Department
(Official Seal should be placed)
Name  :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
10-268
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
Recruitment of students for Midwife Training - 2009
APPLICATIONS are invited from unmarried female Sri Lankan citizen for who are qualified to be recruited as students for recruit ment
of trainees for the above training course in accordance with the Cabinet Decision taken on 12.08.2009.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1659
1. Recruitments will be made depending on vacancies available at district level.
2. Selection of students for training course will be based on the ration of district population depending on the number of
students to be recruited for training.
3. The Students who follow other training courses should not apply as this has been a full-time training course.
4. Educational Qualifications.
(a)  Educational Qualifications required are as follows :
Code T raining Course G . C. E.(A/L) G . C. E. (O/L) Other
No. Qualification Qualification Qulifications
01 To fill vacancies in other G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in three G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six Eligible persons will be
provinces of the country subjects at one sitting in any stream subjects at not more than two selected based on a merit
and in the Municipal of subject. (Preference will be sittings including English list prepared on the Z-
Council Colombo other given for those who have passed Language with Credit Passes for score value of the
than North and East the examination in Science Stream Sinhala/Tamil Language, G .C.E. (A/L) Examination
Provinces of subjects) Mathematics, Science and from 2002 to 2007
another subject
02 To be employed only in Qualification under G.C.E. (A/L) G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six
the Eastern Province will not be considered subjects at not more than two
sittings including English
Language with Credit passes
for Sinhala/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science and
another subject
03 To be employed in Estate Qualification under G.C.E. (A/L) G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six Should be able to speak
hospitals will not be considred subjects at not more than two T amil
sittings including English
Language with Credit passes
for Sinhala/Tamil Language,
Mathematics, Science and
another subject
5. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age as at 16.11.2009.
(b) Should be physically fit and healthy.
(c) Height should be over 04 feet 10 inches (148cm)
(d) Should be unmarried and remain unmarried during the period of training studies employed on temporary basis after
theoretical training also should remain unmarried until they are attached to the formal training & giving appointments.
(e) (i) Application under Code No. (i) of the para 04 (a)
The applicants for other provinces of the country other than those who apply for North and East Provinces should
confirm residency for 03 years within the district from which they apply.
(ii) Application under Code No. 02 of the Para 04(a).
The applicants for the Eastern Province are bounde to serve within the Eastern Province during the total period of their
service and they should confirm residency for 03 years within the district from which they apply.
(iii) Application under Code No. 03 of the Para04(a)
The applicants should able to speak Tamil and confirm residency for 03 years within the district from which they
apply. They are required to enter into an agreement with the Director General of Health Services that they serve
continuously in the estate sector during the total period of their service.
Districts in which vacancies exist for Estate Midwives

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1660
Nuwara Eliya/Kandy/Matale/Moneragala/Ratnapura/Kegalle/ Colombo/Galle/Matara/Kurunegala
6. Method of Application :
(a) There are separate specimen form of applications for Code No. 01, 02 and 03 under para 04 (a) above and the
applicants should select and forward the correct form of application according to the field they apply for and if they
apply for all the three field they should forward separate applications.
N. B.– The applicants under Code No. 01 of the 04 (a) above should clearly indicate in the relevant columns whether
they apply for other provicnes except for North and East of the country or for the Colombo Municipal Council.
(b) Applications should be prepared as per form of application attached to this notice. Applicant should affix stamps to
the value of Rs. 500 on the "Stamps Cage" in the application and cancel them by placing her signatures.
(c) The signature of the applicant should be atested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountants Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law or
by a Government Officer drawing a salary not less than Rs. 240,360 per annum.
(d) The applications perfected should be sent under registered cover to reach
The Director (Adminstration) 02,
Ministry of Healcare and Nutrition,
"Sausitipaya",
No. 385,
Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
on or before, 16.11.2009. The term "Recruitment of Trainees for the Post of Midwife - 2009" should be written on the
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications.
(e) In order to prove the residency within the district for 03 years certified copies of the Voter’s list from 2005 to 2007
obtained from the Grama Niladhari and certified by the Divisional Secretary should be submitted and if the name of the
applicant is not available in the V oter’s list his/her parents names should be available therein. Otherwise a certificate
by the Divisional Secretary should be submitted to confirm the residency of the applicant within the district during the
relevant period.
7. Appications will not be acknowledged.
8. Aplications received after due date will be rejected.
9. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notice will be rejected.
10. Applicants, who have fulfilled educational and other qualifications above, will be called for interviews. The applicants
should submit originals of the following documents at the interview. The candidature of those candidates who fail to submit ori ginals of
the relevant documents at the interview or who furnish false information will be cancelled.
i. Certificate of Birth;
ii. Originals of the educational certificates and in the absence of originals, the results sheet issued to external candidates o r
the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for the
examination.
iii. Certificate issued by the Department of Examinations indicating Z-Score value of the GCE (A/L) Examination.
iv. National Indentity Card/Passport/Driving Licence
v. Certifying copies of the Voter's list from 2005-2007 obtained from the Gram Niladari and Certified by the Divisional
Secretary should be submitted to confirm residency of applicants within the district the name of the applicant is not
available in the V oter’s list could the parents names should be available therein.  Otherwise she should submit the
certificate of resident obtained from the Gram Niladhari and certified by the Divisional Secretay that she is a resident
within the relevant district during the above mentioned period.
vi. In order to prove the residency within the ditrict for 03 years certified copies of the V oter’s list from 2005-2007.
11. Scheme of Training :
(a) Selected candidates will be admitted to the respective training schools of the training courses. The period of training is
11/2 years (06 months field training)
(b) The trainees will be subject to the rules and regulations in force within the Training Schools and other regulations
enforced from time to time by the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1661
(c) The Training of these trainees who fail in the examinations or whose work and conduct is unsatisfactory or who fail to
comply with the conditions of examination and leave in their schools of training during the period of training is liable to
be stopped at any time without payment of any compensation.
(d) During this period of training, trainee will be paid monthly allowance LKR 6000.
(e) The trainees when entering into the Schools of Training should enter into an agreement with the Director General of
Health Services to the effect that the trainee shall complete the training successfully without leaving the same and if given
an appointment after completion of training shall serve the Department of Health Services for a minimum of 10 years
period. In the event he/she withdras from the training or leaves the training or had to be discontinued from the training as
per paragraph (iii) above during the period of trianing , he/she shall refund to the Department the expenditure incurred for
the payment of allowances and other expenses born by the Government during the period of his/her training. Otherwise,
legal action will be taken to recover such expenses incurred by the Department.
12. Terms of engagements at the end of the training the candidate who succeed in this final examination will be given appointment
to the class III of the midwifes Service based on their merit order in the list of rank.
13. Educational  and Other Qualifications .— When filling in applications the educational and other qualifications should be
entered with due care. If the certificates furnished by appicant prove are to be false or incorrect after recruitment for  trai ning or after
giving appointment, action will be taken to discontinue that applicant from the training or to dismiss him or her from the service and also
to blacklist their names which would prevent them from re-entering tothe Government Service.
14. The selected candidates should undergo a medical examination, to assure their physical fitness to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and those who are proved unfit in the said medical examination will become disqualified to continue with their training.
15. All the officers so recruited will be subject to the provisions of the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, Circulars enforced by the Department of Health Services, other rules and regulations and orders enacted from time  to time
by the government.
16. The decision of the Secretary Health will be the final in respect of any issue arising outside the guidelines mentioned in this
Gazette Notification regarding the training.
Dr. H. A. P. K
AHANDALIYANAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385,
Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
18th September, 2009.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION 04(a) - CODE NO. 01
R
ECRUITMENT  OF STUDENTS FOR MIDWIVES TRAINING IN THE MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE AND NUTRITION 2009
RECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR MIDWIVES TRAINING FOR OTHER PROVINCES OF THE COUNTRY OTHER
THAN THE NORTHERN AND EASTERN PROVINCES/COLOMBO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL - MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE AND
NUTRITION - 2009
*Mark "3"  in the cage indicating the field you apply for:-
For other provinces of the country other than Northern and Eastern Province
Colombo Municipal Council
01. ( a) Name with Initials (in English block Letters):——————.
(b) Name in full (in English block Letters) :——————.
(c) Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :——————.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1662
02. National Identity Card Number :
03. Postal Address : Sinhala/ Tamil English
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
04. (i) Permanent Address: Sinhala/ Tamil English
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
(ii) District :——————.
(iii) Are you a permanent Resident in the District? Yes/No :——————.
(iv) If yes, how long? :——————.
05. Date of Birth :
Year:—————.Month:—————. Date :————.
Age as at 16.11.2009 :
years:—————. Months :—————. Days :—————.
06. Height :——————ft/ ——————inches
07. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka: Y es      No
(Mark  "√
 "   in the relevant cage)
08. Marital Status :——————.
09. Educational Qualifications:
(a) G. C. E. (Advanced level) Examination (please attach copy of mark list):
(Preference will be given for science stream of subjects)
District from which you registered for Examination:——————.
Year :——————.
Index No. :——————.
Z Score :——————.
Subject Grade
01.
02.
03.
04.
(b) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - First Sitting :
Year:——————.
Index No. :——————.
Subject Grade Subject  Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1663
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - Second  Sitting :
Year:——————.
Index No. :——————.
Subject Grade Subject  Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
10. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge ?
(Mark "√
 "   in the relevant cage) Y es No
If "yes" please furnish details :——————.
11. Certificate of Applicant:
(a) I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I am not
undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified be fore
selection and to dismissed without compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the selection.
Stamp Cage
—————,
Signature of applicant.
Date :——————.
12. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Miss —————— is personally known to me and she placed her signature in my presence on
this day of —————— 2009.
——————,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date:——————.
Details of Attestor :
Full Name :——————.
Designation:——————.
Address :——————.
(With official seal).
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION 04(a) - CODE No. 02
R
ECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR MIDWIFES TRAINING FOR EASTERN PROVINCE – MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE AND NUTRITION – 2009
01. ( a) Name with Initials (in English block Letters):——————.
(b) Name in full (in English block Letters) :——————.
(c) Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :——————.
02. National Identity Card Number :
03. Postal Address : Sinhala/ Tamil English
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1664
04. (i) Permanent Address: Sinhala/ Tamil English
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
(ii) District :——————.
(iii) Are you a permanent Resident in the District? Yes/No :——————.
(iv) If yes, how long? :——————.
05. Date of Birth :
Year:—————.Month:—————. Day:————.
Age as at 16.11.2009 :
years:—————. Months :—————. Days :—————.
06. Height :——————ft/ ——————inches
07. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka: Yes              No
(Mark  "√
 " in the relevant cage)
08. Marital Status :——————.
09. Educational Qualifications:
(a) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - First Sitting :
Year:——————.
Index No. :——————.
Subject Grade Subject  Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - Second Sitting :
Year:——————.
Index No. :——————.
Subject Grade Subject  Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
10. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge ?
(Mark "√
 "   in the relevant cage) Y es No
If "yes" please furnish details :——————.
11. Certificate of Applicant:
(a) I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I am
not undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I do here by agree to serve continuously within the Eastern Provincial Council area during the total period of my service, if
I am selected to serve within the Eastern Province in term of (e) (11) of the Section 05 of the Gazette Notification.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1665
Stamp Cage
—————,
Signature of applicant.
Date :——————.
12. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Miss —————— is personally known to me and she placed her signature in my presence on
this day of —————— 2009.
——————,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date:——————.
Details of Attestor :
Full Name :——————.
Designation:——————.
Address :——————.
(With official seal).
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION 04(a) - CODE No. 03
R
ECRUITMENT  OF STUDENTS FOR MIDWIFES TRAINING FOR ESTATE HOSPITAL – MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE AND NUTRITION – 2009
01. ( a) Name with Initials (in English block Letters):——————.
(b) Name in full (in English block Letters) :——————.
(c) Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :——————.
02. National Identity Card Number :
03. Postal Address : Sinhala/ Tamil English
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
04. (i) Permanent Address: Sinhala/ Tamil English
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
—————— ——————
(ii) District :——————.
(iii) Are you a permanent Resident in the District? Yes/No. :——————.
(iv) If yes, how long? :——————.
05. Date of Birth :
Year:—————.Month:—————. Day:————.
Age as at 16.11.2009 :
Years:—————. Months :—————. Days :—————.
06. Height :——————ft/ ——————inches
07. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka: Y es No
(Mark  "√
 "  in the relevant cage)
08. Marital Status :——————.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2009
1666
09. Educational Qualifications:
(a) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - First Sitting :
Year:——————.
Index No. :——————.
Subject Grade Subject  Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - Second Sitting :
Year:——————.
Index No. :——————.
Subject Grade Subject  Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
10. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge ?
(Mark "3"  in the relevant cage) Yes No
If "yes" please furnish details :——————.
11. Certificate of Applicant:
(a) I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I am no t
undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I do here by agree to serve continuously Estate Hospitals during the total period of my service, if I am selected to serve wit hin
the Estate Hospitals in term of (e) (III) of the Section 05 of the Gazette Notification.
Stamp Cage
—————,
Signature of applicant.
Date :——————.
12. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Miss —————— is personally known to me and she placed her signature in my presence on
this day of —————— 2009.
——————,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date:——————.
Details of Attestor :
Full Name :——————.
Designation:——————.
Address :——————.
(With official seal).
10-265
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.