

<!-- page 1 -->

5Calvary Church of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No. 2 of 1999
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
CALV ARY CHURCH OF SRI LANKA
(INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No.2  Of   1999
[Certified on 10th February, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 1999
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTNG, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: Rs. 4.50 Postage: Rs.3.50
(Internet Version)


<!-- page 2 -->

1Calvary Church of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No. 2 of 1999
[Certified on 10 th February, 1999]
L.D. - O . 65/96.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  CALV ARY  CHURCH  OF  SRI LANKA
WHEREAS  a society called and Known as “The
Calvary Church of Sri Lanka” has heretofore been formed by
representatives of such churches in Sri Lanka for the Purpose
of promoting co-operative fellowship among Churches of Iike
faith in Sri Lanka and abroad and transacting all matters con-
nected with the said society according to the rules agreed to
by the said society:
AND WHEREAS  the said Society has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:
1. This Act may be cited as the Calvary Church of Sri
Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.2 of 1999
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Calvary Church of Sri Lanka, (hereinafter referred to as “the
Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of the Cor-
poration hereby constituted, shall be and become a corpora-
tion with perpetual succession under the style and name of “
The Calvary Church of Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as
“the Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued in
all Courts, with full power and authority to have and to use a
common seal and to change and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects of the Corporation are hereby
declared to  be-
(a) to provide a basis of working fellowship among all
Churches of like faith which have accepted the
Statement of Faith of the Society;
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Calvary
Church of Sri
Lanka.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Calvary Church of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No. 2 of 1999
(b) to establish and maintain seminaries and such other
institutions as may be considered necessary for
the furtherance of the objects of Corporation; and
(c) to do all such other things as are incidental or
conducive to the accomplishment of the aforesaid
objects.
4. Subject to the Provisions of this Act or any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest its funds
and to engage, employ  and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of  Corporation.
    5.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two thirds of the members of the
Corporation present and entitled to vote, to make rules not
inconsistent with the Provisions of this Act or any other
written law, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) The rules of the society in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall in, so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
or any other written law, be deemed to be rules made by the
Corporation under this Act.
(3) Any rules made by the Corporation, may at a like
meeting and in like manner be altered, added to, amended or
rescinded.
(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation for the time being in force.
General Powers
 of  the
 Corporation
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Calvary Church of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No. 2 of 1999
6. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
take and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange
or otherwise dispose of the same.
7. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members authorized for that purpose by the Corporation, who
shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presence, and such Signing shall be independent of the
singning of any Person as a witness.
8. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or af-
fect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or corpo-
rate, or of any other persons, except such as are mentioned in
this Act and others claiming by, from, or under, them
9. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text. shall pre-
vail.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
How the seal of
the Corporation
is to be affixed
Sinhala text to
prevail in the
event of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Calvary Church of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No. 2 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180
(Foreign). Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT . GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year
following.