

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1992$17 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 08 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2016'11'08
No. 1992/17  -  TUESDAY,  NOVEMBER 08,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1AThis Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette extraordinary will be published seperately.
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the 2015 Amendments to the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard for Small and
Medium-sized Entities (SLFRS for SMEs) with effect from 01
st January 2017, published herewith for the purpose of the Sri
Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Amendments shall be effective for financial statements
covering period commencing on or after the first day of January Two Thousand Seventeen. Earlier application is permitted.
        By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA  ALWIS,
Secretary
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,  Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
08
th November, 2016.
PG 3306 —  (2017/03)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
2015 AMENDMENTS TO THE SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING STANDARD FOR 
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTITIES (SLFRS FOR SMES) 
 
CONTENTS   
 
1  SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTITIES      
 
2  CONCEPTS AND PERVASIVE PRINCIPLES      
 
4  STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION      
 
5  STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND INCOME STATEMENT     
 
6  STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY AND STATEMENT OF INCOME AND  RETAINED 
EARNINGS   
 
9  CONSOLIDATED AND SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      
    
10  ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES AND ERRORS    
 
11  BASIC FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS      
 
12  OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ISSUES    
 
14  INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES      
 
15  INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES     
 
16  INVESTMENT PROPERTY       
 
17  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT     
 
18  INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL    
 
19  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL    
 
20  LEASES         
 
21  PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES     
 
22  LIABILITIES AND EQUITY       
 
26  SHARE-BASED PAYMENT       
 
27  IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS       
 
28  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS       
 
29  INCOME TAX        
 
30  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION     
 

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      3A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
31  HYPERINFLATION        
 
33  RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES      
 
34  SPECIALISED ACTIVITIES       
 
35  TRANSITION TO THE SLFRS FOR SMEs     
 
APPENDICES         
 
A  EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITION     
 
B  GLOSSARY OF TERMS       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
Amendments to Section 1 Small and Medium-sized Entities  
 
Paragraph 1.3 is amended and paragraph 1.7 is added. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
Description of small and medium-sized entities 
 
1.3  An entity has public accountability if:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(b)  it holds assets in a fiduciary capacity for a broad group of outsiders as one of its primary businesses. 
This is typically the  case for  Most banks, credit unions, insurance companies, securities 
brokers/dealers, mutual funds and investment banks would meet this second criterion. 
 
... 
 
1.7  A parent entity (including the ultimate parent or any intermediate  parent) assesses its eligibility to use this 
SLFRS in its separate financial  statements on the basis of its own status without considering whether  other 
group entities have, or  the group as a whole has, public  accountability. If a parent entity by itself does  not 
have public accountability, it may present its separate financial statements  in accordance with this SLFRS 
(see Section 9 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements), even if it presents its consolidated financial 
statements in accordance  with full SLFRSs or another set of generally  accepted accounting principles  
(GAAP), such as its national  accounting standards. Any financial statements  prepared in accordance with 
this SLFRS shall be clearly distinguished from  financial statements prepared in accordance with other 
requirements.  
 
Amendments to Section 2 Concepts and Pervasive Principles  
 
A heading and paragraphs 2.14A–2.14D are added and paragraphs 2.22, 2.47 and 2.49–2.50 are amended. Deleted 
text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
Undue cost or effort  
 
2.14A An undue cost or effort exemption is specified for some requirements in this SLFRS. This exemption shall 
not be used for other requirements in this SLFRS.  
 
2.14B Considering whether obtaining or determining the information necessary to  comply with a requirement 
would involve undue cost or effort depends on the  entity’s specific circumstances  and on management’s 
judgement of the costs and benefits from applying that requirement. This judgement requires consideration 
of how the economic decisions of those that are expected to use the financial statements could be affected 
by not having that information. Applying a requirement would involve undue cost or  effort by an SME if 
the incremental cost (for example, valuers’  fees) or additional effort (for example,  endeavours by 
employees) substantially exceed the benefits that those that are  expected to use the SME’s financ ial 
statements would receive from having the  information. An assessment of undue cost or effort by an SME 
in accordance with this SLFRS would usually constitute a lower hurdle than an  assessment of undue cost 
or effort by a publicly accountable entity because SMEs are not accountable to public stakeholders.  
 
2.14C Assessing whether a requirement would involve undue cost or  effort on initial recognition in the financial 
statements, for example at the date of the transaction, should be based on  information about the costs and 
benefits of the  requirement at  the time of initial recognition. If the undue cost or effort  exemption also 
applies subsequent to initial recognition, for example to a  subsequent measurement of an item, a new 
assessment of undue cost or effort should be made at that subsequent date, based on information available 
at that date.  
 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
2.14D Except for the undue cost or effort exemption in paragraph  19.15, which is  covered by the disclosure 
requirements in paragraph19.25, whenever an undue cost or effort exemption is used by an entity, the entity 
shall disclose that fact and the reasons why applying the requirement would involve undue cost or effort.  
 
 ...  
 
 Equity  
 
2.22 Equity is the residual of recognised  assets minus recognized liabilities. It may be  subclassified in the 
statement of financial position. For example, in a corporate  entity, subclassifications may include funds 
contributed by shareholders,  retained earnings and gains or losses recognised directly in  items of other  
comprehensive income recognised as a separate component of equity. This SLFRS does not prescribe how, 
when or if amounts can be transferred between components of equity.  
 
 ...  
 
Financial assets and financial liabilities  
 
2.47 An entity measures basic financial assets  and basic financial liabilities , as defined in Section 11 Basic 
Financial Instruments, at amortised cost less impairment except for investments in non-convertible and non-
puttable preference shares and non-puttable ordinary or preference shares that are publicly traded or whose 
fair value can otherwise be measured reliably without undue cost or effort, which are measured at fair value 
with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.  
 
 ...  
 
Non-financial assets  
 
2.49 Most non-financial assets that an entity initially recognised at historical cost are  subsequently measured on 
other measurement bases. For example:  
 
(a)  An entity measures property, plant and equipment either at the lower of  depreciated cost less any 
accumulated depreciation and impairment and the recoverable amount (cost model), or the lower of the 
revalued amount and the recoverable amount (revaluation model).  
 
(b)  ...  
 
2.50 For the following types of non-financial assets, this SLFRS permits or requires measurement at fair value:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(d)  property, plant and equipment that an entity measures in accordance with the revaluation model (see 
paragraph 17.15B).  
 
Amendments to Section 4 Statement of Financial Position  
 
Paragraphs 4.2 and 4.12 are amended. New text is underlined.  
 
Information to be presented in the statement of financial position   
 
4.2  As a minimum, the statement of financial position shall include line items that present the following amounts:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(ea)  investment property carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.  
 
(f)  ...  
 
 
 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
Information to be presented either in the statement of financial position or in the notes  
 
 ...  
 
4.12 An entity with share capital shall disclose the following, either in the statement  of financial position or in 
the notes:  
 
 (a) for each class of share capital:  
 
(i)  ...  
 
(iv)  a reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding at the  beginning and at the end of the 
period. This reconciliation need not be presented for prior periods.  
 
  (v)  ...  
 
Amendments to Section 5 Statement of Comprehensive Income and Income Statement  
 
Paragraphs 5.4–5.5 are amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
 
Single-statement approach  
 
5.4  Under the single -statement approach, the statement of comprehensive income  shall include all items of 
income and expense recognised in a period unless this  SLFRS requires otherwise. This SLFRS provides 
different treatment for the following circumstances:  
 
 (a)  ...  
 
(b)  Three Four types of other comprehensive income are recognised as part of total comprehensive income, 
outside of profit or loss, when they arise:  
 
(i)  ...  
 
(iv)  changes in the revaluation surplus for property, plant and equipment measured in accordance 
with the revaluation model (see Section 17 Property, Plant and Equipment).  
 
5.5  As a minimum, an entity shall include, in the statement of comprehensive income, line items that present the 
following amounts for the period:  
 
 (a)  ...  
 
(d) tax expense excluding tax allocated to items (e), (g) and (h) below (see paragraph 29.3527).  
   
(e)  a single amount comprising the total of:  
 
  (i)  ...  
 
(ii) the post-tax gain or loss recognised on the measurement to fair  value less costs to sell or 
on attributable to an impairment, or  reversal of an impairment, of the assets in the 
discontinued operation (see Section 27 Impairment of Assets ), both at the time  and 
subsequent to being classified as a discontinued  operation, and to the disposal of the net 
assets constituting the discontinued operation.  
 
 (f) ...  
 
(g) each item of other comprehensive income (see paragraph 5.4(b))  classified by nature (excluding 
amounts in (h)). Such items shall be grouped into those that, in accordance with this SLFRS:  
 
(i) will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or  loss—ie those in paragraph 5.4(b)(i)–(ii) 
and (iv), and 
 
(ii) will be reclassified subsequently to profit or  loss when specific  conditions are met —ie 
those in paragraph 5.4(b)(iii).  
 
(h)  ...  

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      7A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Amendments to Section 6 Statement of Changes in Equity and  Statement of Income and 
Retained Earnings  
 
  Paragraphs 6.2–6.3 are amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
 
Purpose  
 
6.2 The statement of changes in equity presents an entity’s profit or loss for a reporting period, items of income 
and expense recognised in other comprehensive income for the period, the effects of changes in accounting 
policies and corrections of errors recognised in the period, and the amounts of investments by, and dividends 
and other distributions to, equity investors owners in their capacity as owners during the period.  
 
Information to be presented in the statement of changes in equity  
 
6.3 An entity shall present a The statement of changes in equity showing in the statement includes the following 
information:  
 
 (a)  ...  
 
 
(c) for each component of equity, a reconciliation between the carrying  amount at t he beginning and 
the end of the period, separately disclosing changes resulting from:  
 
  (i)  ...  
 
  (ii)  each item of other comprehensive income.  
 
(iii) the amounts of investments by, and dividends and other  distributions to, owners in their 
capacity as owners , showing  separately issues of  shares, treasury share transactions, 
dividends and other distributions to owners, and changes in ownership  interests in 
subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control.  
 
Amendments to Section 9 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements  
 
Paragraphs 9.1–9.3, 9.16, 9.18, 9.24–9.26 and 9.28 are amended and paragraphs 9.3A–9.3C and 9.23A are added. 
Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
Scope of this section  
 
9.1 This section defines the circumstances in which an entity applying this SLFRS presents consolidated 
financial statements and the procedures for preparing  those statements in accordance with this SLFRS. It 
also includes guidance on  separate financial  statements and combined financial statements  if they are 
prepared in accordance with this SLFRS. If a parent entity by itself does not  have public accountability, it 
may present its separate financial statements in  accordance with this SLFRS, even if it presents its 
consolidated financial  statements in accor dance with full SLFRSs or another set of generally accepted  
accounting principles (GAAP).  
 
Requirement to present consolidated financial statements  
 
9.2 Except as permitted or required by paragraph s 9.3 and 9.3C , a parent entity shall present consolidated 
financial statements in which it consolidates its investments in subsidiaries in accordance with this SLFRS. 
Consolidated financial statements shall include all subsidiaries of the parent.  
 
9.3 A parent need not present consolidated financial statements if: (a) both of the following conditions are met:  
 
(ia) the parent is itself a subsidiary, and  
 

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
(iib) its ultimate parent (or any intermediate parent) produces consolidated  general purpose financial 
statements that comply with full SLFRSs or with this SLFRS.; or  
 
(b)  it has no subsidiaries other than one that was acquired with the intention of selling or disposing of it 
within one year. A parent shall account for such a subsidiary:  
 
(i) at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss, if the fair value of the shares 
can be measured reliably, or   
(ii)  otherwise at cost less impairment(see paragraph 11.14(c)).  
 
9.3A Subject to paragraph 9.3B, a subsidiary is not consolidated if it is acquired and is held with the intention of 
selling or disposing of it within one year from its acquisition date (ie the date on which the acquirer obtains 
control of the acquiree). Such a subsidiary is accounted for in accordance with the  requirements in Section 
11 as for investments in paragraph 11.8(d), rather than in accordance with this section. The parent shall also 
provide the disclosure in paragraph 9.23A.  
 
9.3B If a subsidiary previously excluded from consolidation in  accordance with paragraph 9.3A is not disposed 
of within one year from its acquisition date (ie the parent entity still has control over that subsidiary):  
 
(a) the parent shall consolidate the subsidiary from the  acquisition date unless it meets the condition in  
paragraph 9.3B(b). Consequently, if the  acquisition date was in a prior period, the relevant prior 
periods shall be restated.  
 
(b) if the delay is caused by events or circumstances beyond  the parent’s control and there is sufficient 
evidence at the reporting date that the  parent remains committed to its  plan to sell or dispose of the 
subsidiary, the parent shall continue to account for the subsidiary in accordance with paragraph 9.3A.  
 
9.3C If a parent has no subsidiaries other than subsidiaries that are not required to be consolidated in accordance 
with paragraphs 9.3A–9.3B, it shall not present consolidated financial statements. However, the parent shall 
provide the disclosure in paragraph 9.23A.  
 
Uniform reporting date  
 
9.16 The financial statements of the parent and its subsidiaries used in the  preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements shall be prepared as of the  same reporting date unless it is impracticable to do so. If 
it is impracticable  to prepare the  financial statements of a subsidiary as of the same reporting date  as the 
parent, the parent shall consolidate the financial information of the subsidiary using the most recent financial 
statements of the subsidiary, adjusted for the effects of significant transactions or events that occur between 
the date of those financial statements and the date of the consolidated financial statements.  
 
 ...  
 
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries  
 
9.18 The income and expenses of a subsidiary are included in the consolidated  financial statements from the 
acquisition date . The  income and expenses of a  subsidiary are included in the consolidated financial 
statements until the date  on which the parent ceases to control the subsidiary. When a parent ceases to  
control a subsidiary , Tthe difference between the proceeds from the disposal of  the subsidiary and its 
carrying amount as of at the date of disposal, excluding the cumulative amount of any exchange differences 
that relate to a foreign  subsidiary recognised in equity in accordance with  Section 30 Foreign Currency 
Translation, that control is lost is recognised in profit or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income (or the income statement, if presented) as  the gain or loss on the disposal of the subsidiary. The 
cumulative amount of any  exchange differences that relate to a foreign subsidiary recognised in other  
comprehensive income in accordance with Section 30 Foreign Currency Translation  is not reclassified to 
profit or loss on disposal of the subsidiary. 
 
  ...  

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      9A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Disclosures in consolidated financial statements  
 
  ...  
 
9.23A In addition to the disclosure requirements in Section 11, a parent entity shall disclose the carrying amount 
of investments in subsidiaries that are not  consolidated (see paragraphs 9.3A –9.3C) at the reporting date, 
in total, either in the statement of financial position or in the notes.  
 
Separate financial statements  
 
Presentation of separate financial statements  
 
9.24 Paragraph 9.2 requires a parent to present consolidated financial  statements. This SLFRS does not require 
presentation of separate financial statements for the parent entity or for the individual subsidiaries.  
 
9.25 The financial statements of an entity that does not have a  subsidiary are not separate financial statements. 
Therefore, an entity that is not a parent but is an investor in an associate or has a venturer’s interest in a joint 
venture presents its financial statements in compliance with Section 14 or Section 15, as appropriate. It may 
also elect to present separate financial statements. Separate financial statements are a second set of financial 
statements presented by an entity in addition to any of the following:  
 
 
(a)  consolidated financial statements prepared by a parent,  
 
(b) financial statements prepared by a parent exempted from preparing consolidated financial statements 
by paragraph 9.3C, or  
 
(c) financial statements prepared by an entity that is not a parent but is an investor in an associate or has 
a venturer’s interest in a joint venture.  
 
Accounting policy election  
 
9.26 When a parent, an investor in an associate, or a venturer with an interest in a jointly controlled entity prepares 
separate financial statements and describes  them as conforming to the SLFRS for SMEs, those statements 
shall comply with all of the requirements of this SLFRS except as follows. The entity shall adopt a policy  
of accounting for its investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities in its separate 
financial statements either:  
 
(a)  at cost less impairment; ,or  
 
(b) at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss; or.  
 
(c) using the equity method following the procedures in paragraph 14.8.  
 
...  
 
Combined financial statements  
 
9.28 Combined financial statements are a single set of financial statements of two or more entities controlled by 
a single investor  under common control (as  described in paragraph 19.2(a)) . This SLFRS does not require 
combined financial statements to be prepared.  
 
Amendments to Section 10 Accounting Policies, Estimates and Errors  
 
Paragraph 10.10A is added. New text is underlined.  
 
 
 

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
Changes in accounting policies  
 
  ...  
 
10.10A The initial application of a policy to revalue assets in accordance  with Section 17  Property, Plant and 
Equipment is a change in an  accounting policy to be dealt with  as a revaluation in accordance  with 
Section 17. Consequently a change from the cost model to the revaluation model for a class of property, 
plant and  equipment shall be accounted for prospectively, instead of in  accordance with paragraphs  
10.11–10.12.  
 
Amendments to Section 11 Basic Financial Instruments  
 
Paragraphs 11.4, 11.7, 11.9, 11.11, 11.13–11.15, 11.27, 11.32 and 11.44 are amended and paragraphs 11.9A 
–11.9B are added. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
Introduction to Section 11  
 
  ...  
 
11.4 Section 11 requires an amortised cost model for all basic financial instruments  except for investments in 
non-convertible and non-puttable preference shares and non-puttable ordinary or preference shares that are 
publicly traded or whose fair value can otherwise be measured reliably without undue cost or effort.  
 
  ...  
 
Scope of Section 11  
 
11.7 Section 11 applies to all financial instruments meeting the conditions of  paragraph 11.8 except for the 
following:  
 
(a)  …  
 
(b) financial instruments that meet the definition of an entity’s own equity, including the equity component 
of compound financial instruments  issued by the entity  (see Section 22 Liabilities and Equity  and 
Section 26 Share-based Payment).  
 
(c) leases, to which Section 20 Leases or paragraph 12.3(f)  applyies. However,  the derecognition 
requirements in paragraphs 11.33–11.38 apply to the derecognition of lease receivables recognised by 
a lessor and lease  payables recognised  by a lessee, and the impairment  requirements in  paragraphs 
11.21–11.26 apply to lease receivables recognised by a lessor.  Also, Section 12 may apply to leases 
with characteristics specified in paragraph 12.3(f).  
 
(d)  ...  
 
(e) financial instruments, contracts and obligations under  share-based payment transactions to which 
Section 26 applies.  
 
(f) reimbursement assets that are accounted for in  accordance with  Section 21  Provisions and  
Contingencies (see paragraph 21.9).  
 
  ...  
 
Basic financial instruments  
 
  …  
 
11.9 A debt instrument that satisfies all of the conditions in (a) –(d) below shall be accounted for in accordance 
with Section 11: 
    
 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      11A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
(a)  Returns to the holder (the lender/creditor) assessed in the  currency in which the debt instrument is 
denominated are:  
 
  (i)  ...  
 
(iv) some combination of such fixed rate and variable rates (such as LIBOR plus 200 basis points), 
provided that both the fixed and  variable rates are positive (eg an interest rate swap with a 
positive fixed rate and negative variable rate would not meet this  criterion). For fixed and 
variable rate interest returns, interest is  calculated by multiplying the rate for the applicable 
period by the principal amount outstanding during the period.  
 
(b)  There is no contractual provision that could, by its terms, result in the  holder (the lender/creditor) 
losing the principal amount or any interest  attributable to the current period or prior periods. The 
fact that a debt  instrument is subordinated to other debt  instruments is not an example  of such a 
contractual provision.  
 
(c)  Contractual provisions that permit or require  the issuer (the debtor borrower) to prepay a debt 
instrument or permit or require  the holder (the lender/creditor) to put it back to the issuer (ie to 
demand repayment) before maturity are not contingent on future events. other than to protect:  
 
(i) the holder against a change in the credit risk of the issuer or the  instrument (for example, 
defaults, credit downgrades or loan covenant violations) or a change in control of the issuer; 
or  
 
(ii) the holder or issuer against changes in relevant taxation or law.  
 
(d)  ...  
 
11.9A Examples of debt instruments that would normally satisfy the conditions in paragraph 11.9(a)(iv) include:  
 
(a) a bank loan that has a fixed interest rate for an initial  period that then  reverts to a quoted or 
observable variable interest rate after that period; and  
 
(b) a bank loan with interest payable at a quoted or  observable variable interest rate plus a fixed rate 
throughout the life of the loan, eg LIBOR plus 200 basis points.  
 
11.9B An example of a debt instrument that would normally satisfy the  conditions set out in paragraph 11.9(c) 
would be a bank loan that  permits the borrower to  terminate the arrangement early, even  though the 
borrower may be required to pay a penalty to compensate the bank for its costs of the borrower terminating 
the arrangement early.  
 
 
 ...  
 
 
11.11 Examples of financial instruments that do not satisfy the conditions in  paragraph 11.9 (and are therefore 
within the scope of Section 12) include:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(e)  a loan receivable from a third party that gives the third party the right or obligation to prepay if the 
applicable taxation or accounting  requirements change, because such a loan does not meet the 
condition in paragraph 11.9(c).  
 
  ...  
 
Initial measurement  
 
11.13  When a financial asset or financial liability is recognised initially, an entity shall  measure it at the 
transaction price (including transaction costs except in the  initial measurement of financial assets and 
liabilities that are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss) unless the arrangement  
constitutes, in effect, a financing transaction for either the entity  (for a financial  liability) or the 

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
counterparty (for a financial asset) to the arrangement. An arrangement constitutes a financing transaction 
may take place in connection with the sale of goods or services, for example, if payment is deferred beyond 
normal business terms , for example, providing interest -free credit to a buyer for  the sale of goods , or is 
financed at a rate of interest that is not a market rate, for example, an interest-free or below market interest 
rate loan  made to an  employee. If the arrangement constitu tes a financing transaction, the entity  shall 
measure the financial asset or financial liability at the present value of the future payments discounted at a 
market rate of interest for a similar debt instrument as determined at initial recognition.  
 
     ...  
 
Subsequent measurement  
 
11.14 At the end of each reporting period, an entity shall measure financial instruments as follows, without any 
deduction for transaction costs the entity may incur on sale or other disposal:  
 
(a) Debt instruments that meet the  conditions in paragraph 11.8(b) shall be  measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method . Paragraphs 11.15 –11.20 provide guidance on determining 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. Debt instruments that are classified as current assets 
or current liabilities shall be measured at the  undiscounted amount of the cash or other consideration 
expected to be  paid or received (ie net of impairment —see paragraphs 11.21–11.26) unless the 
arrangement constitutes, in effect, a fina ncing transaction (see paragraph 11.13). If the arrangement 
constitutes a financing transaction, the entity shall measure the debt instrument at the present value of 
the future payments discounted at a market rate of interest for a similar debt instrument.  
 
(b)  ...  
 
(c) Investments in non-convertible preference shares and non -puttable ordinary or preference shares that 
meet the conditions in  paragraph 11.8(d) shall be measured as follows (paragraphs 11.27 –11.332 
provide guidance on fair value):  
 
 (i) if the shares are publicly traded or their fair value can otherwise be measured reliably without 
undue cost or effort, the investment shall be measured at fair value with changes in fair value 
recognised in profit or loss.  
 
(ii)  ...  
 
Amortised cost and effective interest method  
 
11.15 The amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability at each reporting date is the net of the following 
amounts:  
 
 (a)  ...  
 
Financial assets and financial liabilities that have no stated interest rate, that do not relate to an arrangement 
that constitutes a financing transaction  and that are classified as current assets or current liabilities are 
initially measured at an  undiscounted amount in accordance with paragraph 11.1 3 4(a). Therefore, (c)  
above does not apply to them.     
...  
 
Fair value  
 
11.27 Paragraph 11.14(c)(i) requires an investment in ordinary shares or preference shares to be measured at fair 
value if the fair value  of the shares can be  measured reliably. An entity shall use the following hierarchy 
to estimate the fair value of the shares an asset:  
 
(a) The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price for an  identical asset (or similar asset) in an active 
market. This is usually the current bid price.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      13A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
(b) When quoted prices are unavailable, the price of in a binding sale agreement  or a recent transaction 
for an identical asset (or similar asset) in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing 
parties provides evidence of fair value as long as there has not. However this price may not be a good 
estimate of fair value if there has been a significant change in economic circumstances or a significant 
lapse period of time since between the date of the binding sale agreement, or  the transaction, and the 
measurement date took place. If the entity can demonstrate that the last transaction price is not a good 
estimate of fair value (eg because it reflects the amount that an entity would receive or pay in a forced 
transaction, involuntary liquidation or distress sale), then that price is adjusted.  
 
(c) If the market for the asset is not active and any binding sale agreements  or recent transactions of an 
identical asset (or similar asset) on their own are not a good estimate of fair value, an entity estimates 
the fair value by using a another valuation technique. The objective of using a valuation  technique is 
to estimate what the transaction price would have been on  the measurement date in an arm’s length 
exchange motivated by normal business considerations.    
 
Other sections of this SLFRS make reference to the fair value guidance in  paragraphs 11.27 –11.32, including 
Section 9, Section 12, Section 14, Section 15,  and Section 16 Investment Property, Section 17 Property, Plant 
and Equipment and Section 28. In applying that guidance to assets covered  by those sections, the  reference to 
ordinary shares or preference shares in  this paragraph should be  read to include the types of assets covered by 
those sections.  
 
 ...  
 
No active market: equity instruments  
 
     ...  
 
11.32 If a reliable measure of fair value is no longer available for an asset measured at  fair value ( or is not 
available without undue cost or effort when such an  exemption is provided (see  paragraphs 11.14(c) and 
12.8(b) eg an equity instrument measured at fair value through profit or loss),  its carrying amount at  the 
last date the asset was reliably measurable becomes its new cost. The entity  shall measure the asset at this 
cost amount less impairment until a reliable measure of fair value becomes available (or becomes available 
without undue cost or effort when such an exemption is provided).  
 
     ...  
 
Statement of financial position – categories of financial assets and financial liabilities  
 
     …  
 
11.44 If a reliable measure of fair value is no longer available, or is not  available without undue cost or effort 
when such an exemption is provided, for any financial equity instruments that would otherwise be required 
to be measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with this SLFRS, the entity shall disclose 
that fact, the carrying amount of those financial instruments, and, if an undue cost or effort exemption has 
been used, the reasons why a reliable fair value measurement would involve undue cost or effort.  
 
Amendments to Section 12 Other Financial Instruments Issues  
 
Paragraphs 12.3, 12.8–12.9, 12.23, 12.25 and 12.29 are amended. Deleted text is  struck through and new text is 
underlined.  
 
Scope of Section 12  
 
12.3 Section 12 applies to all financial instruments except the following:  
 
(a)  ...  
 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
(b) interests in subsidiaries (see Section 9 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements), associates 
(see Section 14 Investments in Associates ) and joint ventures (see Section 15  Investments in Joint 
Ventures) investments in  subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures  that are accounted for in  
accordance with Section 9 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, Section 14 Investments 
in Associates or Section 15 Investments in Joint Ventures.  
 
(c)  ...  
 
(e) financial instruments that meet the definition of an entity’s own equity, including the equity 
component of compound financial  instruments issued by the entity  (see Section 22 Liabilities and 
Equity and Section 26 Share-based Payment).  
 
(f)  leases within the scope of (see Section 20 Leases). Consequently, Section 12 applies to leases that 
unless the lease could result in a loss to  the lessor or the lessee as a result of contractual terms that 
are unrelated to:  
 
(i)  ...  
 
(ii)  changes in foreign exchange rates; or  
 
(iii) a default by one of the counterparties  changes in lease  payments based on variable market 
interest rates; or  
 
(iv)  a default by one of the counterparties.  
 
(g)  ...  
 
(h) financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share -based payment transactions to which 
Section 26 Share-based Payment applies.  
 
(i)  reimbursement assets that are accounted for in accordance with  Section 21 Provisions and 
Contingencies (see paragraph 21.9).  
 
...  
 
Subsequent measurement  
 
12.8 At the end of each reporting period, an entity shall measure all financial instruments within the scope of 
Section 12 at fair value and recognise changes in fair value in profit or loss, except as follows:  
 
(a) some changes in the fair value of hedging instruments  in a designated  hedging relationship are 
required to be recognised in other comprehensive income by paragraph 12.23.  
 
(b) equity instruments that are not publicly traded and whose fair value  cannot otherwise be measured 
reliably without undue cost or effort, and contracts linked to such instruments that, if exercised, will 
result in delivery of such instruments, shall be measured at cost less impairment.  
 
12.9 If a reliable measure of fair value is no longer available without undue cost or  effort for an equity 
instrument, or a contract linked  to such an instrument that  if exercised will result in the delivery of such 
instruments, that is not publicly traded but is measured at fair value through profit or loss, its fair value at 
the last date that the instrument was reliably measurable without undue cost or effort is treated as the cost 
of the instrument. The entity shall measure the  instrument at this cost amount  less impairment until it is 
able to determine a reliable measure of fair value becomes available without undue cost or effort.  
 
  ...  
 
Hedge of variable interest rate risk of a recognised financial instrument, foreign exchange 
risk or commodity price risk in a firm commitment or highly probable forecast transaction, 
or a net investment in a foreign operation  
 
 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      15A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
12.23 If the conditions in paragraph 12.16 are met and the hedged risk is:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
the entity shall recognise in other comprehensive income the portion of the  change in the fair value of the 
hedging instrument that was effective in  offsetting the change in the fair value or expected cash flows of 
the hedged item. The entity shall recognise in profit or loss in each period any excess (in absolute amount) 
of the cumulative change in  fair value of the hedging instrument over  the cumulative change in the fair 
value of the expected cash flows since  inception of the hedge (sometimes called hedge ineffectiveness). 
The hedging gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income shall be reclassified to  profit or loss 
when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, or when the hedging relationship ends. subject to the 
requirements in paragraph 12.25. However, the cumulative amount of any exchange differences that relate 
to a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation recognised in other  comprehensive income shall not 
be reclassified to profit or loss on disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.  
 
  ...  
 
12.25 The entity shall discontinue prospectively the hedge accounting specified in paragraph 12.23 if:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to take place or if the hedged debt instrument measured at 
amortised cost is derecognised, any gain or loss on  the hedging instrument that was recognised in other 
comprehensive income shall be reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss.  
 
Disclosures  
 
  ...  
 
12.29 If an entity uses hedge accounting for a hedge  of variable interest rate risk,  foreign exchange risk, 
commodity price risk in a firm commitment or highly probable forecast transaction, or a net investment in 
a foreign operation (paragraphs 12.23–12.25) it shall disclose the following:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(d) the amount that was reclassified from other comprehensive income  to profit or loss for the period 
(paragraphs 12.23 and 12.25).  
 
(e) the amount of any excess of the cumulative change in  fair value of the  hedging instrument over the 
cumulative change in the fair value of the expected cash flows that was recognised in profit or loss for 
the period (paragraph 12.234).  
 
Amendments to Section 14 Investments in Associates  
 
Paragraph 14.15 is amended. New text is underlined.  
 
Disclosures  
 
 ...  
 
14.15 For investments in associates accounted for by the fair value model, an investor shall make the disclosures 
required by paragraphs 11.41–11.44. If an investor applies the undue cost or effort exemption in paragraph 
14.10 for any associates it shall disclose that fact, the reasons why fair value measurement would  involve 
undue cost or effort and the carrying amount of  investments in associates  accounted for under the cost 
model.  
 
Amendments to Section 15 Investments in Joint Ventures  
 
  Paragraph 15.21 is amended. New text is underlined.  
 

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
Disclosures  
 
  ...  
 
15.21 For jointly controlled entities accounted for in accordance with the fair value  model, the venturer shall 
make the disclosures required by paragraphs  11.41–11.44. If a venturer  applies the undue cost or effort 
exemption in paragraph 15.15 for any jointly  controlled entity it shall disclose that fact, the  reasons why 
fair value measurement would involve undue cost or effort and the  carrying amount of investments in 
jointly controlled entities accounted for under the cost model.  
 
Amendments to Section 16 Investment Property  
 
Paragraph 16.10 is amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.   
 
 
Disclosures  
 
16.10 An entity shall disclose the following for all investment property accounted for at fair value through profit 
or loss (paragraph 16.7):  
 
(a) ...  
 
(e) a reconciliation between the carrying amounts of investment property at the beginning and end of the 
period, showing separately:  
 
(i)  ...  
 
(iii) transfers to and from investment property, plant and equipment when a reliable measure of 
fair value is no longer available without undue cost or effort carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment (see paragraph 16.8). 
 
(iv)  ...  
 
Amendments to Section 17 Property, Plant and Equipment  
 
Paragraphs 17.5 –17.6 and 17.31 –17.32 are amended. Paragraph 17.15 is renumbered  paragraph 17.15A and a 
new paragraph 17.15 is added. Paragraphs 17.15B –17.15D and their related headings and paragraph  17.33 are 
also added. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
 
Recognition  
 
 ...  
 
17.5 Items such as Sspare parts, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment are recognised in accordance with 
this section when  they meet the definition of property, plant and equipment.  Otherwise, such items are 
classified as inventory. usually carried as inventory and recognised in profit or loss as consumed. However, 
major spare parts and stand-by equipment are property, plant and equipment when an entity expects to use 
them during more than one period. Similarly, if the spare parts  and servicing equipment can be used only 
in connection with  an item of property, plant and equipment, they are  considered property, plant and 
equipment.  
 
17.6 Parts of some items of property, plant and equipment may require replacement  at regular intervals (eg the 
roof of a building). An entity shall add to the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment 
the cost of replacing part of such an item  when that cost is incurred if the replacement part  is expected to 
provide incremental future benefits to the entity. The carrying amount of those parts that are replaced is 
derecognised in accordance with  paragraphs 17.27 –17.30 regardless of whether the replaced parts had 
been depreciated separately. If it isnot practicable for an entity  to determine the  carrying amount of the 
replaced part, the entity may use the cost of the replacement as an indication of what the cost of the replaced 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      17A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
part was at the time it was acquired or constructed. Paragraph 17.16 provides that if the major components 
of an item of property, plant and equipment have  significantly different patterns of consumption of 
economic benefits, an entity shall allocate  the initial cost of t he asset to its major components and 
depreciate each such component separately over its useful life.  
 
...  
 
Measurement after initial recognition  
 
17.15 An entity shall choose either the cost model in paragraph 17.15A  or the revaluation model in paragraph 
17.15B as its accounting  policy and shall apply  that policy to an entire class of property , plant and 
equipment. An entity shall  apply the cost model to investment property whose fair value cannot be  
measured reliably without undue cost or effort. An entity shall recognise the costs of day-to-day servicing 
of an item of property, plant and equipment in profit or loss in the period in which the costs are incurred.  
 
Cost model  
 
17.15A An entity shall measure all an item of property, plant and equipment after initial  recognition at cost less 
any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated  impairment losses . An entity shall recognise the 
costs of day-to-day servicing of an item of property, plant and equipment in profit or loss in the period in 
which the costs are incurred.  
 
Revaluation model  
 
 
17.15B An entity shall measure an item of property, plant and equipment  whose fair  value can be measured 
reliably at a revalued amount , being it  fair value at the  date of the revaluation less any subsequent 
accumulated depreciation and  subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Revaluations shall be made 
with sufficient regularity to ensure that the carrying amount does not  differ materially from that which 
would be determined using fair value at the end of the reporting period. Paragraphs 11.27–11.32 provide 
guidance on determining  fair value. If an item of  property, plant and equipment is revalued, the entire  
class of property, plant and equipment to which that asset belongs shall be revalued.  
 
17.15C If an asset’s carrying amount is increased as a result  of a revaluation, the increase shall be recognised in 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in  equity under the  heading of revaluation surplus. 
However, the increase shall be  recognised in profit or  loss to the extent that it reverses a  revaluation 
decrease of the same asset previously recognised in profit or loss.  
 
17.15D If an asset’s carrying amount is decreased as a result of a revaluation, the decrease shall be recognised in 
profit or loss. However, the decrease shall be recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent of 
any credit balance existing in the revaluation  surplus in respect of that asset. The  decrease 
recognised in other comprehensive income r educes the amount accumulated in equity under the heading 
of revaluation surplus.  
 
...  
 
Disclosures  
 
17.31 An entity shall disclose the following for each class of property, plant and equipment determined that was 
deemed appropriate in accordance with  paragraph 4.11(a) and separately for investment  property carried 
at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(e)  a reconciliation of the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the  reporting period showing 
separately:  
 
  (i)  ...  
 

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
(iv) increases or decreases resulting from  revaluations under paragraphs 17.15B–17.15D and 
from impairment  losses recognized or reversed in other comprehensive income in 
accordance with Section 27.  
 
(iv) transfers to and from  investment property if a reliable measure of  fair value becomes 
available carried at fair value through profit or loss (see paragraph 16.8).  
 
(vi)  ...  
 
17.32 The entity shall also disclose the following:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(c)  If an entity has investment property whose fair  value cannot be measured reliably without  undue 
cost or effort it shall disclose that fact  and the reasons why fair value measurement  would involve 
undue cost or effort for those items of investment property.  
 
17.33 If items of property, plant and equipment are stated at revalued amounts, the following shall be disclosed:  
 
(a) the effective date of the revaluation;  
 
(b) whether an independent valuer was involved;  
 
(c) the methods and significant assumptions applied in estimating the items’ fair values;  
 
(d) for each revalued class of property, plant and equipment, the carrying amount that would have been 
recognised had the assets been carried under the cost model; and  
 
(e) the revaluation surplus, indicating the change for the period and any restrictions on the distribution 
of the balance to shareholders.  
 
Amendments to Section 18 Intangible Assets other than Goodwill  
 
Paragraphs 18.8 and 18.20 are amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is  underlined.  
 
Acquisition as part of a business combination  
 
18.8 An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is normally shall be recognised as an asset unless 
its fair value cannot be measured reliably without  undue cost or effort at the  acquisition date. because its 
fair value can be measured with sufficient reliability. However, an intangible asset acquired in a  business 
combination is not recognised when it arises from legal  or other contractual rights and its fair value cannot 
be measured reliably because the asset either:  
 
(a)  is not separable from goodwill, or  
 
(b)  is separable from goodwill but there is no history or evidence of exchange transactions for the same 
or similar assets, and otherwise  estimating fair value  would be dependent on immeasurable 
variables. 
 
   … 
 
Amortisation over useful life  
 
  ...  
 
18.20 If an entity is unable to make a reliable estimate of the useful life of an intangible asset cannot be established 
reliably, the life shall be presumed to be  determined based on management’s best estimate but shall not 
exceed ten years.  
 
 
 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      19A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Amendments to Section 19 Business Combinations and Goodwill  
 
Paragraphs 19.2, 19.11, 19.14–19.15, 19.23 and 19.25–19.26 are amended. Deleted text is struck through and new 
text is underlined.  
 
Scope of this section  
 
19.2 This section specifies the accounting for all business combinations except:  
 
(a) combinations of entities or businesses under common control. Common control means that all of 
the combining entities or businesses  are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties  both 
before and after the business combination, and that control is not transitory.  
 
(b)  ...  
 
Cost of a business combination  
 
19.11 The acquirer shall measure the cost of a business combination as the aggregate of:  
 
(a) the fair values, at the date of exchange acquisition, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, 
and equity instruments issued by the acquirer, in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus 
 
 
(b) ...  
 
Allocating the cost of a business combination to the assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed  
 
19.14 The acquirer shall, at the acquisition date, allocate the cost of a business  combination by recognising the 
acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities and  a provision for those contingent  liabilities that satisfy the 
recognition criteria in paragraph 19.2015 at their fair values at that date except as follows:.  
 
(a)  a deferred tax asset or liability arising from the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business 
combination shall be recognised and measured in accordance with Section 29 Income Tax.  
 
(b)  a liability (or asset, if any) related to the acquiree’s  employee benefit  arrangements shall be 
recognised and measured in accordance with Section 28 Employee Benefits.  
 
Any difference between the cost of the business combination and the acquirer’s  interest in the net fair value of 
the identifiable assets, liabilities and provisions for contingent liabilities so recognised shall be accounted for in 
accordance with paragraphs 19.22 –19.24 (as goodwill or so -called ‘negative goodwill’). Any non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree is  measured at the non -controlling interest’s proportionate share of the  recognised 
amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.  
 
19.15 The acquirer shall recognise separately the acquiree’s  identifiable assets,  liabilities an d contingent 
liabilities at the acquisition date only if they satisfy the following criteria at that date:  
 
(a) ...  
 
(c) In the case of an intangible asset or a contingent  liability, its fair value can be measured reliably  
without undue cost or effort.  
 
(d) In the case of a contingent liability, its fair value can be measured reliably.  
 
...  
 
Goodwill  
 
…  
 

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
19.23 After initial recognition, the acquirer shall measure goodwill acquired in a  business combination at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses:  
 
(a) An entity shall follow the principles in paragraphs 18.19 –18.24 for amortisation of goodwill. If an 
entity is  unable to make a reliable  estimate of the useful life of  goodwill cannot be established 
reliably, the life shall be presumed to be determined based on management’s best estimate but shall 
not exceed ten years.  
 
(b)  ...  
 
For business combination(s) effected during the reporting period  
 
19.25 For each business combination that was effected  during the period, the acquirer  shall disclose the 
following:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(g) a qualitative description of the factors that make up the  goodwill recognised, such as expected 
synergies from combining operations of the acquiree and the acquirer, or intangible assets or other 
items not recognised in accordance with paragraph 19.15.  
 
For all business combinations  
 
19.26 An acquirer shall disclose the useful lives used for goodwill and a reconciliation of the carrying amount of 
goodwill at the beginning and end of the reporting period, showing separately:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
Amendments to Section 20 Leases  
 
Paragraphs 20.1 and 20.3 are amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is  underlined.  
 
Scope of this section  
 
20.1 This section covers accounting for all leases other than:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(e) leases that could lead to a loss to the lessor or the lessee as a result of  contractual terms that are 
unrelated to changes in the price of the leased  asset, changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in 
lease payments based on variable market interest rates, or a default by one of the counterparties (see 
paragraph 12.3(f)).  
 
(f)  ...  
 
20.3 Some arrangements, such as some outsourcing arrangements,  telecommunication contracts that provide 
rights to capacity, and take-or-pay contracts, do not take the legal form of a lease but convey rights to use 
assets in return for payments. Such  arrangements are in substance leases of assets, and  they should shall 
be accounted for under this section.  
 
Amendments to Section 21 Provisions and Contingencies  
 
 Paragraph 21.16 is amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      21A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Disclosures about contingent assets  
 
21.16 If an inflow of economic benefits is probable (more likely than not) but not virtually certain, an entity shall 
disclose a description of the nature of the contingent assets at the end of the reporting period, and, when 
practicable without unless it would involve  undue cost or effort, an estimate of their  financial effect, 
measured using the principles set out in paragraphs 21.7 –21.11. If it is impracticable to make this 
disclosure, such an estimate would involve  undue cost or effort, the entity shall disclose  that fact shall be 
stated and the reasons why estimating the financial effect would involve undue cost or effort.  
 
Amendments to Section 22 Liabilities and Equity  
 
Paragraphs 22.8 –22.9, 22.15 and 22.17 –22.18 are amended and paragraphs 22.3A,  22.15A–22.15C and their 
related heading, 22.18A–22.18B, and 22.20 and its related headings are added. Deleted text is struck through and 
new text is underlined.  
 
Classification of an financial instrument as liability or equity    
     ...  
 
22.3A An entity shall classify a financial instrument as a financial  liability or as equity  in accordance with the 
substance of the contractual arrangement, not merely its legal form, and in accordance with the definitions 
of a financial liability and an  equity instrument. Unless an entity has an unconditional right to  avoid 
delivering cash or anot her financial asset to settle a  contractual obligation, the  obligation meets the 
definition of a financial liability, and is classified as such, except for those instruments classified as equity 
instruments in accordance with paragraph 22.4.  
 
     ...  
 
Original issue of shares or other equity instruments   
 
  ...  
 
22.8 An entity shall measure the equity instruments, other than those issued as part of a business combination 
or those accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 22.15A–22.15B, at the fair value of the cash or other 
resources received or receivable, net of direct costs of issuing the equity instruments transaction costs. If 
payment is deferred and the time value of money is material, the initial measurement shall be on a present 
value basis.   
22.9 An entity shall account for the transaction costs of an equity transaction as a deduction from equity, net of 
any related income  tax benefit . Income tax  relating to the transaction costs shall be  accounted for in 
accordance with Section 29 Income Tax.  
 
  ...  
 
Convertible debt or similar compound financial instruments  
 
 ...  
 
22.15 In periods after the instruments were issued, the entity shall account for the liability component as follows:  
 
(a) in accordance with Section 11 Basic Financial  Instruments if the liability component meets the  
conditions in paragraph 11.9.  In these cases, the entity shall systematically recognise any  difference 
between the liability  component and the principal amount payable at maturity as additional  interest 
expense using the effective interest method  (see paragraphs 11.15–11.20). The appendix to this 
section illustrates the issuer’s accounting for convertible debt when the liability component meets the 
conditions in paragraph 11.9.  
 
 
(b)  in accordance with Section 12 Other Financial Instruments Issues if the liability component does not 
meet the conditions in paragraph 11.9.  

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments   
 
22.15A An entity may renegotiate the terms of a financial liability with a creditor of the entity with the result that 
the entity extinguishes the liability fully or partially by issuing equity instruments to the creditor. Issuing 
equity instruments  constitutes consideration  paid in accordance with paragraph 11.38. An entity  shall 
measure the equity instruments issued at their fair value. However, if the  fair value of the equity 
instruments issued cannot be measured reliably without undue cost or effort, the equity instruments shall 
be measured at the fair value  of the financial liability  extinguished. An entity shall derecognise the 
financial liability, or part of the financial liability, in accordance with paragraphs 11.36–11.38.  
 
22.15B If part of the consideration paid relates to a modification of the terms of the remaining part of the liability, 
the entity shall allocate the consideration paid  between the part of the liability extinguished and the part 
that remains outstanding. This allocation should be made on a reasonable basis. If the remaining liability 
has been substantially modified, the entity shall account for the modification as the extinguishment of the 
original liability and the recognition of a new liability as required by paragraph 11.37.  
 
22.15C An entity shall not apply paragraphs 22.15A–22.15B to transactions in situations in which:  
 
(a) the creditor is also a direct or indirect shareholder and is acting in its capacity as a direct or indirect 
existing shareholder.  
 
(b) the creditor and the entity are controlled by the same party or parties before and after the 
transaction and the substance of the transaction includes an equity distribution by, or contribution 
to, the entity.  
 
(c)  extinguishing the financial liability by issuing equity instruments is in accordance with the original 
terms of the financial liability (see paragraphs 22.13–22.15).  
 
  ...  
 
Distributions to owners  
 
22.17 An entity shall reduce equity for the amount of distributions to its owners  (holders of its equity 
instruments), net of any related  income tax benefits.  Paragraph 29.26 provides guidance on accounting 
for a withholding tax on dividends. Income tax relating to distributions to owners shall be accounted for  
in accordance with Section 29.  
 
22.18 Sometimes an entity distributes assets other than cash as dividends to its owners  (‘non-cash 
distributions’). When a  entity declares such a distribution and has  an obligation to  distribute non-cash 
assets to its owners, it shall recognise a liability. It shall measure the liability at the fair value of the assets 
to be distributed unless it meets the conditions in paragraph 22.18A. At the end of each reporting period 
and at the date of settlement, the entity shall review and adjust the carrying amount of the dividend payable 
to reflect changes in the fair value of the assets to be distributed, with any changes recognised in equity 
as adjustments to the amount of the distribution. When an entity settles the  dividend payabl e, it shall 
recognise in profit  or loss any difference between the  carrying amount of the assets distributed and the 
carrying amount of the dividend payable.  
 
22.18A If the fair value of the assets to be distributed cannot be  measured reliably without undue cost or effort, 
the liability shall be measured at the carrying amount of the assets to be distributed. If prior to settlement 
the fair value of the  assets to be distributed can be measured reliably without undue cost or effort,  the 
liability is remeasured at fair value with a corresponding adjustment made to the amount of the distribution 
and accounted for in accordance with paragraph 22.18.  
 
22.18B Paragraphs 22.18–22.18A do not apply to the distribution of a non-cash asset that is ultimately controlled 
by the same party or  parties before and after the  distribution. This exclusion applies  to the separate, 
individual and consolidated financial statements of an entity that makes the distribution.  
 
  ...  

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      23A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Disclosures  
 
22.20 If the fair value of the assets to be distributed as described in paragraphs 22.18–22.18A cannot be measured 
reliably without undue cost or effort, the entity shall disclose that fact and the  reasons why a reliable fair 
value measurement would involve undue cost or effort.  
 
Amendments to Section 26 Share-based Payment  
 
Paragraphs 26.1, 26.9, 26.12, 26.16–26.17 and 26.22 and their related heading are  amended and paragraphs 
26.1A–26.1B are added. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
 
Scope of this section  
 
26.1 This section specifies the accounting for all share-based payment transactions including those that are 
equity- or cash- settled or those in which  the terms of the arrangement  provide a choice of whether the 
entity settles the transaction in cash (or other assets) or by issuing equity instruments.:  
 
(a) equity-settled share-based payment transactions , in which the entity  acquires goods or services as 
consideration for equity instruments of the entity (including shares or share options);  
 
(b)  cash-settled share -based payment transactions , in which  the entity acquires goods or services by 
incurring liabilities to the supplier of those goods or services for amounts that are based on the price 
(or value) of the entity’s shares or other equity instruments of the entity; and  
 
(c)  transactions in which the entity receives or acquires goods  or services  and the terms of the 
arrangement provide either  the entity or the  supplier of those goods or  services with a choice of 
whether the entity settles the transaction in cash (or other assets) or by issuing equity instruments.  
 
26.1A A share-based payment transaction may be settled by another  group entity (or a shareholder of any group 
entity) on behalf of the entity receiving the goods or services. This section also applies to an entity that:  
 
(a)  receives goods or services when  another entity in the  same group (or a  shareholder of any group  
entity) has the obligation to settle the share-based payment transaction; or  
 
(b) has an obligation to settle a share -based payment transaction when another entity in 
the same group receives the goods or services  
 
unless the transaction is clearly for a purpose other than the payment for goods  or services supplied to the 
entity receiving them.  
 
26.1B In the absence of specifically identifiable goods or services,  other circumstances may indicate that goods 
or services have been (or will be) received, in which case this section applies (see paragraph 26.17).  
 
  …  
Measurement principle  
 
  …  
 
26.9 A grant of equity instruments might be conditional on employees satisfying specified vesting conditions 
related to service or performance . For example, An example of a vesting condition relating to service is 
when a grant of shares or share options to an employee is typically conditional on the employee remaining 
in th e entity’s employ for a specified period of time. There might be  Examples of vesting conditions 
relating to performance conditions that must be satisfied, such as are when a grant of shares or share options 
is conditional on a specified period of service and on the entity achieving a specified growth in  profit (a 
non-market vesting condition) or a specified increase in the entity’s  share price (a market vesting 
condition). Vesting conditions are accounted for as follows:  
 

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
(a) Aall vesting conditions related to solely employee service or to a  non-market performance condition 
shall be taken into  account when  estimating the number of equity instruments expected to vest.  
Subsequently, the entity shall revise that estimate , if necessary, if new information indicates that the 
number of equity  instruments expected to  vest differs from previous estimates. On the vesting date, 
the entity shall revise the estimat e to equal the number of equity  instruments that ultimately vested. 
Vesting conditions related to employee service or to a non market performance condition shall not be 
taken into account when  estimating the fair value of the shares,  share options or other equity  
instruments at the measurement date.  
 
 
(b) Aall market vesting conditions and non-vesting conditions shall be taken into account when estimating 
the fair value of the shares, or share options or other equity instruments at the measurement date, with 
no subsequent adjustment to the estimated fair value, irrespective of the outcome of the market or non 
vesting condition, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.  
 
   …  
 
Modifications to the terms and conditions on which equity instruments were granted  
 
26.12 If aAn entity may modifyies the vesting terms and conditions on which equity instruments are granted in 
a manner that is beneficial to the employee, for  example, by reducing the exercise price of an option or 
reducing the vesting  period or by modifying or eliminating a performance co ndition,. Alternatively an 
entity may modify the terms and conditions in a manner that is not beneficial to the employee, for example, 
by increasing the vesting period or  adding a performance condition . Tthe entity shall take the modified 
vesting conditions into account in accounting for the share-based payment transaction, as follows:  
 
  
(a)  …  
 
 
The requirements in this paragraph are expressed in the context  of share-based payment transactions with 
employees. The  requirements also apply to  share-based payment transactions  with parties other than 
employees if these  transactions are  measured by reference to the fair value of the equity  instruments 
granted, but reference to the grant date refers to the date that the entity obtains the goods or the counterparty 
renders service.  
 
  …  
 
Group plans  
 
26.16  If a share-based payment award is granted by a parent entity to the employees of one or more subsidiaries 
in the group  an entity  to the employees of one or more  group entities , and the  parent group presents 
consolidated financial statements using either the SLFRS for SMEs or full SLFRSs, such subsidiaries are 
permitted the group entities are permitted, as an alternative to the treatment set out in  paragraphs 26.3–
26.15, to recognise and measure the share-based payment expense (and the related capital contribution by 
the parent) on the basis of a reasonable allocation of the expense recognised for the group.  
 
Government-mandated plans Unidentifiable goods or services  
 
26.17  If the identifiable consideration received appears to be less than the fair value of  the equity instruments 
granted or the liability incurred, this situation typically indicates that other consideration (ie unidentifiable 
goods or services) has been  (or will be) received. For  example, Ssome jurisdictions have programmes  
established under law  by which equity investors owners (such as employees) are  able to acquire equity 
without providing goods or services that can be  specifically identified (or by providing goods or services 
that are clearly less than  the fair value of the equity instruments granted). This indicates that other  
consideration has been or will be received (such as past or future employee  services). These are equity -
settled share-based payment transactions within t he scope of this section . The entity shall measure the 
unidentifiable goods or services received (or to be received) as the difference between the fair value of the 
share-based payment and the fair value of any identifiable goods or services  received (or to be received) 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      25A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
measured at the grant date. For cash-settled transactions, the liability shall be remeasured at the end of each 
reporting period until it is settled in accordance with paragraph 26.14.  
 
Disclosures  
 
...  
 
26.22 If the entity is part of a group share -based payment plan, and it recognises and measures its share -based 
payment expense on the basis of a reasonable  allocation of the expense recognised for the group, it shall 
disclose that fact and the basis for the allocation (see paragraph 26.16).  
 
Amendments to Section 27 Impairment of Assets  
 
 Paragraphs 27.1, 27.6, 27.14 and 27.30–27.31 are amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text 
 is underlined.  
 
Objective and scope  
 
27.1  An impairment loss occurs when the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. This 
section shall be applied in  accounting for the impairment of all assets other than the following, for which 
other sections of this SLFRS establish impairment requirements:  
 
(a)  …  
 
(f)  assets arising from construction contracts (see Section 23 Revenue).  
 
  …  
 
General principles  
 
…  
 
27.6 An entity shall recognise an impairment loss immediately in profit or loss,  unless the asset is carried at a 
revalued amount in accordance with the revaluation model in Section 17 Property, Plant and Equipment . 
Any impairment loss of a revalued asset shall be treated as a revaluation decrease in accordance  with 
paragraph 17.15D.  
 
…  
 
Fair value less costs to sell  
 
27.14 Fair value less costs to sell is the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset in an arm’s length transaction 
between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the  costs of disposal (paragraphs 11.27 –11.32 provide 
guidance on fair value) . The best evidence of the fair value less costs to sell of an asset is a  price in a 
binding sale agreement in an arm’s length transaction or a market price in an active  market. If there is no 
binding sale agreement or active market for an asset, fair  value less costs to sell is bas ed on the best 
information available to reflect the  amount that an entity could obtain, at the reporting date, from the 
disposal of the asset in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, after deducting 
the costs of disposal. In d etermining this amount, an entity  considers the outcome of recent transactions 
for similar assets within the same industry.  
 
    …  
 
Reversal where recoverable amount was estimated for an individual impaired asset  
 
27.30 When the prior impairment loss was based on the recoverable amount of the individual impaired asset, the 
following requirements apply:  
 
(a) ….  
 
 

<!-- page 26 -->

26A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
(b) If the estimated recoverable amount of the asset exceeds its carrying amount, the entity shall increase 
the carrying amount to recoverable  amount, subject to the  limitation described in (c) below. That 
increase is a reversal of an im pairment loss. The entity shall  recognise the reversal immediately in 
profit or loss, unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount in accordance with the revaluation model 
in paragraph 17.15B. reversal of an impairment loss of a revalued  as shall be treated as a revaluation 
increase in accordance with paragraph 17.15C.  
 
 
(c)  ...  
 
Reversal when recoverable amount was estimated for a cash-generating unit  
 
27.31 When the original impairment loss was based on the  recoverable amount of the  cash-generating unit to 
which the asset belongs, the following requirements apply:  
 
(a) ...  
 
 
(b) If the estimated recoverable amount of the cash -generating unit exceeds  its carrying amount, that 
excess is a reversal of an impairment loss. The  entity shall allocate the amount of tha t reversal to the 
assets of the unit, except for goodwill, pro rata with the carrying amounts of those assets,  subject to 
the limitation described in (c) below. Those increases in carrying amounts shall be treated as reversals 
of impairment losses for individual assets and be recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the 
asset is carried at a revalued amount in accordance with the revaluation model paragraph 17.15B. Any 
reversal of an impairment  loss of a revalued asset shall be tr eated as a revaluation increase in 
accordance with paragraph 17.15C.  
 
 
(c)  ...  
 
 
Amendments to Section 28 Employee Benefits  
 
Paragraphs 28.30, 28.41 and 28.43 are amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
 
Other long-term employee benefits  
 
  …  
 
28.30 An entity shall recognise a liability for other long -term employee benefits measured at the net total of the 
following amounts:  
 
(a) …  
 
 
An entity shall recognise the net change in the liability in accordance with  paragraph 28.23  during the 
period, other than a change attributable to benefits paid to employees during the period or to contributions 
from the employer, as  the cost of its  other long-term employee benefits during the period. That cost is  
recognised entirely in profit or loss as an expense unless another  section of this SLFRS requires it to be 
recognised as part of the cost of an asset, such as inventories or property, plant and equipment.  
 
 …    
Disclosures about defined benefit plans  
 
28.41 An entity shall disclose the following information about defined benefit plans  (except for any defined 
multi-employer benefit plans that are accounted for as  defined contri bution plans in accordance with 
paragraph 28.11, for which the  disclosures in paragraph 28.40 apply instead). If an entity has more than 
one defined benefit plan, these disclosures may be made in total, separately for each  plan, or in such 
groupings as are considered to be the most useful:  
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      27A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 
(a)   ….  
 
(b) a narrative explanation if the entity uses any of the simplifications in paragraph 28.19 in measuring its 
defined benefit obligation, it shall disclose that fact and the reasons why using the projected unit credit 
method to measure its ob ligation and cost under define  benefit plans would involve undue cost or 
effort.  
 
 
(d)  ….  
 
…  
 
Disclosures about termination benefits  
 
28.43 For each category of termination benefits that an entity provides to its employees, the entity shall disclose 
the nature of the benefit, its accounting policy, and the amount of its obligation and the extent of funding 
at the reporting date. 
 
Section 29 Income Tax  
 
 Section 29 has been revised. Paragraphs 29.1–29.41 and their related headings are added.  
 
Scope of this section  
 
29.1 For the purpose of this SLFRS, income tax  includes all domestic and foreign taxes  that are based on 
taxable profit. Income tax also includes taxes, such as withholding taxes, that are payable by a subsidiary, 
associate or joint venture on distributions to the reporting entity.  
 
29.2 This section covers accounting for income tax. It requires an entity to recognise  the current and future tax 
consequences of transactions and other events that have been recognised in the financial statements. These 
recognised tax amounts  comprise current tax  and deferred tax . Current tax is income tax payable  
(recoverable) in respect of the taxable profit (tax loss) for the current period or  past periods. Deferred tax 
is income tax payable or recoverable in future  periods, generally as a result of the entity recovering or 
settling its assets and liabilities for their current carrying amount, and the tax effect of the carryforward of 
currently unused tax losses and tax credits.  
 
29.3 This section does not deal with the methods of accounting for government grants (see Section 24 
Government Grants). However, this section does deal with  the accounting for temporary differences that 
may arise from such grants.  
 
Recognition and measurement of current tax  
 
29.4 An entity shall recognise a current tax liability for tax payable on taxable profit  for the current and past 
periods. If the amount paid for the current and past periods exceeds the amount payable for those periods, 
the entity shall recognise the excess as a current tax asset.  
 
29.5  An entity shall recognise a current tax asset for the benefit of a tax loss that can be carried back to recover 
tax paid in a previous period.  
 
29.6 An entity shall measure a current tax liability (asset) at the amount it expects to pay (recover) using the tax 
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. An entity shall regard 
tax rates and tax laws as substantively enacted when the remaining steps in the enactment process have not 
affected the outcome in the past and are unlikely to  do so. Paragraphs 29.32 –29.33 provide additional 
measurement guidance.  
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 28 -->

28A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
Recognition of deferred tax  
 
General recognition principle  
 
29.7 It is inherent in the recognition of an asset or a liability that the reporting entity expects to recover or settle 
the carrying amount of that asset or liability. If it is  probable that recovery or settlement of that carrying  
amount will make future tax payments larger (smaller) than they would be if such recovery or settlement  
were to have no tax consequences, this section requires an entity to recognise a  deferred tax liability 
(deferred tax asset) with certain limited exceptions. If the entity expects to recover the carrying amount 
of an asset or settle the carrying amount of a liability without affecting taxable profit, no deferred tax arises 
in respect of the asset or liability.  
 
29.8  An entity shall recognise a deferred tax asset or liability for tax recoverable or payable in future periods as 
a result of past transactions or events. Such tax  arises from the differences between the carrying amounts 
of the entity’s assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position and the amounts attributed to those 
assets and liabilities by the tax authorities (such differences are called  ‘temporary differences’), and the 
carryforward of currently unused tax losses and tax credits.  
 
Tax bases and temporary differences  
 
29.9 The tax base of an asset is the amount that will be deductible for tax purposes against any taxable economic 
benefits that will flow to an entity when it  recovers the carrying amount of the asset. If those economic 
benefits will not be taxable, the tax base of the asset is equal to its carrying amount.  
 
29.10  The tax base of a liability is its carrying amount less any amount that will be  deductible for tax purposes 
in respect of that liability in future periods. In the case of revenue that is received in advance, the tax base 
of the resulting liability  is its carrying amount less any amount of the revenue that will not be taxable in  
future periods.  
 
29.11 Some items have a tax base but are not recognised as assets and l iabilities in the  statement of financial 
position. For example, research and development costs  are recognised as an expense when determining 
accounting profit in the period in which they are incurred but may not be permitted as a deduction  when 
determining taxable profit (tax loss) until a later period. The difference between the tax base of the research 
and development costs, being the amount  that the taxation authorities will permit as a deduction in future 
periods, and the carrying amount of nil is a deductible temporary difference that results in a deferred tax 
asset.  
 
29.12  Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement 
of financial position and its tax base. In  consolidated financial statem ents, temporary differences are 
determined by  comparing the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated  financial 
statements with the appropriate tax base. The tax base is determined  by reference to a consolidated tax 
return in those jurisdictions in which such a return is filed. In other jurisdictions, the tax base is determined 
by reference to the tax returns of each entity in the group.  
 
29.13 Examples of situations in which temporary differences arise include:  
 
(a)  the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business  combination are recognised at 
their fair values in accordance with  Section 19 Business Combinations and Goodwill , but no 
equivalent adjustment is made for tax purposes (for example, the tax base of an  asset may remain at 
cost to the previous owner). The resulting deferred tax asset or liability affects the amount of goodwill 
that an entity recognises.  
 
(b) assets are remeasured but no equivalent adjustment is made for tax purposes. For example, this SLFRS 
permits or requires certain assets to be remeasured at fair value or to be revalued (for example, Section 
16 Investment Property and Section 17 Property, Plant and Equipment).  
 
(c) goodwill arises in a business combination, for example, the tax base of goodwill will be nil if taxation 
authorities do not allow the amortisation or the impairment of goodwill as a deductible expense when 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      29A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
taxable profit is determined and do not permit the cost of goodwill to be treated as a deductible expense 
on disposal of the subsidiary.  
 
(d)  the tax base of an asset or a liability on initial recognition differs from its initial carrying amount.  
 
(e)  the carrying amount of investments in subsidiaries, branches and  associates or interests in joint 
ventures becomes different from the tax base of the investment or interest.  
 
 
Not all the above temporary differences will give rise to deferred tax assets and  liabilities (see paragraphs 
29.14 and 29.16).  
 
Taxable temporary differences  
 
29.14 A deferred tax liability shall be recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except to the extent that 
the deferred tax liability arises from:  
 
(a)  the initial recognition of goodwill; or  
 
(b)  the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a transaction that:  
 
  (i)  is not a business combination; and  
 
  (ii)  at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss).  
 
However, for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in  subsidiaries, branches and 
associates, and interests in joint ventures, a deferred  tax liability shall be recognised in accordance with 
paragraph 29.25.  
 
29.15 Some temporary differences arise when income or expense is included in accounting profit in one period 
but is included in taxable profit in a different  period. Such temporary differences are often described as 
timing differences.  The following are examples of temporary differences of this kind that are  taxable 
temporary differences and that therefore result in deferred tax liabilities:  
 
(a) interest revenue is included in accounting profit on a time -proportion basis but may, in some 
jurisdictions, be included in taxable profit when  cash is collected. The ta x base of any receivable 
with respect to such  revenues is nil, because the revenues do not affect taxable profit until  cash is 
collected; and  
 
(b) depreciation used when determining taxable profit (tax loss) may differ  from that used when 
determining accounti ng profit. The temporary  difference is the difference between the carrying 
amount  of the asset and  its tax base, which is the original cost of the asset less all deductions in  
respect of that asset permitted by the taxation authorities when determining taxable profit of the 
current and prior  periods. A taxable  temporary difference arises, and results in a deferred tax 
liability, when tax depreciation is accelerated. If the tax depreciation is less rapid than the accounting 
depreciation, a deductible temporary difference arises resulting in a deferred tax asset (see paragraph 
29.16).  
 
Deductible temporary differences  
 
29.16 A deferred tax asset shall be recognised for all deductible temporary differences  to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profit will be available against  which the deductible temporary difference can be 
utilised, unless the deferred  tax asset arises from the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a  
transaction that:     
(a)  is not a business combination; and  
 
(b)  at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss).  
 
However, for deductible temporary differences associated with investments in  subsidiaries, branches and 
associates, and for interests in joint ventures, a deferred tax asset shall be recognised in accordance with paragraph 
29.26.  
 

<!-- page 30 -->

30A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
29.17 The following are examples of deductible temporary differences that result in deferred tax assets:  
 
(a)  retirement benefit costs may be deducted when  determining accounting profit at the time that the 
service is provided by the employee, but  deducted when determining taxable profit either when 
contributions are paid to a fund by the entity or when retirement benefits are paid by  the entity. A 
temporary difference exists between the carrying amount  of the liability and its tax base; the tax 
base of the liability is usually nil.  Such a deductible temporary difference results in a deferred tax 
asset because economic benefits will flow to the entity in the form of a  deduction from taxable 
profits when contributions or retirement benefits are paid.  
 
 (b) certain assets may be carried at fair value, without an equivalent  adjustment being made for tax 
purposes. A deductible temporary difference arises if the tax base of the asset exceeds its carrying 
amount.  
 
29.18 The reversal of deductible temporary differences results in deductions when  taxable profits of future 
periods are determined. It is probable that taxable  profit will be available against which a deductible 
temporary difference can be utilised when there are sufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the 
same taxation authority and the same taxable entity that are expected to reverse:  
 
(a)  in the same period as the expected reversal of the deductible temporary difference; or  
 
(b)  in periods into which a tax loss arising from the deferred tax asset can be carried back or forward.  
 
In such circumstances, the deferred tax asset is recognised in the period in which the deductible temporary 
differences arise.  
 
29.19 When there are insufficient taxable temporary differences  relating to the same  taxation authority and the 
same taxable entity, the deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that:  
 
(a) it is probable that the entity will have sufficient taxable profit relating to the same taxation authority 
and the same taxable entity in the same period as the reversal of the deductible temporary difference 
(or in the  periods into which a tax loss arising from the deferred tax asset can be  carried back or 
forward).When evaluating whether it will have sufficient taxable profit in future periods, an entity 
ignores taxable amounts arising from deductible temporary differences that are expected to originate 
in future periods, because the deferred tax asset arising from those deductible temporary differences 
will itself require future taxable profit in order to be utilised, or  
 
(b) tax planning opportunities are available to the entity that will create  taxable profit in appropriate 
periods.  
 
29.20 When an entity has a history of recent losses, the entity considers the guidance in paragraphs 29.21–29.22.  
 
Unused tax losses and unused tax credits  
 
29.21 A deferred tax asset shall be recognised for the carryforward of unused tax losses  and unused tax credits 
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit  will be available against which the unused tax 
losses and unused tax credits can be utilised. When assessing the probability that taxable profit will be 
available against which the unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised, an  entity considers the 
following criteria:  
 
(a) whether the entity has sufficient tax able temporary differences relating  to the same taxation 
authority and the same taxable entity, which will result in taxable amounts against which the unused 
tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised before they expire;  
 
(b) whether it is probable that the entity will have taxable profits before the unused tax losses or unused 
tax credits expire;  
 
(c) whether the unused tax losses result from identifiable causes which are  unlikely to recur; and  
 

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      31A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
(d) whether tax planning opportunities are available to the entity that will  create taxable profit in the 
period in which the unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised.  
 
To the extent that it is not probable that taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses 
or unused tax credits can be utilised, the deferred tax asset is not recognised.  
 
29.22 The existence of unused tax losses is strong evidence that future taxable profit  may not be available. 
Consequently, when an entity has a history of recent losses, the entity recognises a deferred tax asset arising 
from unused tax losses or  tax credits only to the extent that the entity has sufficient taxable temporary  
differences or to the extent that there is convincing other eviden ce that sufficient taxable p rofit will be 
available against which the unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised by the entity.  
 
Reassessment of unrecognised deferred tax assets  
 
29.23 At the end of each reporting period, an entity reassesses any unrecognised  deferred tax assets. The entity 
recognises a previously unrecognised deferred tax asset to the extent that it has become probable that future 
taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.  
 
Investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint ventures  
 
29.24  Temporary differences arise when the carrying amount of investments in  subsidiaries, branches and 
associates, and interests in joint ventures (for example, in the parent’s consolidated financial statements 
the carrying amount of a subsidiary is the net consolidated assets of that subsidiary, including the carrying 
amount of any related goodwill) becomes different from the tax base (which is often cost) of the investment 
or interest. Such differences may arise in a number of different circumstances, for example:  
 
(a) the existence of undistributed profits of subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures;  
 
(b) changes in foreign exchange rates when a parent and its subsidiary are based in different countries; 
and  
 
(c)  a reduction in the carrying amount of an investment in an associate to its recoverable amount.  
 
Investments may be accounted for differently in the parent’s separate financial statements compared to the 
consolidated financial statements, in which case the  temporary difference associated with that investment 
may also differ. For  example, in the parent’s separate financial statement the carrying amount of a  
subsidiary will depend on the accounting policy chosen in paragraph 9.26.  
 
29.25  An entity shall recognise a deferred tax liability for all taxable temporary  differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates,  and interests in joint ventures, except to the extent 
that both of the following conditions are satisfied:  
 
(a) the parent, investor or venturer is able to control the timing of  the reversal of  the temporary 
difference; and  
 
(b)  it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
 
29.26  An entity shall recognise a deferred tax asset for all deductible temporary  differences arising from 
investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and interests in joint ventures, only to the extent that 
it is probable that:  
 
(a)  the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future; and  
 
(b) taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.  
 
Measurement of deferred tax  
 
29.27 An entity shall measure a deferred tax liability (asset) using the tax rates and tax  laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. An  entity shall regard tax rates and tax  laws as 
substantively enacted when the remaining steps in the enactment process have not affected the outcome in 
the past and are unlikely to do so.  

<!-- page 32 -->

32A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
 
29.28  When different tax rates apply to different levels of taxable profit, an  entity shall measure deferred tax  
liabilities (assets) using the average enacted or  substantively enacted rates that it expects to be applicable  
to the taxable profit (tax loss) of the periods in which it expects the  deferred tax liability to be settled  
(deferred tax asset to be realised).  
 
29.29 The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets shall reflect  the tax consequences that 
would follow from the manner in which the entity  expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the 
carrying amount of the  related assets and liabilities. Consequently, an entity measures deferred tax  
liabilities and deferred tax assets using the tax rate and the tax base that are  consistent with the expected 
manner of recovery or settlement. For example, if the temporary difference arises from an item of income 
that is expected to be taxable as a capital gain in a future period, the deferred tax expense is measured using 
the capital gain tax rate and the tax base  that is consistent with recovering  the carrying amount through 
sale.  
 
29.30 If a deferred tax liability or deferred tax asset arises from a non -depreciable asset  measured using the 
revaluation model in Section 17, the measurement of the  deferred tax liability or deferred tax asset shall 
reflect the tax consequences of recovering the carrying amount of the non -depreciable asset through sale. 
If a deferred tax liability or asset arises from investment property that is measured  at fair value, there is a 
rebuttable presumption that the carrying amount of the investment property will be recovered through sale. 
Accordingly, unless the  presumption is rebutted, the measurement of the deferred tax liability or the  
deferred tax asset shall reflect the tax consequences  of recovering the carrying  amount of the investment 
property entirely through sale. This presumption is  rebutted if the investment property is depreciable and 
is held within a business  model whose objective is to consume substantially all of the economic benefits  
embodied in the investment property over time, rather than through sale. If the presumption is rebutted, the 
requirements of paragraph 29.29 shall be followed.  
 
29.31 The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset shall be reviewed at the end of each reporting period. An entity 
shall reduce the carrying amount of a deferred tax  asset to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the benefit of part or all of that recognised deferred tax  
asset to be utilised. Any such reduction shall be reversed to the extent that it become probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available.  
 
Measurement of both current and deferred tax  
 
29.32 An entity shall not discount current or deferred tax assets and liabilities.  
 
29.33 In some jurisdictions, income tax is payable at a higher or lower rate if part or  all of the profit or retained 
earnings is paid out as a dividend to shareholders of  the entity. In other jurisdictions, income tax may be 
refundable or payable if part or all of the profit or retained earnings is paid out as a dividend to shareholders 
of the entity. In both of those circumstances, an entity shall measure current and deferred tax at the tax rate 
applicable to undistributed profits until the entity recognises a liability to pay a dividend. When the entity  
recognises a liability to pay a dividend, it shall recognise the resulting current or  deferred tax liability 
(asset), and the related tax expense (income).  
 
Withholding tax on dividends  
 
29.34 When an entity pays dividends to its shareholders, it may be  required to pay a portion of the dividends to 
taxation authorities on behalf of shareholders. Such  an amount paid or payable to taxation authorities is 
charged to equity as a part of the dividends.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      33A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
Presentation  
 
Allocation in comprehensive income and equity  
 
29.35  An entity shall recognise tax expense in the same component of total comprehensive income (ie continuing 
operations, discontinued operations, or other comprehensive income) or equity as the transaction or other 
event that resulted in the tax expense.  
 
Current/non-current distinction  
 
29.36 When an entity presents current and non-current assets, and current and non-current liabilities, as separate 
classifications in its statement of financial position, it shall not classify any deferred tax assets (liabilities) 
as current assets (liabilities).  
 
Offsetting  
 
29.37 An entity shall offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities, or offset deferred tax assets and deferred 
tax liabilities if, and only if, it has a legally  enforceable right to set off the amounts and the entity can 
demonstrate without undue cost or effort that it plans either to settle on a net basis or to realise the  asset 
and settle the liability simultaneously. 
 
Disclosures  
 
29.38 An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the nature and 
financial effect of the current and deferred tax consequences of recognised transactions and other events.  
 
29.39  An entity shall disclose separately the major  components of tax expense  (income). Such components of 
tax expense (income) may include:  
 
(a) current tax expense (income).  
 
(c) any adjustments recognised in the period for current tax of prior periods.  
 
(c)  the amount of deferred tax expense (income) relating to the origination  and reversal of temporary 
differences.  
 
(d) the amount of deferred tax expense (income) relating to changes in tax  rates or the imposition of 
new taxes.  
 
(e)  the amount of the benefit arising from a previously unrecognized tax loss, tax credit or temporary 
difference of a prior period that is used to reduce tax expense.  
 
(f)  adjustments to deferred tax expense (income) arising from a change in the tax status of the entity or 
its shareholders.  
 
(g)  deferred tax expense (income) arising from the write -down, or reversal of  a previous write -down, 
of a deferred tax asset in accordance with paragraph 29.31.  
 
(h)  the amount of tax expense (income) relating to those changes in accounting policies and errors that 
are included in profit or loss in  accordance with Section 10 Accounting Policies, Estimates and 
Errors, because they cannot be accounted for retrospectively.  
 
29.40  An entity shall disclose the following separately:  
 
(a)  the aggregate current and deferred tax relating to items that are  recognised as items of other 
comprehensive income.  
 
(b)  the aggregate current and deferred tax relating to items that are charged or credited directly to equity.  
 
(c)  an explanation of any significant differences between the tax expense  (income) and  accounting 
profit multiplied by the applicable tax rate. For  example such differences  may arise from 
transactions such as revenue  that are exempt from taxation or expenses t hat are not deductible in  
determining taxable profit (tax loss).  
 

<!-- page 34 -->

34A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
(d) an explanation of changes in the applicable tax rate(s) compared with  the previous 
reporting period. 
  
 
(e)  for each type of temporary difference and for each type of unused tax  losses and tax credits:  
 
 (i) the amount of deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets at  the end of the reporting 
period, and  
 
 (ii) an analysis of the change in deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets during the period.  
 
(f) the amount (and expiry date, if any) of deductible temporary differences,  unused tax losses and 
unused tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is  recognised in the statement of financial 
position.  
 
(g) in the circumstances described in paragraph 29.33, an explanation of the  nature of the potential 
income tax consequences that would result from the payment  of dividends to its shareholders.  
 
29.41 If an entity does not offset tax assets and liabilities in accordance with paragraph 29.37 because it is unable 
to demonstrate without undue cost or  effort that it plans to settle them on a net basis or realise them 
simultaneously, the entity shall disclose the amounts that have not been offset and the reasons why applying 
the requirement would involve undue cost or effort.  
 
Amendments to Section 30 Foreign Currency Translation  
 
 Paragraphs 30.1 and 30.18 are amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is  underlined.  
 
Scope of this section  
 
30.1 An entity can conduct foreign activities in two ways. It may have transactions in  foreign currencies or it 
may have foreign operations . In addition, an entity  may present its financial statements in a foreign 
currency. This section  prescribes how to include foreign currency transactions and foreign oper ations in 
the financial statements of an entity and how to translate financial statements into a presentation currency. 
Accounting for financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency that derive their value from the 
change in a specified foreign  exchange rate (for example, foreign currency  forward exchange contracts)  
and hedge accounting of foreign currency items are  dealt with in Section 11 Basic Financial Instruments 
and Section 12 Other Financial Instruments Issues.  
 
...  
 
Translation to the presentation currency  
 
   ...  
 
30.18 An entity whose functional currency is not the currency of a hyperinflationary  economy shall translate its 
results and financial position into a different presentation currency using the following procedures:  
 
     (a)  ...  
 
(c) All resulting exchange differences shall be recognised in other comprehensive income and reported 
as a component of equity. They shall not subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss.  
 
Amendments to Section 31 Hyperinflation  
 
 Paragraphs 31.8–31.9 are amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
   
 
 

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      35A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
 Statement of financial position  
…  
 
31.8  All other assets and liabilities are non-monetary:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(ba) Some non-monetary items are carried at amounts current at dates other  than that of acquisition or 
the reporting date, for example, property, plant and equipment that has been revalued at some earlier 
date. In these cases, the carrying amounts are restated from the date of the revaluation.  
 
(c)    ...  
 
31.9 At the beginning of the first period of application of this section, the components of equity, except retained 
earnings and any revaluation surplus , are restated by applying a general price index from the dates the 
components were contributed or otherwise arose. Any revaluation surplus that arose in previous periods is 
eliminated. Restated retained earnings are derived from all  the other amounts in the restated statement of 
financial position.  
 
Amendments to Section 33 Related Party Disclosures  
 
 Paragraph 33.2 is amended. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.   
 
 
Related party defined  
 
33.2 A related party is a person or entity that is related to the entity that is preparing its financial statements (the 
reporting entity).  
 
(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to a reporting entity if that person:  
 
(i) ...  
 
(ii) has control or joint control over the reporting entity; or  
 
(iii) has joint control or significant influence over the reporting entity or has significant voting 
power in it.  
 
(b) An entity is related to a reporting entity if any of the following conditions applies:  
 
 (i)  ...  
 
(ii) either one entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint 
venture of a member of a group of which the other entity is a member).  
 
(iii)  both entities are joint ventures of the same a third entity.  
 
(iv) either one entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is an associate of the 
third entity.  
 
(v) the entity is a post -employment benefit plan for the benefit of  employees of either the 
reporting entity or an entity related to  the reporting entity. If the reporting entity is itself 
such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also related to the plan reporting entity.  
 
(vi)  ...  
 
(vii) a person identified in (a)(i) has significant voting power in the  entity the entity, or any 
member of a group of which it is a part,  provides key management personnel services to 
the reporting entity or to the parent of the reporting entity.  
 
(viii) a person identified in (a)(ii) has significant influence over the  entity or significant voting 
power in it is a member of the key management personnel of the entity (or of a parent of 
the entity).  
 

<!-- page 36 -->

36A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
(ix) a person or a close member of that person’s family has both  significant influence over the 
entity or significant voting power in it and joint control over the reporting entity.  
 
(x) a member of the key management personnel of the entity or of a  parent of the entity, or a 
close member of that member’s family, has control or joint control over the reporting entity 
or has significant voting power in it.  
 
Amendments to Section 34 Specialised Activities  
 
Paragraph 34.7 and paragraphs 34.10 –34.11 and their related heading are amended  and paragraphs 34.11A –
34.11F are added. Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
Disclosures – fair value model  
 
34.7 An entity shall disclose the following with respect to its biological assets measured at fair value:  
 
(a)  ...  
 
(e) a reconciliation of changes in the carrying amount of biological assets  between the beginning and the 
end of the current period. The reconciliation shall include:  
 
 
(i)  ...  
 
 
This reconciliation need not be presented for prior periods. 
   ...  
 
Disclosures – cost model  
 
34.10 An entity shall disclose the following with respect to its biological assets measured using the cost model:  
 
 
(a)  ...  
 
 
(b) an explanation of why fair value cannot be measured reliably without undue cost or effort.  
 
 
(c)  ...  
 
Extractive activities Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources  
 
34.11 An entity using this SLFRS that is engaged in the exploration for, or evaluation or extraction of, mineral 
resources (extractive activities) shall account for expenditure on the acquisition or development of tangible 
or intangible assets for use in extractive activities by applying Section 17 Property, Plant and Equipment 
and Section 18 Intangible Assets other than  Goodwill, respectively determine an accounting policy that  
specifies which expenditures are recognised as  exploration and evaluation assets in accordance with 
paragraph 10.4 and apply the policy consistently. When an entity has an obligation to dismantle or remove 
an item, or to restore the site, such obligations and costs are accounted  for in accordance with Section 17 
and Section 21 Provisions and Contingencies . An entity is exempt from applying paragraph 10.5 to its 
accounting policies for the recognition and measurement of exploration and evaluation assets.  
 
34.11A The following are examples of expenditures that might be included in the initial  measurement of 
exploration and evaluation assets (the list is not exhaustive): 
 
 
(a) acquisition of rights to explore;  
 
 
(b) topographical, geological, geochemical and geophysical studies;  
 
 
(c)  exploratory drilling;  
 
 

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      37A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
(d)  trenching;  
 
 
(e)  sampling; and  
 
 
(f) activities in relation to evaluating the technical feasibility and  commercial viability of extracting a 
mineral resource.  
 
 
Expenditures related to the development of mineral resources shall not be recognised as exploration and 
evaluation assets.  
 
34.11B Exploration and evaluation assets shall be measured on initial recognition at cost. After initial recognition, 
an entity shall apply Section 17 Property, Plant and  Equipment and Section 18 Intangible Assets other 
than Goodwill to the exploration  and evaluation assets according to the nature of the assets acquired 
subject to paragraphs 34.11D–34.11F. If an entity has an obligation to dismantle or remove an item, or to 
restore the site, such obligations and costs are accounted for in  accordance with Section 17 and Section 
21 Provisions and Contingencies.  
 
34.11C Exploration and evaluation assets shall be assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest 
that the carrying amount of an exploration and  evaluation asset may exceed its recoverable amount. An 
entity shall measure, present and disclose any resulting impairment loss in accordance with  Section 27, 
except as provided by paragraph 34.11F.  
 
34.11D For the purposes of exploration and evaluation assets only, paragraph 34.11E  shall be applied instead of 
paragraphs 27.7 –27.10 when identifying an  exploration and evaluation asset that may be impaired. 
Paragraph 34.11E uses the term ‘assets’ but applies equally to separate exploration and evaluation assets 
or a cash-generating unit.  
 
34.11E One or more of the following facts and circumstances indicate that an entity  should test exploration and 
evaluation assets for impairment (the list is not exhaustive):  
 
 
(a) the period for which the entity has the right to explore in the specific  area has expired during the 
period or will expire in the near future, and is not expected to be renewed.  
 
 
(b) substantive expenditure on further exploration for, and evaluation of,  mineral resources in the 
specific area is neither budgeted nor planned.  
 
 
(c) exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area have not led to the discovery 
of commercially viable quantities of  mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue 
such activities in the specific area.  
 
 
(d) sufficient data exists to indicate that, although a development in the specific area is likely to proceed, 
the carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from 
successful development or by sale.  
 
The entity shall perform an impairment test, and recognise any impairment  loss, in accordance with 
Section 27.  
 
34.11F An entity shall determine an accounting policy for allocating exploration and  evaluation assets to cash -
generating units or groups of cash -generating units for  the purpose of assessing such assets for 
impairment.  
 
Amendments to Section 35 Transition to the SLFRS for SMEs  
 
Paragraphs 35.2 and 35.9–35.11 are amended and paragraph 35.12A is added. Deleted text is struck through and 
new text is underlined.  
 
 

<!-- page 38 -->

38A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
 
Scope of this section  
 
…  
 
35.2 An entity can be a first-time adopter of the SLFRS for SMEs once that has applied the SLFRS for SMEs 
in a previous reporting period, but whose most recent previous annual financial statements did not contain 
an explicit and unreserved  statement of compliance with the SLFRS for SMEs , must either apply this 
section or apply the SLFRS for SMEs retrospectively in accordance with Section 10 Accounting Policies, 
Estimates and Errors as if the entity had never stopped applying the SLFRS for SMEs. If an entity using 
the SLFRS for SMEs stops using it for one or more reporting periods and then is required, or chooses, to 
adopt it again later, the special  exemptions, simplifications and other requirements in this section do not 
apply to the re-adoption. When such an entity does not elect to apply this section, it is still required to apply 
the disclosure requirements in paragraph 35.12A in addition to the disclosure requirements in Section 10.  
 
...  
 
Procedures for preparing financial statements at the date of transition  
 
…  
 
35.9 On first -time adoption of this SLFRS, an entity shall not retrospectively change the  accounting that it 
followed under its previous financial reporting framework for any of the following transactions:  
 
(a) ...  
 
 
(f) government loans. A first-time adopter shall apply the requirements in  Section 11 Basic Financial 
Instruments, Section 12 and Section 24 Government Grants prospectively to government loans 
existing at the date of transition to this SLFRS. Consequently, if a first-time adopter did not, under 
its previous GAAP, recognise and measure a government loan on a basis that is consistent with this 
SLFRS, it shall use its previous GAAP  carrying amount of the loan at the date of transition to this 
SLFRS as the carrying amount of the loan at that date and shall not recognise the  benefit of any 
government loan at a below-market rate of interest as a government grant.  
 
35.10 An entity may use one or more of the following exemptions in preparing its first  financial statements that 
conform to this SLFRS:  
 
 
(a)  …  
 
 
(da) Event-driven fair value measurement as deemed cost. A first-time adopter may have established a 
deemed cost in accordance with its  previous GAAP for some or all of its assets and liabilities by 
measuring them at their fair value at one particular date because of an event, for example, a valuation 
of the business, or parts of the business, for the purposes of a planned sale. If the measurement date:  
 
 
(i) is at or before the date of transition to this SLFRS, the entity may use such event-driven fair 
value measurements as deemed cost at the date of that measurement.  
 
 
(ii) is after the date of transition to this SLFRS, but during the periods  covered by the first 
financial statements that conform to this  SLFRS, the event -driven fair value measurements 
may be used as  deemed cost when the event occurs. An entity shall recognise the  resulting 
adjustments directly in retained earnings (or, if appropriate, another category of equity) at the 
measurement date. At the date of transition to this SLFRS, the entity shall either establish the 
deemed cost by applying the criteria in paragraph  35.10(c)–(d) or measure those assets and 
liabilities in accordance with the other requirements in this section.  
 
  
(e)   ...  
 
 

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      39A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
(f) Separate financial statements. When an entity prepares separate financial statements, paragraph 9.26 
requires it to account for its  investments in subsidiaries, associates, and jointly controlled entities  
either:  
 
 
(i) at cost less impairment;, or  
 
 
(ii) at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss; or  
 
 
(iii) using the equity method following the procedures in paragraph 14.8.  
 
 
If a first-time adopter measures such an investment at cost, it shall  measure that investment at one of 
the following amounts in its separate opening statement of financial position prepared in accordance 
with this SLFRS at the date of transition:  
 
 
(i)  ...  
 
 
(g)  ...  
 
 
(h) Deferred income tax. A first-time adopter is not required to recognise, at may  apply Section 29 
prospectively from the date of transition to the SLFRS for SMEs, deferred tax assets or deferred tax 
liabilities relating to  differences between the tax basis and the carrying amount of any assets  or 
liabilities for which recognition of those deferred tax assets or  liabilities would involve undue cost 
or effort.  
 
 
(i)  ...  
 
 
(m) Operations subject to rate regulation . If a first -time adopter holds  items of property, plant and 
equipment or intangible assets that are used, or were  previously used, in operations subject to rate 
regulation (ie to provide goods or services to customers at prices/rates established by an  authorised 
body) it may elect to use the previous GAAP carrying amount of those items at the date of transition 
to this SLFRS as their deemed cost. If an entity applies this exemption to an item, it need not apply 
it to all items. The entity shall test those assets for impairment at the date of transition to this SLFRS 
in accordance with Section 27.  
 
 
(n) Severe hyperinflation. If a first-time adopter has a functional currency  that was subject to severe 
hyperinflation:  
 
 
(i) if its date of transition to this SLFRS is on, or after, the functional currency normalisation 
date, the entity may elect to measure  all assets and liabilities held before the functional 
currency normalisation date at fair value on the date of transition to this SLFRS and use that 
fair value as the deemed cost of those assets and liabilities at that date;  and  
 
 
(ii) if the functional currency normalisation date falls within a twelve month comparative period, 
an entity may use a comparative period of less than twelve months, provided that a complete 
set of financial statements (as required by paragraph 3.17) is provided for that shorter period.  
 
35.11 If it is impracticable for an entity to make restate the opening statement of financial position at the date 
of transition for  one or more of the adjustments  required by paragraph 35.7 at the of date transition, the 
entity shall apply  paragraphs 35.7 –35.10 for such adjustments in the earliest period for which it is  
practicable to do so, and shall identify the data presented for  prior periods that  are not comparable with 
data for the period period in which it prepares its first  financial statements that conform to this SLFRS 
which amounts in the financial  statements have not been restated . If it is impracticable for an entity to 
provide any of the disclosures required by this SLFRS, for any period before the period in which it prepares 
its first financial statements that conform to this SLFRS including those for  comparative periods, the 
omission shall be disclosed.  
 

<!-- page 40 -->

40A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
Disclosures  
 
Explanation of transition to the SLFRS for SMEs  
 
...  
 
35.12A An entity that has applied the SLFRS for SMEs in a previous period, as described in paragraph 35.2, shall 
disclose:  
 
 
(a) the reason it stopped applying the SLFRS for SMEs;  
 
(b) the reason it is resuming the application of the SLFRS for SMEs; and  
 
(c) whether it has applied this section or has applied the SLFRS for SMEs retrospectively in accordance 
with Section 10.  
 
 
Appendix A is added.  
 
Appendix A Effective date and transition  
 
A1 2015 Amendments to the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard s ( SLFRS for SMEs) , adopted in June  2015, 
amended paragraphs 1.3, 2.22, 2.47, 2.49 –2.50, 4.2, 4.12,  5.4–5.5, 6.2–6.3, 9.1–9.3, 9.16, 9.18, 9.24 –9.26, 
9.28, 11.2, 11.4, 11.7, 11.9, 11.11,  11.13–11.15, 11.27, 11.32, 11.44, 12.3, 12.8 –12.9, 12.23, 12.25, 12.29, 
14.15, 15.21, 16.10, 17.5–17.6, 17.15, 17.31 –17.32, 18.8, 18.20, 19.2, 19.11, 19.14 –19.15, 19.23,  19.25–
19.26, 20.1, 20.3, 21.16, 22.8 –22.9, 22.15, 22.17 –22.18, 26.1, 26.9, 26.12,  26.16–26.17, 26.22, 27.1, 27.6, 
27.14, 27.30–27.31, 28.30, 28.41, 28.43, 30.1, 30 .18, 31.8–31.9 33.2, 34.7, 34.10 –34.11, 35.2, 35.9 –35.11 
and the glossary of terms,  revised Section 29 and added paragraphs 1.7, 2.14A –2.14D, 9.3A–9.3C, 9.23A, 
10.10A, 11.9A –11.9B, 17.15A –17.15D, 17.33, 22.3A, 22.15A –22.15C, 22.18A–22.18B, 22.20, 26.1A –
26.1B, 34.11A –34.11F, 35.12A and A2 –A3. An entity  shall apply those paragraphs for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January  2017. Amendments to Sections 2 –34 shall be applied retrospectively in  
accordance with Section 10 Accounting Policies, Estimates a nd Errors except as stated  in paragraph A2. 
Earlier application of 2015 Amendments to the SLFRS for SMEs is permitted. If an entity applies 2015 
Amendments to the SLFRS for SMEs for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.  
 
A2 If it is impracticable  for an entity to apply any new or revised requirements in  the amendments to Sections 
2–34 retrospectively, the entity shall apply those requirements in the earliest period for which it is practicable 
to do so. In addition an entity:  
 
(a) may elect to app ly the revised Section 29 prospectively from the  beginning of the period in which 
it first applies 2015 Amendments to the SLFRS for SMEs.  
 
(b)  shall apply the amendments to paragraph 19.11 prospectively from the  beginning of the period in 
which it first applies 2015 Amendments to the SLFRS for SMEs. This paragraph is only applicable 
if the entity has business combinations within the scope of Section 19.  
 
(c) shall apply the amendments to paragraphs 2.49 –2.50, 5.4, 17.15, 27.6, 27.30–27.31 and 31.8–31.9 
and new paragraphs 10.10A, 17.15A –17.15D and 17.33 prospectively from the beginning of the 
period it first applies  2015 Amendments to the SLFRS for SMEs . These paragraphs are only 
applicable if the entity applies the revaluation model to any classes of property, plant and equipment 
in accordance with paragraph 17.15.  
 
A3 The entity shall identify which amounts in the financial statements have not  been restated as a result of 
applying paragraph A2.  
 
 
 

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      41A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Amendments to the glossary of terms  
 
The glossary is placed in Appendix B. Only those definitions amended, added or deleted are shown. Deleted text 
is struck through and new text is underlined.  
 
Appendix B 
Glossary of terms  
 
...  
 
accounting profit Profit or loss for a period before deducting tax expense.  
 
...  
 
active market A market in which transactions for the asset or liability take  place with sufficient 
frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. 
 
...   
cash-settled  A share-based payment transaction in which the entity acquires goods or services by  
share-based payment incurring a liability to transfer cash or other assets to  the supplier of those goods or 
transaction     services for amounts that are based on the price (or value) of the entity’s shares or other  
equity instruments ( including shares or share options ) of the  entity or another group 
entity.  
 
  ...  
 
close members of the Those family members who may be expected to influence, or be influenced by, that person 
family of a person  in their dealings with the entity, including: 
 
       (a)  that person’s children and spouse or domestic partner; 
 
(b) children of that person’s spouse or domestic partner; and 
 
(c) dependants of that person or that person’s spouse or domestic partner.  
 
 
Combined financeil The financial statements of two or more entities controlled by a single investor  
statements.  
 
.    ..  
 
deductible temporary  Temporary differences that will result in amounts that are deductible in determining  
differences taxable profit (tax loss) of future periods when the carrying amount of the asset or liability 
is recovered or settled.  
 
…  
 
deferred tax assets The amounts of iIncome tax recoverable in future reporting periods in respect of:  
 
(a) deductible temporary differences;  
 
(b) the carryforward of unused tax losses; and  
 
 
(c) the carryforward of unused tax credits.  
 
deferred tax liabilities   The amounts of iIncome tax payable in future reporting periods in respect of taxable 
  temporary differences.  
 
...  
 

<!-- page 42 -->

42A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
equity-settled      A share-based payment transaction in which the entity: 
share-based payment       (a) receives goods or services as consideration for its own equity instruments of the 
transaction    entity (including shares or share options).; or 
 
(b) receives goods or services but has no obligation to settle  the transaction with the 
supplier.  
 
...  
 
foreign operation An entity that is a subsidiary, associate, joint venture or branch of a reporting entity, the 
activities of which are based or  conducted in a country or currency other than those of 
the reporting entity.  
 
...  
 
functional currency   The  date when  an  entity’s functional  currency no longer  has either,  or both, of  the   
normalisation date two characteristics of severe  hyperinflation, or when there is a change in the entity’s  
functional currency to a currency that is not subject to severe hyperinflation.  
 
...  
 
market vesting  A condition upon which the exercise price, vesting or exercisability of an equity  
condition instrument depends that is related to the market price of the entity’s equity instruments, 
such as attaining a specified share price or a specified amount of intrinsic value of a share 
option, or achieving a specified target  that is based on the market price of the entity’s 
equity instruments relative to an index of market prices of equity  instruments of other 
entities.  
 
…  
minimum lease  The payments over the lease term that the lessee is or can be required to make,  
payments excluding contingent rent, costs for services  and taxes to b e paid by and reimbursed to 
the lessor, together with:  
 
(a) for a lessee, any amounts guaranteed by the lessee or by a  party related to the 
lessee; or 
 
       (b) for a lessor, any residual value guaranteed to the lessor by: 
 
(i)  the lessee; 
 
(ii)  a party related to the lessee; or   
(iii)  a third party unrelated to the lessor that is  financially capable of 
discharging the obligations under the guarantee.  
 
However, if the lessee has an option to purchase the asset at a  price that is expected to 
be sufficiently lower than fair value at  the date the option becomes exercisable for it to 
be reasonably certain, at the inception of the lease, that the option will be  exercised, the 
minimum lease payments comprise the minimum payments payable over the lease term 
to the expected date of  exercise of this purchase option and the payment required to  
exercise it.  
...  
 
public accountability Accountability to those existing and potential resource providers  and others external to 
the entity who make economic decisions  but are not in a position to demand reports 
tailored to meet their  particular information needs . An entity has public  accountability 
if: 
 
(a)  its debt or equity instruments are traded in a public  market or it is in the process 
of issuing such instruments for trading in a public market (a domestic or foreign 

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      43A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
stock exchange or an over -the-counter market, including local  and regional 
markets), or 
 
(b) it holds assets in a fiduciary capacity for a broad group of  outsiders as one of its 
primary businesses. This is typically the case for banks, credit unions, insurance  
companies, securities brokers/dealers, mutual funds and investment banks.  
 
related party A related party is a person or entity that is related to the entity  that is preparing  its 
financial statements (the reporting entity). 
 
(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related  to a reporting 
entity if that person: 
 
(i)  is a member of the key management personnel of the reporting entity or 
of a parent of the reporting entity; 
 
(ii)  has control or joint control over the reporting entity;  or 
 
(iii) has joint control or significant influence over the reporting entity or has 
significant voting power in it. 
 
       (b) An entity is related to a reporting entity if any of the following conditions applies: 
 
 (i) the entity and the reporting entity are members of the  same group 
(which means that each parent,  subsidiary and fellow subsidiary is 
related to the others). 
 
 (ii) either one entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an 
associate or joint venture  of a member of a group of which the other 
entity is a member). 
 
  (iii) both entities are joint ventures of a the same third entity. 
 
  (iv) either one entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is 
an associate of the third entity.  
 
(v) the entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees 
of either the reporting  entity or an entity related to the reporting entity.  
If the reporting entity is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are 
also related to the plan reporting entity. 
 
  (vi) the entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a). 
 
(vii) a person identified in (a)(i) has significant voting power in the entity the 
entity, or any  member of a  group of which it is a part, provides key  
management personnel services to the reporting entity or to the parent of 
the reporting entity. 
 
(viii)  a person identified in (a)(ii) has significant  influence over the entity or 
significant voting  power in it  is a member of the key management  
personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the entity). 
 
(ix) a person or a close member of that person’s family  has both significant 
influence over the entity or significant voting power in it and joint control 
over the reporting entity. 
 
 (x) a member of the key management personnel of  the entity or of a parent 
of the entity, or a close member of that member’s family, has control or  
joint control over the reporting entity or has  significant voting power in 
it.  
 
...  

<!-- page 44 -->

44A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2016  
 
separate financial  Those presented by an parent, an investor in an associate or a venturer in a jointly  
statements controlled entity, in which the investments are accounted for on the basis of the direct 
equity interest rather  than on the basis of the reported results and net assets of the  
investees entity could elect, in accordance with paragraphs  9.25–9.26, to account for its 
investments in subsidiaries,  jointly-controlled entities and associates either at cost less  
impairment, at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss, or using 
the equity method following the procedures in paragraph 14.8.  
 
...  
severe hyperinflation The currency of a hyperinflationary economy is subject to severe hyperinflation if it has 
both of the following characteristics: 
 
(a) a reliable general price index is not available to all  entities with transactions and 
balances in the currency; and 
 
(b)  exchangeability between the currency and a relatively  stable foreign currency 
does not exist.  
 
share-based payment  An agreement between the entity (or another group entity or any shareholder of any  
arrangement group entity) and another party (including an  employee) that entitles the other party to 
receive: 
 
(a) cash or other assets of the entity for amounts that are based on the price (or value) 
of equity instruments (including shares or share options) of the entity or  another 
group entity; or 
 
(b)  equity instruments (including shares or share options) of  the entity  or another 
group entity  
provided the specified vesting conditions, if any, are met.  
 
share-based payment  A transaction in which the entity: 
transaction                          
(a)  receives goods or services from the supplier of those goods or services (including 
an employee services) in a share-based payment arrangement; or 
 
(b) as consideration for equity instruments of the entity (including shares or share 
options), or acquires goods or services by incurring liabilities to the supplier of 
those goods or services for amounts that are based on the price of the entity’s 
shares or other equity instruments of the entity  incurs an obligation to settle the 
transaction with the supplier in a share-based payment arrangement when another 
group entity receives those goods or services.  
...  
tax base basis The measurement, under applicable substantively enacted tax  law, of an asset, liability 
or equity instrument tax base of an asset or liability is the amount attributed to that asset 
or liability for tax purposes.  
 
…  
taxable temporary  Temporary differences that will result in taxable amounts in determining taxable profit  
differences (tax loss) of future periods when the carrying amount of the asset or liability is recovered 
or settled. 
 
temporary  Differences between the carrying amount of an asset, or liability or other item in the  
differences  financial statements statement of financial  position and its tax basis that the entity 
expects will affect  taxable profit when the carrying amount of the asset or liability  is 
recovered or settled (or, in the case of items other than assets  and liabilities, will affect 
taxable profit in the future) base.  
 

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      45A 
 PART I  : SEC.(I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
...  
transaction cost Incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, issue or disposal 
financial instruments) of a financial instrument.  An incremental cost is one that would not have been incurred  
 if the entity had not acquired, issued or disposed of the financial instrument. 
 
 
...  
 
vesting conditions  The conditions that determine whether the entity receives the services that entitle the  
counterparty to receive cash, other assets  or equity instruments of the entity, under a 
share-based payment arrangement. Vesting conditions are either service conditions or  
performance conditions. Service conditions require the  counterparty to complete a 
specified period of service. Performance conditions require the counterparty to complete 
a specified period o f service and specified performance targets to  be met (such as a 
specified increase in the entity’s profit over a  specified period of time). A performance 
condition might include a market vesting condition.  
 
vesting period  The period during which all the  specified vesting conditions of a  share-based payment 
arrangement are to be satisfied.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 