

<!-- page 1 -->

1A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
w;s úfYI
wxl 2271$10 - 2022 ud¾;= ui 15 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2022'03'15
No. 2271/10  - tuesdAy,  mArch 15,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
RuLES  APPLICAbLE TO AN EXChANGE 
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
1A-  PG  5785—15 (03/2022)
Government Notifications
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021.
 Viraj Dayaratne Pc
 chairman
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka.
colombo
15
th march, 2022

<!-- page 2 -->

2A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Rules
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to an exchange.
General Interpretation 1.	 The	words	and	terms	defined	in	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	of	Sri	Lanka	
Act, No. 19 of  2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same meaning 
assigned to it in the said Act:
“commission” means the securities and e xchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Exchange”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	of	the	SEC	Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and shall 
include alternate directors, a chief executive officer, compliance officer 
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Liquid Assets” means unencumbered cash or investments which can be readily 
converted to cash such as bank/call deposits, re-purchase agreements with 
maturity of less than three (3) months, commercial papers which are endorsed 
or guaranteed by a licensed commercial bank or licensed specialized bank with a 
term to maturity of less than three (3) months and government issued securities 
with a term to maturity of one (1) year or less or any other form of instruments 
as determined by the commission;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act,  
No. 19 of 2021;
“shareholders’ Funds” means the amount of equity of the company, which belongs 
to the shareholders of the company;
“stock Broker” shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	of	the	SEC	
Act;
“Stock	Dealer”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	of	the	SEC	
Act;
“trading Participant” shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	of	
the sec Act.
Applicability 2. the rules set out herein shall apply to an exchange licensed under the sec Act.
3. every exchange shall comply with:
(a) the rules set out herein and any amendments thereto;
(b) provisions of the sec Act;
(c) directives issued from time to time by the commission; and
(d) rules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key 
management Person of a market Institution.

<!-- page 3 -->

3A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Requirement for a licence 5.	 No	entity	shall	engage	in	the	function	of	an	Exchange	without	having	first	obtained	
a licence from the commission.
Procedure to obtain a 
licence
6.	 The	grant	of	a	licence	shall	be	a	two	(2)	stage	process.	An	applicant	may	in	the	first	
instance apply for in-principle approval upon satisfying the requirements as set out 
in (a) hereof and after having obtained in-principle approval may thereafter apply for 
final	approval	upon	satisfying	the	requirements	as	set	out	in	(b)	hereof:
 ( a)  in order to obtain in-principle approval an applicant shall submit to the commission:
 (i) a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided on 
the website of the commission;
 (ii) documents to establish the source of funding to establish the exchange;
 (iii) documents outlining the business model to carry on the functions of the 
Exchange	including	financial	feasibility;
 (iv) documents outlining the structures, systems and controls in place which 
will enable it to differentiate and segregate its commercial interests from its 
regulatory responsibilities;
 (v) documents outlining the governance structure of the exchange;
 (vi) documents outlining the procedure in relation to the admission of trading 
Participants to the exchange;
 (vii) a declaration by the  applicant as per schedule I of these rules;
 (viii) a copy of the draft rules of the applicant in conformity with the requirements 
set out in section 26 of the sec Act;
 (ix) a copy of the internal compliance manual as set out in schedule IV of these rules;
 (x) documentation in support of measures taken to acquire information systems 
as stated in rule 15 of these rules;
 (xi) documentation in support of steps taken to recruit adequate human resources 
as stated in rule 33 of these rules to effectively discharge the obligations in 
keeping	with	the	identified	organizational	structure	of	the	applicant;
 (xii) any other requirements and/or information that the commission may require 
considering particular circumstances; and
	 (xiii)	 the	 processing	fee	specified	by	way	of	regulations	made	by	the	Minister	from	
time to time.
 (b)		within	 six	(6)	months	of	obtaining	in-principle	approval,	the	applicant	shall	fulfill	the	
following requirements and submit the  following documents as proof thereof in order 
to	obtain	final approval:

<!-- page 4 -->

4A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
	 (i)	 confirmation	from	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	of	the	Exchange	that	the	
applicant has met the requirements as spelt out in rule 9 (a) and (b) of these rules;
	 (ii)	 a	confirmation	from	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	of	the	Exchange	of	
compliance with the requirement on the minimum number of trading Participants 
as stipulated in rule 25 of these rules;
	 (iii)	 declarations	by	Key	Management	Persons	relating	to	their	fitness	and	propriety	
in terms of the Fitness and Propriety of  a Key management Person of a market 
Institution as contained in schedule II of these rules. such declaration shall be 
in	the	form	of	an	affidavit	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	specimen	provided	in	
schedule III of these rules; 
	 (iv)	 a	confirmation	from	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	of	the	Exchange	of	
the implementation of information systems as stated in rule 15 of these rules;
	 (v)	 a	confirmation	from	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	of	the	Exchange	of	
the	recruitment	of	adequate	human	resources,	particularly	the	officers	stated	in	Rule	
33 of these rules along with their names and designations; and
	 (vi)	 the	annual	licence	fee	specified	by	way	of	regulations	by	the	Minister	from	time	
to time.
  *  however, in the event the colombo stock exchange is desirous of obtaining a 
licence to continue its functions upon the expiration of its present licence granted 
by the commission, the two-stage process mentioned above may be waived by 
the	Commission	provided	that	the	Colombo	Stock	Exchange	satisfies	all	the	
requirements set out in (a) and (b) above at the same time.
 7. As stipulated in section 69 of the sec Act, it shall be the duty of the exchange to 
obtain	the	prior	approval	of	the	Commission	of	any	change	in	particulars	specified	
in an application to be licensed as an exchange.
Licensing fee 8. An exchange shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of regulations made 
by the minister from time to time.          
Minimum financial 
requirements and 
submission of reports
9. An exchange shall:
(a) at all times maintain minimum shareholders’ Funds as determined by the 
commission from time to time;
(b) at all times maintain minimum Liquid Assets as determined by the commission 
from time to time;
(c) inform the commission immediately if shareholders’ Funds and/or Liquid Assets 
fall below the requirement as stipulated in rule 9 (a) and (b) above.
10. An exchange shall provide the information as set out below to the commission:
(a) financial statements prepared quarterly in conformity with the sri Lanka 
Accounting	Standards	signed	by	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	within	
forty	five	(45)	days	from	the	end	of	each	quarter;

<!-- page 5 -->

5A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
(b) a copy of the annual report in conformity with section 73 of the sec Act within 
a	period	of	five	(5)	months	from	the	close	of	each	financial	year;	and
(c) a copy of the compliance report as stated in rule 47 hereof.
11. An exchange shall, within three (3) months from the date of the auditor’s report, 
take	steps	to	rectify	the	deficiencies	if	any,	made	out	in	the	auditor’s	report.
Change in 
shareholding
12. A	change	in	the	shareholding	of	five	per	centum	(5%)	or	more	of	the	total	shareholding	
of an exchange shall be made only upon obtaining prior approval of the commission.
Duties of an Exchange 13. An exchange shall at all times ensure that it complies with duties stipulated under 
section 27 of the sec Act.
Maintenance of 
deposits of  Trading 
Participants
14. Any deposit maintained by the exchange on behalf of trading Participants shall be 
accounted	separately	and	shall	be	disclosed	in	the	financial	statements.
Infrastructure and 
related requirements
15. An exchange shall have all the capabilities to operate and conduct the functions of 
an exchange and shall ensure the availability of the following infrastructure and 
related features in its systems at a minimum:
(a) automated trading system;
(b) market surveillance system;
(c) operational procedures pertaining to management Information systems (mIs);
(d) information dissemination and delivery channels (eg: website, mobile 
applications); 
(e) infrastructure requirements for internal business operations:
(i) internal network;
(ii) accounting system;
(iii) documents archiving and retention system;
(iv) an electronic communication mechanism;
(v) data center (hosted on-site and off-site) and a separate disaster recovery 
facility at a suitable location to be maintained on a real time basis. 
16. An exchange shall ensure that its business applications minimize manual intervention 
in information inputs and outputs at all times and prevent unauthorized changes to 
its databases.
17. Information systems of an exchange shall be subjected to control reviews at least once 
in	every	two	(2)	years	and	the	control	gaps	identified	shall	be	rectified	following	a	
time plan. the scope of testing shall cover business logic, system function, security 
controls and system performance at a minimum. 
18.  An exchange shall have a documented disaster recovery (dr) Plan.
19. A dr test shall be conducted annually in line with the dr plan of the exchange. 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
20. An exchange shall ensure that its hosted servers are subjected to vulnerability 
assessments and penetration tests annually. the issues arising from such tests shall 
be	rectified	according	to	a	time	bound	plan.
21. The	reports	pertaining	to	reviews	and	tests	specified	in	Rules	17,	19	and	20	shall	be	
retained for reference for a minimum period of six (6) years. 
22. An exchange shall maintain a duly updated systems and Procedures manual covering 
the following areas at a minimum, to ensure compliance with these rules:
 
 (a)  the organizational structure of the exchange identifying key functions and persons, 
and their reporting structure;
 (b) operational procedures pertaining to an exchange covering the following areas 
at a minimum:
 (i) operational procedures pertaining to mIs;
 (ii) procedures on staff trades by employees of an exchange; and
 (iii) a procedure to handle client complaints.
 (c) policies, standards and procedures:
 (i) sound and prudent policies, standards and procedures for managing 
technology risks; and
 (ii) review and update policies, standards and procedures regularly, taking into 
consideration the evolving technology and cyber threat landscape.
 (d) management of third party services: 
 (i) an exchange shall assess and manage its exposure to technology risk that 
may	affect	confidentiality,	integrity	and	availability	of	information	technology	
systems and data before entering into a contractual agreement or partnership 
with third parties; and
 (ii) a comprehensive information technology security awareness training program 
shall be established to maintain a high level of awareness among all staff of 
an exchange.
 (e) data and infrastructure security: 
  develop comprehensive data loss prevention policies and adopt measures to detect 
and	prevent	unauthorized	access,	modification,	copying	or	transmission	of	its	
confidential	data.
 (f) user access management: 
  establish a user access management process covering provisions relating to change 
and the revocation of access rights.

<!-- page 7 -->

7A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
  (g) network security:
	 	 deploy	 effective	security	mechanisms	to	protect	information	assets	(eg:	firewall),	
network access controls. 
  
 (h) cyber security:
  establish a security operations center or acquire managed security services (the 
processes,	roles	and	responsibilities	for	security	operations	should	be	defined).
 (i) system backup and recovery: 
  establish a system and data backup and recovery strategy and develop a plan to 
perform regular backups.
 (j) investor education and communication:
  measures to raise awareness among investors on the security best practices and 
terms and conditions that investors should adhere to when using online services. 
 (k) incident management:
  establish an incident management framework with the objective of restoring an 
affected information technology service or system to a secure and stable state as 
quickly as possible to minimize the impact to the business and the investors.
	 23.	 An	Exchange	shall	have	sufficient	and	appropriate	processes	to	ensure	the	functions	
of legal and enforcement, compliance, market surveillance, supervision of trading 
Participants,	information	technology,	finance	and	administration,	internal	audit	and	
risk management are carried out.
Rules of an Exchange 24. An exchange shall in addition to the requirements stipulated in section 26 of the 
sec Act, make provision for the following in its rules:
(a) the conditions on which listing of a particular security may be revoked;
(b) the conditions governing dealings in securities by trading Participants; 
(c) the timely and accurate disclosure of all material information required for investors 
to make informed investment decisions; 
(d) the protection of investors in securities from misrepresentation, misleading 
information, fraud, deceit and other adverse practices in the issue and trading of 
securities and from the abuse by certain persons holding privileged information 
not yet made available to the general public; 
(e) the prohibition of securities market misconduct of any form, including false 
trading, excessive trading, front running, market rigging etc.;
(f) the conduct of securities trading of stock Brokers and stock dealers and the 
manner in which information relating to transactions be maintained; and
(g) ensuring that customers’ funds and securities are segregated from the other 
businesses of the stock Brokers’ or stock dealers’.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Trading Participants of 
an Exchange 
25.  Every	 Exchange	shall	ensure	the	availability	of	a	minimum	of	five	(5)	Trading	
Participants.     
26.    In admitting trading Participants, an exchange shall ensure at a minimum that such 
trading Participants:
(a) are body corporates;
(b) have high business integrity;
(c)	 meet	the	minimum	financial	requirements	 stipulated	 in	the	Rules	of	the	
exchange; and
(d) meet the minimum standards stipulated in relevant rules of the exchange.
27. An exchange shall execute a detailed written agreement between the exchange and 
the trading Participants inclusive of rights and obligations of each party and dispute 
resolution mechanism.
28. every exchange shall ensure that its trading Participants:
(a)  comply with rules applicable to trading Participants; and
(b) initiate timely disciplinary action and take suitable action for any contravention 
or failure to comply with the provisions of the sec Act.
Appointment of 
directors of the 
Exchange
29. the appointment of directors of an exchange shall be in conformity with section 68 
of the sec Act.   
Governance of an 
Exchange
30. An exchange shall have a board charter that inter alia includes a code of conduct 
for the board of directors and demarcate the responsibilities between its board of 
directors and the management.
31. An exchange shall have, at a minimum the following sub-committees of the board 
of directors:
(a) a risk and audit committee;
(b) a remuneration committee;
(c) a nomination committee; and
(d) a rules committee.
human resources of 
an Exchange
32. An	Exchange	shall	have	an	organizational	structure	with	clearly	defined	responsibilities	
and authority for each category of employees. 
33. An	Exchange	shall	have	suitably	qualified	persons	for	the	following	positions:
(a)	 Chief	Executive	Officer	(CEO);
(b)	 Chief	Regulatory	Officer	(CRO);
(c) head of compliance;
(d) head of Legal;
(e) head of Finance; and
(f) head of Information technology.

<!-- page 9 -->

9A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Commission approval 
to engage in other 
businesses
34.  An exchange shall disclose to the commission all other business activities it is 
engaged in at the time of applying for its licence and inform the commission in 
writing prior to engaging in any other business activity after obtaining a licence from 
the commission.
35. An exchange shall not engage in any other business which in the view of the 
Commission	creates	a	conflict	of	interest	unless	prior	written	approval	of	the	
commission is obtained.
36. In the conduct of any such other business activity, an exchange shall ensure that 
proper processes are in place to have a clear demarcation of the different functions 
pertaining to such businesses.
Maintenance of 
records
37. An exchange shall maintain the following records:
(a) c orrespondence with trading Participants;
(b) comprehensive written records pertaining to disciplinary actions initiated against 
trading Participants;
(c) a comprehensive written record of all complaints received/disputes and action 
taken thereon by the exchange; and
(d) any other record the commission requires the exchange to maintain from time 
to time.
38.  All of the above records shall be retained by the exchange for a period of six (6) 
years.
39.   An	Exchange	shall	ensure	confidentiality	of	all	information	relating	to	the	Trading	
Participants unless such disclosure is required by law.
Keeping of books and 
furnishing of returns
40. An exchange shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books as 
will	truly	reflect	the	transactions	and	financial	position	of	its	business	and	enable	
the	preparation	of	a	true	and	fair	income	statement	and	a	statement	of	financial	
position in keeping with the sri Lanka Accounting standards adopted by the 
Institute of chartered Accountants of sri Lanka;
(b) maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books in 
such manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c) retain such accounting records or other books for a period of not less than six (6) 
years.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Duty to furnish 
information and 
co-operate with 
auditors appointed by 
the Commission
41.  Where the commission having considered that it is in the interest of the exchange 
or those of its trading Participants, appoints an independent auditor or such other 
person or a body of persons to examine, audit and report either generally or in relation 
to any particular matter, it shall be the duty of such exchange:
(a) to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the exchange 
relating to its business;
(b) to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by the 
exchange relating to its business;
(c) to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of obtaining; 
and
(d) to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or independent 
auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any material particulars.
42.   An exchange shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property or books relating 
to the business of the exchange which are in its possession or under its control with 
the intention of defeating, preventing, delaying or obstructing the carrying out of 
any examination.
Submission of 
information to 
the
Commission
43.   An exchange shall furnish such returns and provide such information relating to its 
business as the commission may require from time to time.
 44. the commission may determine that any information required herein shall be 
submitted within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form as the 
commission may specify and the exchange shall comply with such requirements.
Compliance manual 45.  An exchange shall have an internal compliance manual applicable to its directors 
and employees which shall include amongst others adequate compliance procedures 
and practices as set out in schedule IV of these rules.
Trading by employees 46.  In the event of trading by employees of an exchange, order instructions pertaining 
to such trades shall not be forwarded to a stock Broker unless the order is authorized 
in	writing	by	the	chief	executive	officer	or	the	compliance	officer	of	the	Exchange.
Regulatory compliance 
and internal controls
47. The	compliance	officer	on	behalf	of	the	Exchange	shall	make	a	quarterly	compliance	
report	which	shall	include	amongst	others	the	contents	specified	in	Schedule	V	of	
these rules approved by the board of directors and signed by the chief executive 
officer	and	a	director	confirming	compliance	with	the	provisions	of	the	SEC	Act,	the	
criteria set out herein, any other rules or directives issued by the commission from 
time to time and the Financial transaction reporting Act, No. 06 of 2006  where 
applicable and forward the same to the commission, before the twentieth (20
th) day 
of the following month.

<!-- page 11 -->

11A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
however, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance 
officer	shall	immediately	report	such	matter	to	the	board	of	directors	for	rectification	
and inform the commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) days from the date 
on which the board of directors were informed together with the steps that have been 
taken by the board of directors to rectify such non-compliance.
48. An exchange shall have a fair and transparent complaint handling procedure to 
ensure the best interest of the trading Participants and the public and shall maintain 
procedures to ensure that complaints received in relation to the conduct of trading 
Participants are handled in a timely and effective manner.
49. An exchange shall adhere to the Know your client (Kyc) and due diligence 
procedures	specified	by	the	Financial	Intelligence	Unit	(FIU)	of	the	Central	Bank	
of sri Lanka from time to time.
Notification on the 
happening of certain 
events
50. Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec Act, in the 
event any one or more of the following events occur, an exchange shall forthwith 
provide written notice to the commission:
(a) the exchange is in the course of being wound up or otherwise dissolved whether 
within or outside sri Lanka or where a receiver, liquidator or an equivalent 
person has been appointed in respect of any property of the exchange;
(b) the exchange is unable to carry its functions of an exchange;
(c) the exchange has failed to comply with the provisions of the sec Act, rules 
relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key management Person of a market 
Institution	and	the	Rules	specified	herein	or	any	other	directive	issued	by	the	
commission from time to time;
(d) any information or document furnished to the commission is false or misleading 
or there is any change in any information contained in a document furnished to 
the commission;
(e) any execution against the exchange in respect of a judgment debt has been 
returned	unsatisfied	in	whole	or	in	part;
(f) the exchange whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered into a compromise 
or scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a compromise or scheme of 
arrangement;
(g) a Key management Person has been convicted of any offence involving fraud 
or dishonesty or a violation of securities law within or outside of sri Lanka; 
and/or
(h) a Key management Person of the exchange becomes an undischarged bankrupt.
Cancellation of a 
licence
51. the cancellation of a licence granted to an exchange shall be governed by the 
provisions contained in sections 28 and 29 of the sec Act.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Closure of an 
Exchange 
52. the closure of an exchange by the commission in an emergency shall be as stipulated 
in section 30 of the sec Act.
Commencement of 
operations
53. In the event an exchange fails to commence the business within six (6) months after 
the issue of the licence, then the licence will cease to be valid.
Licence of an  
Exchange deemed 
to be revoked
54. A licence of an exchange shall be deemed to be revoked if the company to whom a 
licence has been granted is wound up or otherwise dissolved.
SChEDuLE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to:      chairman    
           securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka
           Level 28 & 29, east tower
           World trade centre
           echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka 
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (type of market institution), we (name of the applicant entity) being 
duly	incorporated	and	having	our	registered	office/principal	place	of	business	at….................(address)….............	
hereby undertake and agree:
1. to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the 
commission; and
2. to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or 
replaced from time to time.
We	further	declare	that	no	finding	has	been	made	against	the	applicant	entity	by	a	court	of	law	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	for	
the commission of any criminal offence/capital market offence or any other act which involves fraud, deceit, dishonesty, 
misrepresentation,	breach	of	contract	or	breach	of	fiduciary	duty	and	that	the	statements	made	and	information	provided	
with the application are true and accurate to the best of our knowledge.
Given	under	the	common	seal	of	the	entity	on	this….........day	of.........….in	the	presence	of
………………….
(Name)
director
………………………..
(Name) 
director/secretary
or,
Signed	by	the	duly	authorized	signatories	of	the	entity	on	this…...........day	of…..........
…………………………
(Name) Authorized signatory
Note:	Please	attach	a	certified	true	copy	of	the	board	resolution/Power	of	Attorney	in	proof	of	such	authority.

<!-- page 13 -->

13A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Institution
General interpretation 1.	 The	words	and	terms	defined	in	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	
of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have 
the same meaning assigned to them in the said Act.
“commission” means the s ecurities and exchange  commission of  
sri Lanka established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall	include	alternate	directors,	a	chief	executive	officer,	compliance	officer	
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Market	Institution”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	
188 of the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
Act, No. 19 of 2021.
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission 
2. No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve 
as a Key management Person of a market Institution unless that individual 
is	a	fit	and	proper	person	to	hold	such	office	in	such	entity	as	morefully	
described in these rules. 
3. An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who 
intends to continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person, 
shall	submit	an	affidavit	to	the	Commission	affirming	that	such	person	is	not	
subject	to	any	of	the	infirmities	morefully	described	in	these	Rules	prior	to	
such individual being appointed and at the time a market Institution seeks 
a licence.
4.	 The	information	contained	in	the	affidavit	shall	not	be	misleading	or	vague	
and shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5. Adherence to these rules shall be a continuous requirement and the 
compliance	officer	of	a	Market	Institution	shall	immediately	inform	the	
board of directors of any matter that may disqualify the appointment or 
the	continuation	in	office	of	a	Key	Management	Person	and	the	board	of	
directors shall immediately notify the commission the decision made in 
respect of such matter. 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
honesty, integrity and 
reputation
6. the Key management Person shall not:
(a) be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of 
law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b) be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court 
of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market 
offence or against whom an offence has been compounded in terms of 
the sec Act during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding 
the date of the application;
(c) have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has 
been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or 
abroad for the commission of any criminal offence or capital market 
offence having proved to have been committed with the knowledge or 
involvement or negligence attributable to such person;
(d) be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding 
the date of the application;
(e) be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other 
organization whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the 
commission for violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules 
or regulations made thereunder;
(f) be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)	 be	a	person	against	whom	a	finding	has	been	made	by	the	Commission	
or any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri 
Lanka or abroad that such individual has committed any act which 
involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty;
(h)	 be	a	person	who	has	been	disqualified	from	acting	as	a	director	of	
a company, or has been dismissed or requested to resign from any 
position	or	office	due	to	mismanagement	of	funds	or	the	commission	
of	financial	fraud	by	the	Commission,	any	other	regulatory	body	or	
professional body;
(i) be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the 
commission and/or any other regulatory/professional body in sri Lanka 
or elsewhere is presently pending for the commission of suspected 
capital market offences or any matter that involves fraud, deceit or 
dishonesty; and/or
(j) be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the 
protection	of	the	members	of	the	public	against	financial	loss	due	to	
dishonesty or malpractice of such person.

<!-- page 15 -->

15A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Financial soundness  7. the Key management Person shall not:
(a) have proceedings instituted to be declared  bankrupt or have been 
declared as bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
(b) have been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part; and/or
(c)	 have	been	a	person	of	a	company	in	a	position	that	exercises	significant	
influence	in	a	company	that:
(i) has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or 
abroad that remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
(ii) has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition 
with	its	creditors,	filed	for	bankruptcy,	been	declared		bankrupt,	
had assets sequestered,  involved in winding-up proceedings 
ordered by a court of law or been involved in proceedings relating 
to any of the foregoing.
Competence and capability 8. the Key management Person shall:
(a) not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka 
or abroad to be of unsound mind; 
(b)	 possess	the	qualifications	required	to	provide	the	services	for	which	a	
licence has been sought/obtained from the commission;
(c)	 have	satisfied	the	relevant	training	and	competence	requirements	in	
relation to the regulated function the person performs or intends to 
perform;
(d)	 demonstrate	by	experience	that	the	chief	executive	officer,	the	chief	
regulatory	officer	and	the	compliance	officer	are	suitable	or	will	be	
suitable if approved to perform the regulated functions;
(e) possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function; and/or
(f) have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members	of	the	public	against	financial	loss	due	to	incompetence	of	
such person.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Institution
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of  NIc No./Passport No. (In the 
case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/hindu/muslim 
do	hereby	solemnly,	sincerely	and	truly	declare	and	affirm]	/	[Christian/	Catholic	make	oath	and	swear	as	follows]:
1.	 I	am	the	[affirmant/deponent]	above	named.
2.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	a	____________	[Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of the 
applicant entity].
3.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	possess	the	following	academic	and/or	professional	qualification(s)	to	perform	the	prescribed	
duties which I am engaged in:
…………………………………………
…………………………………………
…………………………………………
4.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	found	guilty/held	responsible	by	a	court	of	law	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	for	the	
commission of any criminal offence/capital market offence. 
5.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	Key	Management	Person	of	a	body	corporate	which	has	been	found	guilty/held	
responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/capital market 
offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable to me.
6.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	not	a	person	against	whom	an	offence	has	been	compounded	in	terms	of	the	Securities	and	
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 (sec Act) nor an administrative sanction has been imposed 
by	the	Commission	during	a	period	of	three	(3)	years	immediately	preceding	the	date	of	this	affidavit.	
7.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	Key	Management	Person	of	a	company,	partnership	or	other	organization	whose	
licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, any rules 
or regulations made thereunder.
8.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	person	who	has	been	censured,	disciplined,	suspended	or	refused	membership	
or registration by the commission or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period of three 
(3)	years	immediately	preceding	the	date	of	this	affidavit.
9.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	person	who	has	been	disqualified	by	the	Commission	or	any	other	regulatory	
body or professional body from serving as a director of a company, or has been dismissed or requested to resign 
from	any	position	or	office	due	to	mismanagement	of	funds	or	the	commission	of	a	financial	fraud.	
10.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	not	a	person	against	whom	an	inquiry	and/or	an	investigation	by	the	Commission	or	any	other	
regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for the commission 
of	suspected	capital	market	offences	or	any	act	which	involves	fraud,	deceit	or	dishonesty	or	that	a	finding	has	been	
made by the commission or any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka or abroad 
that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.
11.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	contravened	any	written	law	enacted	for	the	protection	of	the	members	of	the	public	
against	financial	loss	by	dishonesty,	incompetence	or	malpractice.

<!-- page 17 -->

17A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
12.	 I	affirm/state	that	no	proceedings	have	been	instituted	in	a	court	of	law	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	requesting	that	I	be	
declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	subject	to	any	judgment	debt	or	award	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	that	remains	unpaid	
in whole or in part.
14.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	not	a	person/a	director	of	a	company	or	a	shareholder	in	a	position	that		exercises	significant	
influence	in	a	company	that:
(a) has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or 
in part; or 
(b)	 has	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	made	any	arrangements	in	composition	with	its	creditors,	filed	for	bankruptcy,	
been declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court 
of law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	declared	as	a	person	of	unsound	mind	by	a	court	of	competent	jurisdiction	in	Sri	
Lanka or abroad. 
16.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	the	relevant	training,	competence	and	expertise	in	the	nature	of	the	business	being	conducted	
by the entity. 
17.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	the	suitable	experience	to	perform	the	regulated	function.
18.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	adequate	time	to	perform	the	regulated	functions	and	meet	the	responsibilities	associated	
with such function of the entity.
19.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	the	technical	knowledge	and	ability	to	perform	the	prescribed	duties	which	I	am	engaged	
in,	especially	recognised	professional	qualifications	and	membership	of	relevant	professional	institutions.
20.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	contravened	any	written	law	enacted	for	the	protection	of	the	members	of	the	public	
against	financial	loss	due	to	my	incompetence.
21.	 I	affirm/state	that	all	of	the	above	are	true	and	accurate	to	the	best	of	my	knowledge.
the averments contained herein were 
read	over	to	the	[affirmant/deponent]	
who having understood the contents 
hereof and having accepted same as 
true,
[affirmed/	swore]	to	and	placed	his/her	
signature	at	………….	on	
this	……………	day		of
	…………………
Affix	stamps	as	
applicable
Before me
 JustIce oF the PeAce/commIssIoNer For oAths.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE IV
Minimum Requirements of an Internal Compliance Manual
	 1.	 Conflicts	of	Interest:
	 	 (a)	 	mechanism	to	monitor	and	identify	conflicts	of	interest	situations	and	steps	to	address	such	situations	in	a	timely	
manner;
  (b) procedures to prevent or control the exchange of information between persons engaged in activities that give 
rise	to	a	risk	of	a	conflict	of	interest;
	 	 (c)	 procedures	for	the	prevention	or	limitation	of	any	person	from	exercising	undue	influence	over	the	manner	in	
which a relevant person carries out services or activities;
	 	 (d)	measures	 to	ensure	that	it	does	not	carry	out	any	activities,	which	could	cause	a	conflict	of	interest	with	its	
exchange functions;
  (e) a transparent and non-discriminatory criteria for the admission of trading Participants; 
  (f)  a procedure to ensure that the exchange does not engage in transactions with related parties in a manner that 
would grant such parties more favorable treatment than that accorded to third parties in the ordinary course of 
business; 
  (g) procedures to prevent trading by the employees of the exchange during such period the exchange holds material 
non-public information pertaining to listed public companies; and
  (h) measures ensuring that the entity acts in the best interest of the public.
 
 2. corporate Governance:
  (a) composition of the board of directors, availability of its subcommittees in accordance with these rules;  
  (b) a code of conduct and ethics, good business practices and the requirement to follow just and fair principles 
in the conduct of its business;
  (c) requirement to comply with the sec Act, applicable rules and regulations introduced by the commission in 
respect of exchanges;
	 	 (d)	requirement	to	implement	sound	financial	and	business	reporting	structure;	
  (e) requirement to segregate assets of the trading Participants from those of the exchange; and 
  (f)  requirement to ensure compliance with Fitness and Proprietary of a Key management Person of a market 
Institution issued by the commission from time to time.
 3. Internal controls and risk management:
  (a) the availability of sound internal controls and risk management policies and processes;
  (b) the availability of internal audit systems; 
	 	 (c)	 regular	review	of	the	adequacy	and	effectiveness	of	financial,	operational	and	compliance	controls;	and
  (d) regular review of the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management policies and procedures.

<!-- page 19 -->

19A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE V
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
1.	 Confirmation	that	the	business	has	been	conducted	in	conformity	with	the:	
(a) securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;
(b) rules issued by the commission;
(c) rules of an exchange pertaining to an exchange; and
(d) rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including 
rules and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
2. If not:
(a) provide information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
(b) action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
(c) the outcome. 
3. Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
If so:
(a) the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
(b) outcomes if any. 
4. monitoring of network availability and performance with:
(a) details pertaining to instances in which systems failure/malfunctions were detected in relation to the 
Automated trading system during the quarter; and
(b)	 details	pertaining	to	the	security	threats	to	the	network	operating	systems	identified	during	the	quarter.
Any instances as referred to in items 4. (a) and (b) above and the remedial action taken shall be immediately                
brought to the attention of the commission.
eoG 03-0882/1

<!-- page 20 -->

20A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
RuLES APPLICAbLE TO A CLEARING hOuSE 
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021.
 Viraj Dayaratne Pc
 chairman
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka.
colombo
15
th march, 2022.
Rules
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to an exchange.
General interpretation 1.	 The	words	and	terms	defined	in	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	of	
sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the 
same meaning assigned to it in the said Act:
“Central	Counterparty”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	32	
of the sec Act;
“Clearing	House”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	of	
the sec Act;
“Clearing	Member”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	of	
the sec Act;
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means the directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall	include	alternate	directors,	a	chief	executive	officer,	compliance	officer	 	
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Liquid Assets” means unencumbered cash or investments which can be readily 
converted to cash such as bank/call deposits, re-purchase agreements with 
maturity of less than three (3) months, commercial papers which are endorsed 
or guaranteed by a licensed commercial bank or licensed specialized bank 
with a term to maturity of less than three (3) months and government issued 
securities with a term to maturity of one (1) year or less or any other form of 
instruments as determined by the commission;
“Market	Charge”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	32	of	the	
sec Act;
	“Market	Contract”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	32	of	
the sec Act;

<!-- page 21 -->

21A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
 “sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021;
“shareholders’ Funds” means the amount of equity of the company which 
belongs to the shareholders of the company.
2. the rules set out herein shall apply to a clearing house licensed under the sec 
Act.
3. every clearing house shall comply with:
(a) the rules set out herein and any amendments thereto;
(b) provisions of the sec Act;
(c) directives issued from time to time by the commission; and
(d) rules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key 
management Person of a market Institution.
Requirement for a licence 4.	 No	entity	shall	engage	in	the	function	of	a	Clearing	House	without	having	first	
obtained a licence from the commission.
Procedure to obtain a licence 5. the grant of a licence shall be a two (2) stage process. An applicant may in the 
first	instance	apply	for	in-principle	approval	upon	satisfying	the	requirements	as	
set out in (a) hereof and after having obtained in-principle approval may thereafter 
apply	for	final	approval	upon	satisfying	the	requirements	as	set	out	in	(b)	hereof:
(a) In order to obtain in-principle approval an applicant shall submit to the 
commission:
 (i) a duly completed application form according to the specimen 
provided on the website of the commission;
 (ii) documents to establish the source of funding to establish the clearing 
house;
 (iii) documents outlining the business model to carry on the functions 
of	the	Clearing	House	including	financial	feasibility;		
 (iv) documents outlining the governance structure of the clearing house;
 (v) documents outlining the procedure in relation to the admission of 
clearing members to the clearing house;
 (vi) documents outlining the details of settlement guarantee fund of the 
clearing house; 
 (vii) a declaration by the applicant as per schedule I of these rules;
 (viii) a copy of the internal compliance manual as set out in schedule IV 
of these rules ;
 (ix) a copy of the draft rules of the applicant in conformity with the 
requirements set out in section 36 of the sec Act;
Applicability

<!-- page 22 -->

22A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
 (x) documentation in support of measures taken to acquire infrastructure 
and	meet	related	requirements	as	specified	in	Rule	16;
 (xi) documentation in support of steps taken to recruit adequate human 
resources as stated in rule 34 to effectively discharge the obligations 
in	keeping	with	the	identified	organizational	structure	of	the	applicant;
 (xii) any other requirements and/or information that the commission may 
require considering particular circumstances; and 
	 (xiii)	 the	 processing	fee	specified	by	way	of	regulations	made	by	the	Minister	
from time to time.
 (b)  Within six (6) months of obtaining in-principle approval, the applicant shall 
fulfill	the	following	requirements	and	submit	the	following	documents	as	proof	
thereof	in	order	to	obtain	final	approval:
	 (i)	 a	 confirmation	from	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	of	the	
clearing house that the applicant has met the requirements as spelt out 
in rule 8 (a) and (b) of these rules;
	 (ii)	 a	 confirmation	from	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	of	the	
clearing house of compliance with the requirement on the minimum 
number of clearing members as stipulated in rule 26 of these rules; 
	 (iii)	 declarations	 by	Key	Management	Persons	relating	to	their	fitness	and	
propriety in terms of the Fitness and Propriety of a Key management 
Person of a market Institution as contained in schedule II of these 
Rules.	Such	declaration	shall	be	in	the	form	of	an	affidavit	prepared	in	
accordance with the specimen provided in schedule III of these rules;
	 (iv)	 a	 confirmation	from	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	of	the	
clearing house of the implementation of an information system as 
stated in rule 16 in these rules;
	 (v)	 a	 confirmation	from	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	of	the	
clearing house of the recruitment of adequate human resources, 
particularly	the	officers	stated	in	Rule	34	along	with	their	names	and	
designations; and
	 (vi)	 the	 annual	licence	fee	specified	by	way	of	regulations	made	by	the	
minister from time to time.
 * however, in the event the central depository systems (Pvt) Limited is 
desirous of obtaining a licence to continue its function as a clearing house 
upon expiration of its present licence granted by the commission, the two-
stage process mentioned above may be waived by the commission provided 
that	the	Central	Depository	Systems	(Pvt)	Limited	satisfies	all	requirements	
set out in (a) and (b) above at the same time.
 6. As stipulated in section 69 of the sec Act, it shall be the duty of the clearing 
house to obtain the prior approval of the commission of any change in particulars 
specified	in	an	application	to be licensed as a clearing house.
Licensing fee 7. A clearing house shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of regulations 
made by the minister from time to time under the sec Act.

<!-- page 23 -->

23A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Minimum financial 
requirements and submission 
of reports
8. A clearing house shall:
(a) at all times maintain minimum shareholders’ Funds as determined by the 
commission from time to time;
(b) at all times maintain minimum Liquid Assets as determined by the 
commission from time to time;
(c) inform the commission immediately if shareholders’ Funds and/or Liquid 
Assets fall below the requirement as stipulated in rule 8 (a) and (b) above.
9. A clearing house shall provide the information as set out below to the 
commission:
(a)	 financial	statements	prepared	quarterly	in	conformity	with	the	Sri	Lanka	
Accounting	Standards	signed	by	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	
within	forty	five	(45)	days	from	the	end	of	each	quarter;
(b) a copy of the annual report in conformity with section 73 of the sec Act 
within	a	period	of	five	(5)	months	from	the	close	of	each	financial	year;	and
(c) a copy of the compliance report as stated in rule 47 hereof.
10. A clearing house shall, within three (3) months from the date of the auditor’s 
report,	take	steps	to	rectify	the	deficiencies	if	any,	made	out	in	the	auditor’s	report,	
in so far as they relate  to the activity of clearing functions.
Change in shareholding 11.	 A	change	in	the	shareholding	of	five	per	centum	(5%)	or	more	of	the	total	
shareholding of a clearing house shall be made only upon obtaining prior 
approval of the commission.
Duties of a Clearing house 12. A clearing house shall at all times ensure that it complies with the duties 
stipulated under section 37 of the sec Act. 
Maintenance of guarantees 
and assets of Clearing 
Members
13. A clearing house shall segregate the guarantees and the assets of clearing members 
from the assets of the licensed clearing house.
14. A clearing house shall not use the guarantees or assets taken from its clearing 
members for purposes other than those for which they were deposited.
15. Any deposit maintained by the clearing house on behalf of clearing members 
shall	be	accounted	separately	and	shall	be	disclosed	in	the	financial	statements.
Infrastructure and related 
requirements
16. A clearing house shall have all the capabilities to operate and conduct the functions 
of a clearing house and shall ensure the availability of the following infrastructure 
and related features in its systems at a minimum: 
(a) clearing system;
(b) settlement gateway connected to the depository system;
(c) infrastructure requirements for internal business operations:
(i) internal network;
(ii) accounting system;
(iii) document archiving and retention system;
(iv) an electronic communication mechanism; 
(v) data center (hosted on-site or off-site) and a separate disaster 
recovery facility at a suitable location. 

<!-- page 24 -->

24A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
17. A clearing house shall ensure that its business applications minimize manual 
intervention in information inputs and outputs where possible and prevent 
unauthorized changes to its databases.
18. Information systems of a clearing house shall be subjected to control reviews at 
least	once	in	every	two	(2)	years	and	the	control	gaps	identified	shall	be	rectified	
following a time plan. the scope of testing should cover business logic, system 
function, security controls and system performance at a minimum.
19. A clearing house shall have a documented disaster recovery (dr) Plan.
20. A dr test shall be conducted annually in line with the dr plan of the clearing 
house. 
21. A clearing house shall ensure that its hosted servers are subjected to vulnerability 
assessments and penetration tests annually. the issues arising from such tests shall 
be	rectified	according	to	a	time	bound	plan.
22.	 The	reports	pertaining	to	reviews	and	tests	specified	in	Rules	18,	20	and	21	shall	
be retained for reference for a minimum period of six (6) years. 
23. A clearing house shall maintain a duly updated systems and Procedures manual 
covering the following areas, to ensure compliance with these rules:
 (a)  the organizational structure of the clearing house identifying key functions 
and persons and their reporting structure;
 (b)   operational procedures pertaining to a clearing house covering the following 
areas at a minimum:
 (i)   operational procedures pertaining to management Information systems 
(mIs);
 (ii) procedures on staff trades by employees of the clearing house; and
 (iii) a procedure to handle complaints. 
 (c) policies, standards and procedures:
 (i) sound and prudent policies, standards and procedures for managing 
technology risks; and
 (ii) review and update policies, standards and procedures regularly,  taking into 
consideration the evolving technology and cyber threat landscape.
 (d) management of third-party services:
 (i) a clearing house should asses and manage its exposure to technology risk 
that	may	affect	confidentiality,	integrity	and	availability	of		information	
technology systems and data before entering into a contractual agreement 
or partnership with third parties; and

<!-- page 25 -->

25A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
   (ii) a comprehensive information technology security awareness training 
program should be established to maintain a high level of awareness 
among all staff of the clearing house. 
 (e) data and infrastructure security:
  develop comprehensive data loss prevention policies and adopt measures to 
detect	and	prevent	unauthorized	access,	modification,	copying	or	transmission	
of	its	confidential	data.
 (f) user access management:
  establish a user access management process covering provisions relating to 
change and the revocation of access rights of information assets.
 (g) network security:
  deploy effective security mechanisms to protect information assets  
(eg:	firewall),	network	access	controls.
  (h) cyber security:
  establish a security operations center or acquire managed security services 
(the processes, roles and responsibilities for security operations should be 
defined).
 (i) system backup and recovery:
  establish a system and data backup and recovery strategy and develop a plan 
to perform regular backups.
 (j) investor education and communication:
  measures to raise awareness among investors on the security best practices 
and terms and conditions that investors should adhere to when using online 
services.
 (k) incident management:
  establish an incident management framework with the objective of restoring an 
affected information technology service or system to a secure and stable state 
as quickly as possible to minimize the impact to the business and investors. 
24.	 A	Clearing	House	shall	have	sufficient	and	appropriate	processes	to	ensure	that	
the functions of legal and enforcement, compliance, surveillance, supervision of 
Clearing	Members,	information	technology,	finance	and	administration,	internal	
audit and risk management are carried out.
Rules of a Clearing house 25. A clearing house shall, in addition to the requirements stipulated under section 
36 of the sec Act, make provisions for the following in preparing its rules: 
(a) rules on the application of collateral subject to a market charge in conformity 
with section 50 of the sec Act;
(b) rules on the transfer of securities in settlement in conformity with section 51 
of the sec Act; and
(c) rules on the purchase and sale of securities in conformity with section 52 of 
the sec Act.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Clearing Members of a 
Clearing house
26. every clearing house shall ensure the availability of a minimum of three (3) 
clearing members.   
27. In admitting clearing members, a clearing house shall ensure at a minimum that 
such members:
(a) are body corporates;
(b) have high business integrity;
(c)	 meet	the	minimum	financial	requirements	stipulated	in	the	relevant	rules	of	
the clearing house; and
(d) meet the minimum standards stipulated in the relevant rules of the clearing 
house.
28. A clearing house shall execute a detailed written agreement executed between 
the clearing house and the clearing members inclusive of rights and obligations 
of each party and a dispute resolution mechanism. 
29.  every clearing house shall ensure that its clearing members:
(a) comply with the rules applicable to clearing members;
(b) initiate timely disciplinary action and take suitable action for any contravention 
or failure to comply with the provisions of the sec Act.
Appointment of directors of 
the Clearing house
30. the appointment of directors of a clearing house shall be in conformity with 
section 68 of the sec Act.  
Governance of a Clearing 
house
31. A clearing house shall have a board charter that inter alia includes a code of 
conduct for the board of directors and demarcate the responsibilities between its 
board of directors and management.
32. A clearing house shall have, at a minimum the following sub-committees of the 
board of directors:
(a) a risk and audit committee;
(b) a remuneration committee;
(c) a nomination committee;
(d) a rules committee; and
(e) a dispute resolution committee.
human resources of a 
Clearing house
33.	 A	Clearing	House	shall	have	an	organizational	structure	with	clearly	defined	
responsibilities and authority for each category of employees.
34.	 A	Clearing	House	shall	have	suitably	qualified	persons	for	the	following	positions:	
(a)	 Chief	Executive	Officer	(CEO);
(b)	 Chief	Regulatory	Officer	(CRO);
(c) head of compliance;
(d) head of Legal;
(e) head of Finance; and 
(f) head of Information technology. 

<!-- page 27 -->

27A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Commission approval to 
engage in other businesses
35. A clearing house shall disclose to the commission all other business activities it 
is engaged in at the time of applying for its licence and inform the commission in 
writing prior to engaging in any other business activity after obtaining a licence 
from the commission.
36. A clearing house shall not engage in any other business which in the view of 
the	Commission	creates	a	conflict	of	interest	unless	prior	written	approval	of	the	
commission is obtained.
37. In the conduct of any such other business activity, a clearing house shall ensure 
that proper processes are in place to have a clear demarcation of the different 
functions pertaining to such businesses.
Maintenance of records 38. A clearing house shall maintain the following records:
(a) correspondence with clearing members;
(b) comprehensive written records pertaining to disciplinary actions initiated 
against clearing members;
(c) a comprehensive written record of all complaints received/disputes and action 
taken thereon by the clearing house; and
(d) any other record the commission requires the clearing house to maintain from 
time to time.
39. All of the above records shall be retained by the clearing house for a period of 
six (6) years.
40.	 A	Clearing	House	shall	ensure	confidentiality	of	all	information	relating	to	the	
clearing members unless such disclosure is required by law.
Keeping of books and 
furnishing of returns
41. A clearing house shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books 
as	will	truly	reflect	the	transactions	and	financial	position	of	its	business	and	
enable the preparation of a true and fair income statement and a statement 
of	financial	position	in	keeping	with	the	Sri	Lanka	Accounting	Standards	
adopted by the Institute of chartered Accountants of sri Lanka;
(b) maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books 
in such manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c) retain such accounting records or other books for a period of not less than six 
(6) years.

<!-- page 28 -->

28A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Duty to furnish information 
and co-orporate with 
auditors appointed by the 
Commission
42. Where the commission having considered that it is in the interest of the clearing 
house or those of its clearing members, appoints an independent auditor or such 
other person or a body of persons to examine, audit and report either generally or 
in relation to any particular matter, it shall be the duty of such clearing house:
(a) to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the clearing 
house relating to its business;
(b) to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by 
the clearing house relating to its business;
(c) to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of 
obtaining; and
(d) to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or 
independent auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any 
material particulars.
43. A clearing house shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property or books 
relating to the business of the clearing house which are in its possession or under 
its control with the intention of defeating, preventing, delaying or obstructing the 
carrying out of any examination.
Submission of information to 
the Commission
44. A clearing house shall furnish such returns and provide such information relating 
to its business as the commission may require from time to time.
45. the commission may determine that any information required herein shall be 
submitted within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form 
as the commission may specify and the clearing house shall comply with such 
requirements.
Compliance manual 46. A clearing house shall have an internal compliance manual applicable to its 
directors and employees which shall include amongst others adequate compliance 
procedures and practices as set out in schedule IV of these rules.
Regulatory compliance and 
internal controls
47.	 The	compliance	officer	on	behalf	of	the	Clearing	House	shall	make	a	quarterly	
compliance	report	which	shall	include	amongst	others	the	contents	specified	in	
schedule V of these rules approved by the board of directors and signed by the 
chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	confirming	compliance	with	the	provisions	
of the sec Act, the criteria set out herein, any other rules or directives issued by 
the commission from time to time and the Financial transactions reporting Act, 
No. 06 of 2006 where applicable and forward the same to the commission, before 
the twentieth (20
th) day of the following month.
          however, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance 
officer	shall	immediately	report	such	matter	to	the	board	of	directors	for	rectification	
and inform the commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) days from the 
date on which the board of directors were informed together with the steps that 
have been taken by the board of directors to rectify such non-compliance.
48. A clearing house shall have a fair and transparent complaint handling procedure to 
ensure the best interest of the clearing members and the public and shall maintain 
procedures to ensure that complaints received in relation to the conduct of clearing 
members are handled in a timely and effective manner.

<!-- page 29 -->

29A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
49. A clearing house shall adhere to the Know your client (Kyc) and due diligence 
procedures	specified	by	the	Financial	Intelligence	Unit	(FIU)	of	the	Central	Bank	
of sri Lanka from time to time.
Trading by employees 50. In the event of trading by employees of a clearing h ouse, order instructions 
pertaining to such trades shall not be forwarded to a stock Broker unless the order 
is	authorised	in	writing	by	the	chief	executive	officer	or	the	compliance	officer	of	
a clearing house. 
Notification on the happening 
of certain events
51. Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec Act, in 
the event any one or more of the following events occur, a clearing house shall 
forthwith provide written notice to the commission:
 (a) the clearing house is in the course of being wound up or otherwise dissolved 
whether within or outside sri Lanka or where a receiver, liquidator or an 
equivalent person has been appointed in respect of any property of the 
clearing house;
 (b) the clearing house is unable to carry on its functions as a clearing house;
 (c) the clearing house has failed to comply with the provisions of the sec 
Act, rules relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key management Person 
of	a	Market	Institution	and	the	Rules	specified	herein	or	any	other	directive	
issued by the commission from time to time;
 (d) any information or document furnished to the commisison is false or 
misleading or there is any change in any information contained in a document 
furnished to the commission; 
 (e) any execution against the clearing house in respect of a judgment debt has 
been	returned	unsatisfied	in	whole	or	in	part;
 (f) the clearing house whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered into a 
compromise or scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a compromise 
or scheme of arrangement;
 (g) a Key management Person  has been  convicted of any offence involving 
fraud or dishonesty or a violation of securities law within or outside of sri 
Lanka; and/or
 (h) a Key management Person of the clearing house becomes an undischarged 
bankrupt.
Cancellation of a licence 52. the cancellation of a licence granted to a clearing house shall be governed by the 
provisions contained in section 39 of the sec Act.
Commencement of 
operations
53. In the event a clearing house fails to commence the business  within six (6) months 
after the issue of the licence, then the licence will cease to be valid.
Licence of a Clearing house 
deemed to be revoked
54. A licence of a clearing house shall be deemed to be revoked if the company to 
whom a licence has been granted is wound up or otherwise dissolved.

<!-- page 30 -->

30A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to:  chairman    
       securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka
       Level 28 & 29, east tower
 World trade center
 echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka.
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (type of market institution), we (name of the applicant entity) being duly 
incorporated	and	having	our	registered	office/principal	place	of	business	at.............…(address)…...........hereby	undertake	
and agree:
 1. to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the commission; 
and
 2. to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or replaced 
from time to time.
We	further	declare	that	no	finding	has	been	made	against	the	applicant	entity	by	a	court	of	law	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	for	
the commission of any criminal offence/capital market offence or any other act which involves fraud, deceit, dishonesty, 
misrepresentation,	breach	of	contract	or	breach	of	fiduciary	duty	and	that	the	statements	made	and	information	provided	
along with the application are true and accurate to the best of our knowledge.
Given	under	the	common	seal	of	the	entity	on	this…............day	of…..........in	the	presence	of
……………………….
(Name)
director
………………………..
(Name) 
director/secretary
or,
Signed	by	the	duly	authorized	signatories	of	the	entity	on	this….............day	of…...........
…………………………
(Name) Authorized signatory
Note:	Please	attach	a	certified	true	copy	of	the	board	resolution/Power	of	Attorney	in	proof	of	such	authority.

<!-- page 31 -->

31A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Institution
General interpretation 1.	 The	words	and	terms	defined	in	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	of	Sri	
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act.
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall	include	alternate	directors,	a	chief	executive	officer,	compliance	officer	 	
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Market	Institution”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	of	
the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021.
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission 
2. No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve as a Key 
Management	Person	of	a	Market	Institution	unless	that	individual	is	a	fit	and	proper	
person	to	hold	such	office	in	such	entity	as	morefully	described	in	these	Rules.	
3. An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who intends to 
continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person, shall submit an 
affidavit	to	the	Commission	affirming	that	such	person	is	not	subject	to	any	of	
the	infirmities	morefully	described	in	these	Rules	prior	to	such	individual	being	
appointed and at the time a market Institution seeks a licence.
4.	 The	information	contained	in	the	affidavit	shall	not	be	misleading	or	vague	and	
shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5. Adherence to these rules shall be a continuous requirement and the compliance 
officer	of	a	Market	Institution	shall	immediately	inform	the	board	of	directors	of	
any	matter	that	may	disqualify	the	appointment	or	the	continuation	in	office	of	a	
Key management Person and the board of directors shall immediately notify the 
commission the decision made in respect of such matter. 

<!-- page 32 -->

32A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
honesty, integrity and 
reputation
6. the Key management Person shall not:
(a) be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in 
sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b) be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in 
sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market offence or against 
whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the sec Act during a 
period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the application;
(c) have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has been 
found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the 
commission of any criminal offence or capital market offence having proved 
to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence 
attributable to such person;
(d) be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the 
date of the application;
(e) be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other organization 
whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for 
violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules or regulations made 
thereunder;
(f) be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)	 be	a	person	against	whom	a	finding	has	been	made	by	the	Commission	or	
any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka 
or abroad that such individual has committed any act which involves fraud, 
deceit or dishonesty;
(h)	 be	a	person	who	has	been	disqualified	from	acting	as	a	director	of	a	company,	
or	has	been	dismissed	or	requested	to	resign	from	any	position	or	office	due	
to	mismanagement	of	funds	or	the	commission	of	financial	fraud	by	the	
commission, any other regulatory body or professional body;
(i) be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the commission 
and/or any other regulatory/professional body in sri Lanka or elsewhere is 
presently pending for the commission of suspected capital market offences 
or any matter that involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty; and/or
(j) be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the protection 
of	the	members	of	the	public	against	financial	loss	due	to	dishonesty	or	
malpractice of such person.

<!-- page 33 -->

33A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Financial soundness 7.      the Key management Person shall not:
 (a) have proceedings instituted to be declared bankrupt or have been declared 
bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
 (b) have been subject to any judgement debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad 
that remains unpaid in whole or in part;
	 (c)	 have	 been	a	person	of	a	company	in	a	position	that	exercises	significant	
influence	in	a	company	that:
 i. has been subject to any judgement debt or award in sri Lanka 
or abroad that remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
 ii. has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in 
composition with its creditors, filed for bankruptcy, been 
declared  bankrupt, had assets sequestered,  involved in winding-
up proceedings ordered by a court of law or been involved in 
proceedings relating to any of the foregoing.
Competence and capability 8. the Key management Person shall:
 (a) not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka 
or abroad to be of unsound mind; 
	 (b)	 possess	 the	qualifications	required	to	provide	the	services	for	which	a	
licence has been sought/obtained from the commission;
	 (c)	 have 	satisfied	the	relevant	training	and	competence	requirements	in	
relation to the regulated function the person performs or intends to 
perform;
	 (d)	 demonstrate	 by	experience	that	the	chief	executive	officer,	the	chief	
regulatory	officer	and	the	compliance	officer	are	suitable	or	will	be	
suitable if approved to perform the regulated functions;
 (e) possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function; and/or
 (f) have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members	of	the	public	against	financial	loss	due	to	incompetence	of	
such person.

<!-- page 34 -->

34A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market 
Institution
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of NIc No. /Passport No. (In the 
case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/hindu/muslim 
do	hereby	solemnly,	sincerely	and	truly	declare	and	affirm]/[Christian/	Catholic	make	oath	and	swear	as	follows]:
1.	 I	am	the	[affirmant/deponent]	above	named.
2.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	a	____________	[Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of 
the applicant entity].
3.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	possess	the	following	academic	and/or	professional	qualification(s)	to	perform	the	prescribed	
duties which I am engaged in.
---------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------
4.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	found	guilty/held	responsible	by	a	court	of	law	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	for	the	
commission of any criminal offence/capital market offence. 
5.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	Key	Management	Person	of	a	body	corporate	which	has	been	found	guilty/
held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/capital 
market offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable 
to me.
6.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	not	a	person	against	whom	an	offence	has	been	compounded	in	terms	of	the	Securities	
and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No.19 of 2021 (sec Act) nor an administrative sanction has been 
imposed	by	the	Commission	during	a	period	of	three	(3)	years	immediately	preceding	the	date	of	this	affidavit.	
7.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	Key	Management	Person	of	a	company,	partnership	or	other	organization	
whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, 
any rules or regulations made thereunder.
8.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	person	who	has	been	censured,	disciplined,	suspended	or	refused	membership	
or registration by the commission and/or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period 
of	three	(3)	years	immediately	preceding	the	date	of	this	affidavit.
9.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	person	who	has	been	disqualified	by	the	Commission	and/or	any	other	
regulatory body or professional body from serving as a director of a company, or has been dismissed or requested 
to	resign	from	any	position	or	office	due	to	mismanagement	of	funds	or	the	commission	of	a	financial	fraud.	
10.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	not	a	person	against	whom	an	inquiry	and/or	investigation	by	the	Commission/and	or	any	
other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for the 
commission of suspected capital market offences or any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty or that a 
finding	has	been	made	by	the	Commission/and	or	any	other	regulatory/supervisory	authority/professional	body	
in sri Lanka or abroad that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.

<!-- page 35 -->

35A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
11.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	contravened	any	written	law	enacted	for	the	protection	of	the	members	of	the	public	
against	financial	loss	by	dishonesty,	incompetence	or	malpractice.
12.	 I	affirm/state	that	no	proceedings	have	been	instituted	in	a	court	of	law	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	requesting	that	I	be	
declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	subject	to	any	judgement	debt	or	award	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	that	remains	
unpaid in whole or in part.
14.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	not	a	person/a	director	of	a	company	or	a	shareholder	in	a	position	that		exercises	significant	
influence	in	a	company	that:
(a) has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or 
in part; or 
(b)	 has	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	made	any	arrangements	in	composition	with	its	creditors,	filed	for	bankruptcy,	
been declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court 
of law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	declared	as	a	person	of	unsound	mind	by	a	court	of	competent	jurisdiction	in	Sri	
Lanka or abroad. 
16.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	the	relevant	training,	competence	and	expertise	in	the	nature	of	the	business	being	conducted	
by the entity. 
17.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	the	suitable	experience	to	perform	the	regulated	function.
18.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	adequate	time	to	perform	the	regulated	functions	and	meet	the	responsibilities	associated	
with such function of the entity.
19.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	the	technical	knowledge	and	ability	to	perform	the	prescribed	duties	which	I	am	engaged	
in,	especially	recognised	professional	qualifications	and	membership	of	relevant	professional	institutions.
20.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	contravened	any	written	law	enacted	for	the	protection	of	the	members	of	the	public	
against	financial	loss	due	to	my	incompetence.
21.	 I	affirm/state	that	all	of	the	above	are	true	and	accurate	to	the	best	of	my	knowledge.
the averments contained herein were 
read	over	to	the	[affirmant/deponent]	
who having understood the contents 
hereof and having accepted same as 
true,
[affirmed/	swore]	to	and	placed	his/her	
signature	at	………….	on	
this	……………	day		of
	…………………
Affix	stamps	as	
applicable
Before me
 JustIce oF the PeAce/commIssIoNer For oAths.

<!-- page 36 -->

36A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE  IV
Minimum Requirements of an Internal Compliance Manual
1.	 Conflicts	of	Interest:
(a)	 a	 mechanism	to	monitor	and	identify	conflict	of	interest	situations	and	steps	to	address	such	situations	
in a timely manner;
(b) procedures to prevent or control the exchange of information between persons engaged in activities 
that	give	rise	to	a	risk	of	a	conflict	of	interest;
(c)	 procedures	 for	the	prevention	or	limitation	of	any	person	from	exercising	undue	influence	over	the	
manner in which a relevant person carries out services or activities;
(d)	 ensure	that	it	does	not	carry	out	any	activities,	which	could	cause	a	conflict	of	interest	with	its	Clearing	
house functions;
(e) a transparent and non-discriminatory criteria for the admission of clearing members;
(f) a procedure to ensure that the clearing house does not engage in transactions with related parties in 
a manner that would grant such parties more favorable treatment than that accorded to third parties 
in the ordinary course of business; and 
(g) measures ensuring that entity acts in the best interest of the public. 
2. corporate Governance:
(a) composition of the board of directors, availability of its subcommittees in accordance with these rules;  
(b) a code of conduct and ethics, good business practices and the requirement to follow just and fair principles 
in the conduct of its business;
(c) requirement to comply with the sec Act, applicable rules and regulations introduced by the commission 
in respect of clearing houses;
(d)	 requirement	to	implement	a	sound	financial	and	business	reporting	structure;
(e) requirement to segregate assets of the clearing members from those of the clearing house; and
(f)	 requirement	to	ensure	compliance	with	fitness	and	proprietary	Rules	issued	by	the	Commission	from	
time to time. 
3. Internal controls and risk management:
(a) the availability of sound internal controls and risk management policies and processes;
(b) the availability of internal audit systems;
(c)	 regular	review	of	the	adequacy	and	effectiveness	of	financial,	operational	and	compliance	controls;	and
(d) regular review of the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management policies and procedures.

<!-- page 37 -->

37A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE V
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
	 1.	 Confirmation	that	the	business	has	been	conducted	in	conformity	with	the:
 
 (a) securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;
 (b) rules issued by the commission;
 (c) rules of an exchange pertaining to a clearing house; and
 (d) rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including 
rules and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
 2. If not:
 (a) provide information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
 (b) action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
 (c) the outcome. 
 3. monitoring of network availability and performance with:
 (a) details pertaining to instances in which systems failure/malfunctions were detected in relation to the 
clearing system during the quarter; and 
	 (b)	 details	 pertaining	to	the	security	threats	to	the	network	operating	systems	identified	during	the	quarter.
  Any instances as referred to items 3 (a) and (b) above and the remedial action taken shall be immediately brought 
to the attention of the commission.
 4. A list of complaints received by the clearing house for the quarter and the current status of such complaints.
	 5.	 A 	list	of	instances	in	which	settlement	failures	by	the	Clearing	Members	have	been	identified	during	the	
quarter.
 6. A list of instances in which the clearing members have failed to meet margin and collateral requirements 
stipulated in the rules of a clearing house.
 7. Findings on stress testing conducted quarterly in relation to the adequacy of components of default waterfall.
 8. Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
  If so:
 (a) the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
 (b)  outcomes if any.
  
eoG 03-0882/2

<!-- page 38 -->

38A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
RuLES APPLICAbLE TO A CENTRAL DEPOSITORY
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021
ruLes made by the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka, in terms of section 183 of the securities and 
exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021.
 Viraj Dayaratne Pc
 chairman
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka.
colombo
15
th march, 2022.
these rules may be cited as the rules applicable to a central depository.
General 
interpretation
1.	 The	words	and	terms	defined	in	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	of	Sri	
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same meaning 
assigned to it in the said Act:
“Central	Depository”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	of	the	
sec Act;
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka established 
in terms of the sec Act;
“Depository	Participant”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	of	
the sec Act;
“Exchange”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section		188	of	the	SEC	Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and shall include 
alternate	directors,	a	chief	executive	officer,	compliance	officer	and	persons	having	
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of a 
company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Liquid Assets” means unencumbered cash or investments which can be readily 
converted to cash such as bank/call deposits, re-purchase agreements with maturity of 
less than three (3) months, commercial papers which are endorsed or guaranteed by a 
licensed commercial bank or licensed specialized bank with a term to maturity of less 
than three (3)  months and government issued securities with a term to maturity of one 
(1) year or less or any other form of instruments as determined by the commission;
“Market	Contract”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	32	of	the	SEC	Act;
“Securities”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	of	the	SEC	Act;
“securities Account ” means an account opened in a central depository;
“securities Account holder” means a person in whose name a securities Account has 
been opened in a central depository; 
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 
of 2021;

<!-- page 39 -->

39A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
“shareholders’ Funds” mean the amount of equity of the company, which belongs to 
the shareholders of the company.
Applicability 2. the rules set out herein shall apply to a central depository licensed under the sec 
Act.
3. every central depository shall comply with:
(a) the rules set out herein and any amendments made thereto;
(b) provisions of the sec Act;
(c) directives issued from time to time by the commission; and
(d) r ules issued by the commission relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key 
management Person of a market Institution.
Requirement for a 
licence
4.	 No	entity	shall	engage	in	the	function	of	a	Central	Depository	without	having	first	
obtained a licence from the commission.
Procedure to obtain a 
licence
5.	 The	grant	of	a	licence	shall	be	a	two	(2)	stage	process.	An	applicant	may	in	the	first	
instance apply for in-principle approval upon satisfying the requirements as set out 
in (a) hereof and after having obtained in-principle approval may thereafter apply for 
final	approval	upon	satisfying	the	requirements	as	set	out	in	(b)	hereof:
(a) In order to obtain in-principle approval an applicant shall submit to the commission:
 (i) a duly completed application form according to the specimen provided on 
the website of the commission;
 (ii) documents to establish the source of funding to establish the c entral 
depository;
 (iii) documents outlining the business model to carry on the functions of the 
Central	Depository	including	financial	feasibility;
 (iv) documents outlining the structures, systems and controls in place which 
will enable it to differentiate and segregate its commercial interests from its 
regulatory responsibilities;
 (v) documents outlining the governance structure of the central depository;
 (vi) documents outlining the procedure in relation to the admission of depository 
Participants to the central depository;
 (vii) a declaration by the applicant as per schedule I of these rules;
	 (viii)	 a	 copy	of	the	internal	compliance	manual	as	specified	in	Schedule	IV	of	
these rules;
 (ix) a copy of the draft rules of the applicant in conformity with the requirements 
set out in section 55 of the sec Act;
 (x) documentation in support of measures taken to acquire infrastructure and 
meet	related	requirements	as	specified	in	Rule	20;

<!-- page 40 -->

40A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
 (xi) documentation in support of steps taken to recruit adequate human resources 
as stated in rule 37 to effectively discharge the obligations in keeping with 
the	identified	organizational	structure	of	the	applicant;
 (xii) any other requirements and/or information that the commission may require 
considering particular circumstances;
	 (xiii)	 the	 processing	fee	specified	by	way	of	regulations	made	by	the	Minister		
from time to time.
	 (b)	 Within	six	(6)	months	of	obtaining	in-principle	approval,	the	applicant	shall	fulfill	
the following requirements and submit the following documents as proof thereof 
in	order	to	obtain	final	approval:
	 (i)	 confirmation	 from	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	that	the	applicant	
has met the requirements as spelt out in rule 8 (a) and (b) of these rules;
	 (ii)	 declarations	 by	Key	Management	Persons	relating	to	their	fitness	and	
propriety in terms of the Fitness and Propriety of a Key management Person 
of a market Institution as stipulated in schedule II of these rules. such 
declaration	shall	be	in	the	form	of	an	affidavit	prepared	in	accordance	with	
the specimen provided in schedule III of these rules; 
 (iii) confirmation from the chief executive officer and a director of the 
establishment  of a system that will enable the maintenance of securities in 
a scrip-less form and the ability to maintain data entries electronically as 
stated in rule 20;
	 (iv)	 confirmation	 from	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	of	the	recruitment	
of	adequate	human	resources,	particularly	the	officers	stated	in	Rule	37	along	
with their names and designations; and
	 (v)	 the	 annual	licence	fee	specified	by	way	of	regulations	made	by	the	Minister	
from time to time.
* however, in the event central depository systems (Pvt.) Ltd. is desirous of obtaining a 
licence to continue its functions as a central depository upon expiration of its present 
licence granted by the commission, the two stage process mentioned above may be 
waived by the commission provided that the central depository systems (Pvt.) Ltd. 
satisfies	all	requirements	set	out	in	(a)	and	(b)	above	at	the	same	time.
6. As stipulated in section 69 of the sec Act, it shall be the duty of a central depository 
to	obtain	the	prior	approval	of	the	Commission	of	any	change	in	particulars	specified	
in an application to be licensed as a central depository.
Licensing fee 7. A central depository shall pay such licensing fee as prescribed by way of regulations 
made by the minister from time to time.

<!-- page 41 -->

41A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Minimum financial 
requirements and 
submission of reports
8. A central depository shall:
(a) at all times maintain minimum shareholders’ Funds as determined by the 
commission from time to time;
(b) at all times maintain minimum Liquid Assets determined by the commission  
from time to time; and
(c) inform the commission immediately if shareholders’ Funds and/or Liquid Assets 
fall below the requirement as stipulated in rule 8 (a) and (b) above.
9. A central depository shall provide the information as set out below to the commission:
(a)	 financial	statements	 prepared	 quarterly	 in	conformity	 with	the	Sri	Lanka	
Accounting	Standards	signed	by	the	chief	executive	officer	and	a	director	within	
forty	five	(45)	 days	from	the	end	of	each	quarter;
(b) a copy of the annual report in conformity with section 73 of the sec Act within 
a	period	of	five	(5)	months	from	the	close	of	each	financial	year;	and
(c) a copy of the compliance report as stated in rule 51 hereof.
10. A central depository shall, within three (3) months from the date of the auditor’s 
report,	take	steps	to	rectify	the	deficiencies	if	any,	made	out	in	the	auditor’s	report.
Change of shareholding 11.	 A	change	in	the	shareholding	of	five	per	centum	(5%)	or	more	of	the	total	shareholding	
of a central depository shall be made only upon obtaining the prior approval of the 
commission.
Duties of a Central 
Depository
12. A central depository shall at all times ensure that it complies with the duties stipulated 
under section 56 of the sec Act. 
Segregation of Securities 13. A central depository shall ensure the segregation of securities belonging to investors 
from those of depository Participants.
Operations of a Central 
Depository
14. All securities Accounts opened with the central depository shall be in the name of 
the	beneficial	owner	of	the	deposited	securities	or	in	the	name	of	a	nominee.	
15. A central depository shall not process the opening of any securities Accounts where 
the application is not in conformity with these rules, rules of a central depository 
and the central depository’s operational guidelines.
16. All dealings of securities held in a central depository shall be made by way of book 
entries in the accounts of a central depository. 
17.  A central depository shall ensure that all instructions relating to a securities Account 
are properly and accurately carried out and a proper log of such instructions is 
maintained. 
18. A central depository shall ensure that the securities Accounts of account holders are 
updated in relation to market contracts in a timely manner on the settlement date.
19. A central depository shall have a board approved procedure in relation to transfer 
of securities of securities Accounts, in the event of suspension/termination of a 
depository Participant.   

<!-- page 42 -->

42A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Infrastructure and related 
requirements
20. A central depository shall have all the capabilities to operate and conduct the functions 
of a central depository and shall ensure the availability of the following infrastructure 
and related features in its systems at a minimum:
 (a) an automated depository system with the ability to maintain data entries 
electronically;
 (b) settlement gateway connected to the depository system;
 (c) infrastructure requirement for internal business operations:
 (i) internal network;
 (ii) accounting system;
 (iii) document archiving and retention system;
 (iv) an electronic communication mechanism; and
 (v) data centre hosted (on-site or off-site) and a separate disaster recovery facility 
at a suitable location.  
21. A central depository shall ensure that its business applications minimize manual 
intervention in information inputs and outputs where possible and prevent unauthorized 
changes to its databases.
22. Information systems of  a  central depository shall be subjected to control reviews 
at	least	once	in	every	two	(2)	years	and	the	control	gaps	identified	shall	be	rectified	
following a time plan. the scope of testing should cover business logic, system 
function, security controls and system performance at a minimum. 
23. A central depository shall have a documented disaster recovery (dr) Plan. 
24. A dr test should be conducted annually in line with the dr plan of the central 
depository.
25. A central depository shall ensure that its hosted servers are subjected to vulnerability 
assessments and penetration tests annually. the issues arising from such tests shall be 
rectified	according	to	a	time	bound	plan.
26.	 The	reports	pertaining	to	reviews	and	tests	specified	in	Rules	22,	24	and	25	shall	be	
retained for reference for a minimum period of six (6) years.
27. A central depository shall maintain a duly updated systems and Procedures manual 
covering the following areas, to ensure compliance with these rules:
 (a) the organizational structure of the central depository identifying key functions 
and persons and their reporting structure:
 (b) operational procedures pertaining to a central depository covering the following 
areas at a minimum:
 (i) operational procedures pertaining to central depository systems/
functions;

<!-- page 43 -->

43A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
 (ii) availability of any procedures on staff trades by central depository 
employees; and 
 (iii) a procedure to handle complaints.
 (c)  policies, standards and procedures :
 (i) sound and prudent policies, standards and procedures for managing 
technology risks; and
 (ii) review and update policies, standards and procedures regularly, taking into 
consideration the evolving technology and cyber threat landscape.
 (c) management of third party services : 
 (i) a central depository shall asses and manage its exposure to technology risk 
that	may	affect	confidentiality,	integrity	and	availability	of	the	information	
technology systems and data before entering into a contractual agreement 
or partnership with third parties; and
 (ii) a comprehensive information technology security awareness training program 
shall be established to maintain a high level of awareness among all staff of 
the central depository.  
 (d) data and infrastructure security :
  develop comprehensive data loss prevention policies and adopt measures to detect 
and	prevent	unauthorized	access,	modification,	copying	or	transmission	of	its	
confidential	data.
 (e) user access management : 
  establish a user access management process covering provisions relating to change 
and the revocation of access rights.
 (f) network security :
	 	 deploy	 effective	security	mechanisms	to	protect	information	assets	(eg:	firewall),	
network access controls.
 (g) cyber security :
  establish a security operations center or acquire managed security services (the 
processes,	roles	and	responsibilities	for	security	operations	should	be	defined).
 (h) system backup and recovery :
  establish a system backup and recovery strategy and develop a plan to perform 
regular backups.

<!-- page 44 -->

44A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
 (i) investor education and communication :
  measures to raise awareness among investors on the security best practices and 
terms and conditions that investors should adhere to when using online services.
 (j) incident management :
  establish an incident management framework with the objective of restoring an 
affected information technology service or system to a secure and stable state as 
quickly as possible to minimize the impact to the business and the investors.
	 28.	 A	Central	Depository	shall	have	sufficient	and	appropriate	 processes	to	ensure	
the functions of legal and enforcement, compliance, surveillance, supervision of 
Depository	Participants,	information	technology,	finance	and	administration,	internal	
audit and risk management are carried out.
 
Rules of  a Central 
Depository
29.  A central depository in addition to the requirements stipulated in section 55 of the 
sec Act, shall make provision for the following in preparing its rules:
(a) eligibility of an entity to become a depository Participant;
(b) correspondence between the central depository and the depository Participants;
(c) opening/suspending/closing of securities Accounts;
(d) transfer of securities held in securities Accounts;
(e) forwarding account statement to securities Account holders;
(f) risk management requirements for depository Participants; and
(g) enforcement and disciplinary procedures for depository Participants.
Depository Participants of  
a Central Depository
30. In admitting depository Participants, a central depository shall ensure at a minimum 
that such depository Participants:
(a) are body corporates;
(b) have high business integrity;
(c)	 are	of	good	financial	standing;
(d)	 meet	the	minimum	financial	requirements	stipulated	in	the	Rules	of	a	Central	
depository; and
(e) meet the minimum standards stipulated in the rules of a central depository.
31. A central depository shall execute a detailed written agreement between the central 
depository and the depository Participant inclusive of rights and obligation of each 
party and dispute resolution mechanism. 
32. every central depository shall ensure that its depository Participants:

<!-- page 45 -->

45A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
(a) comply with rules applicable to depository Participants; and
(b) initiate timely disciplinary action and take suitable action for any contravention 
or failure to comply with the provisions of the sec Act.
Appointment of directors 
of the Central Depository
33. the appointment of directors of a central depository shall be in conformity with 
section 68 of the sec Act.
Governance of a Central 
Depository
34. A central depository shall have a board charter that inter alia includes a code of 
conduct for the board of directors and demarcate the responsibilities between its board 
of directors and the management.
35. A central depository shall have, at a minimum the following sub-committees of the 
board of directors:
(a) a risk and audit committee;
(b) a remuneration committee; and
(c) a nomination committee.
human resources of a 
Central Depository
36.	 A	Central	Depository	shall	have	an	organizational	structure	with	clearly	defined	
responsibilities and authority for each category of employees. 
37.	 A	Central	Depository	shall	have	suitably	qualified	persons	for	the	following	positions:	
(a)	 Chief	Executive	Officer	(CEO);
(b)	 Chief	Regulatory	Officer	(CRO);
(c) head of compliance;
(d) head of Legal;
(e) head of Finance; and
(f) head of Information technology.
Commission approval to 
engage in other businesses
38. A central depository shall disclose to the commission all other business activities 
it is engaged in at the time of applying for its licence and inform the commission in 
writing prior to engaging in any other business activity after obtaining a licence from 
the commission.
39. A central depository shall not engage in any other business which in the view of 
the	Commission	creates	a	conflict	of	interest	unless	prior	written	approval	of	the	
commission is obtained.
40. In the conduct of any such other business activity, a central depository shall ensure that 
proper processes are in place to have a clear demarcation of the different functions 
pertaining to such businesses.
Maintenance of records 41. A central depository shall maintain the following records:
(a) records pertaining to transaction history of each securities Accounts of 
securities Account holders;
(b) correspondence with depository Participants;
(c) comprehensive written records pertaining to disciplinary actions initiated against 
depository Participants;
(d) a comprehensive written record of all complaints received/disputes and action 
taken thereon by the central depository; and
(e) any other record the commission requires the central depository to maintain 
from time to time.

<!-- page 46 -->

46A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
42. All of the above records shall be retained by the central depository for a period of 
six (6) years.
43.	 A	Central	Depository	shall	ensure	confidentiality	of	all	information	relating	to	Securities	
Account holders unless such disclosure is required by law.
Keeping of books and 
furnishing of returns
44. A central depository shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained, such accounting records and other books as 
will	truly	reflect	the	transactions	and	financial	position	of	its	business	and	enable	
the	preparation	of	a	true	and	fair	income	statement	and	a	statement	of	financial	
position in keeping with the sri Lanka Accounting standards adopted by the 
Institute of chartered Accountants of sri Lanka;
(b) maintain or cause to be maintained such accounting records and other books in 
such manner as will enable them to be accurately audited; and
(c) retain such accounting records or other books for a period of not less than six (6) 
years.
Duty to furnish information 
and co-operate with 
auditors appointed by the 
Commission
45. Where the commission having considered that it is in the interest of the central 
depository or those of its depository Participants, appoints an independent auditor or 
such other person or a body of persons to examine, audit and report either generally 
or in relation to any particular matter, it shall be the duty of such central depository:
(a) to produce any books, accounts and records of any assets held by the c entral 
depository relating to its business;
(b) to produce any records of any systems, processes or procedures adopted by the 
central depository relating to its business;
(c) to provide all information within its knowledge or which it is capable of obtaining; 
and
(d) to ensure that all the information which is furnished to the auditor or independent 
auditor as the case may be is not false or misleading in any material particulars.
46. A central depository shall not destroy, conceal or alter any records, property or books 
relating to the business of the central depository which are in its possession or under 
its control with the intention of defeating, preventing, delaying or obstructing the 
carrying out of any examination.
Submission of information 
to the  Commission
47. A central depository shall furnish such returns and provide such information relating 
to its business as the commission may require from time to time.
48. t he commission may determine that any information required herein shall be submitted 
within such period at such intervals in such manner or in such form as the commission 
may specify and the central depository shall comply with such requirements.
Trading by employees 49. In the event of trading by employees of a central d epository, order instructions 
pertaining to such trades shall not be forwarded to a stock Broker unless the order is 
authorized	in	writing	by	the	chief	executive	officer	or	the	compliance	officer	of	the	
central depository.

<!-- page 47 -->

47A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Compliance manual 50. A central depository shall have an internal compliance manual applicable to its 
directors and employees which shall include amongst others adequate compliance 
procedures and practices as set out in schedule IV of these rules. 
Regulatory compliance 
and internal controls
51.	 The	compliance	officer	on	behalf	of	the	Central	Depository	shall	make	a	quarterly	
compliance	report	which	shall	include	amongst	others	the	contents	specified	in	
schedule V of these rules approved by the board of directors and signed by the chief 
executive	officer	and	a	director	confirming	compliance	with	the	provisions	of	the	SEC	
Act, the criteria set out herein, any other rules or directives issued by the commission 
from time to time and the Financial transactions reporting Act, No. 06 of 2006 where 
applicable and forward the same to the commission, before the twentieth (20
th) day 
of the following month.
however, in the event any non-compliance or breach is detected, the compliance 
officer	shall	immediately	report	such	matter	to	the	board	of	directors	for	rectification,	
and inform the commission within a period of twenty-eight (28) days from the date 
on which the board of directors were informed as to the steps that have been taken 
by the board of directors to rectify such non-compliance.
52. A central depository shall have a fair and transparent complaint handling procedure 
to ensure the best interest of the depository Participants and the public and shall 
maintain procedures to ensure that complaints received in relation to the conduct of 
depository Participants are handled in a timely and effective manner.
53. A central depository shall adhere to the Know your client (Kyc) and due diligence 
procedures	specified	by	the	Financial	Intelligence	Unit	(FIU)	of	the	Central	Bank	of	
sri Lanka from time to time.
Notification on the 
happening of certain 
events
54. Without prejudice to the generality of the duties imposed under the sec Act, in the 
event of any one or more of the following events occur, a central depository shall 
forthwith provide written notice to the commission:
 (a)  the central depository is in the course of being wound up or otherwise dissolved 
whether within or outside sri Lanka or where a receiver, liquidator or an equivalent 
person has been appointed in respect of any property of the central depository;
 (b) the central depository is unable to carry its functions of a central depository;
 (c)  the central depository has failed to comply with the provisions of the sec Act, 
rules relating to Fitness and Propriety of a Key management Person of a market 
Institution	and	the	Rules	specified	herein	or	any	other	directive	issued	by	the	
commission from time to time;
 (d) any information or document furnished to the commission is false or misleading 
or there is any change in any information contained in a document furnished to 
the commission;
 (e)  any execution against the central depository in respect of a judgment debt has 
been	returned	unsatisfied	in	whole	or	in	part;
 (f)  the central depository whether within or outside sri Lanka has entered into a 
compromise or scheme of arrangement with its creditors being a compromise or 
scheme of arrangement;
 (g) a Key management Person has been convicted of any offence involving fraud or 
dishonesty or a violation of securities law within or outside of sri Lanka; and/or
 (h) a Key management Person of the central depository becomes an undischarged 
bankrupt.

<!-- page 48 -->

48A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Cancellation of a licence 55. the cancellation of a licence granted to a central depository shall be governed by 
the provisions contained in sections 57 and 58 of the sec Act.
Licence of a Central
Depository deemed to be
revoked
56. A licence of a central depository shall be deemed to be revoked if the company to 
whom a licence has been granted is wound up or otherwise dissolved.
SChEDuLE I
Declaration by the Applicant
to: chairman
 securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
 Level 28 & 29, east tower
 World trade center
 echelon square, colombo 01, sri Lanka.
In consideration of being licensed to operate as (type of market institution), we (name of the applicant entity) being 
duly	incorporated	and	having	our	registered	office/principal	place	of	business	at….................(address)........…..hereby	
undertake and agree:
1. to be licensed at the sole discretion of the commission and for such period as may be determined by the com-
mission; and
 
2. to be bound by the applicable laws, rules, regulations and directives of the commission as amended or replaced 
from time to time.
We	further	declare	that	no	finding	has	been	made	against	the	applicant	entity	by	a	court	of	law	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	
for the commission of any criminal offence/capital market offence or any other act which involves fraud, deceit, dis-
honesty,	misrepresentation,	breach	of	contract	or	breach	of	fiduciary	duty	and	that	the	statements	made	and	information	
provided along with the application are true and accurate to the best of our knowledge.
Given	under	the	common	seal	of	the	entity	on	this….................day	of.............….in	the	presence	of
………………………
(Name)
director
………………………..
(Name) 
director/secretary
or,
Signed	by	the	duly	authorized	signatories	of	the	entity	on	this................….day	of…..............
…………………
(Name) Authorized signatory
Note:	Please	attach	a	certified	true	copy	of	the	board	resolution/Power	of	Attorney	in	proof	of	such	authority.

<!-- page 49 -->

49A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE II
Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market Institution
General interpretation 1.	 The	words	and	terms	defined	in	the	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	of	Sri	
Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 shall unless the context so requires have the same 
meaning assigned to them in the said Act:
“commission” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka 
established in terms of the sec Act;
“Key management Person” means directors (executive or otherwise) and 
shall	include	alternate	directors,	a	chief	executive	officer,	compliance	officer	
and persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of a company/entity either directly or indirectly;
“Market	Institution”	shall	have	the	same	meaning	as	defined	in	Section	188	
of the sec Act;
“sec Act” means the securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, 
No. 19 of 2021.
Submission of an affidavit to 
the Commission 
2. No individual shall be appointed, elected, nominated or continue to serve as a 
Key	Management	Person	of	a	Market	Institution	unless	that	individual	is	a	fit	
and	proper	person	to	hold	such	office	in	such	entity	as	morefully	described	in	
these rules. 
3. An individual proposed to be appointed, elected or nominated or who intends to 
continue to serve in the capacity of a Key management Person, shall submit an 
affidavit	to	the	Commission	affirming	that	such	person	is	not	subject	to	any	of	
the	infirmities	morefully	described	in	these	Rules	prior	to	such	individual	being	
appointed and at the time a market Institution seeks a licence.
4.	 The	information	contained	in	the	affidavit	shall	not	be	misleading	or	vague	and	
shall contain a statement that the contents are true and accurate.
5. Adherence to these rules shall be a continuous requirement and the compliance 
officer	of	a	Market	Institution	shall	immediately	inform	the	board	of	directors	of	
any	matter	that	may	disqualify	the	appointment	or	the	continuation	in	office	of	
a Key management Person and the board of directors shall immediately notify 
the commission the decision made in respect of such matter. 

<!-- page 50 -->

50A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
honesty, integrity and
reputation
6. the Key management Person shall not:
(a) be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in 
sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence;
(b) be a person who has been found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in 
sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of a capital market offence or against 
whom an offence has been compounded in terms of the sec Act during a 
period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the application;
(c) have been a Key management Person of a body corporate who has been 
found guilty/held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the 
commission of any criminal offence or capital market offence having proved 
to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence 
attributable to such person;
(d) be a person who has been subject to an administrative sanction by the 
commission during a period of three (3) years immediately preceding the 
date of the application;
(e) be a Key management Person of a company, partnership or other organization 
whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for 
violating any provision of the sec Act or any rules or regulations made 
thereunder;
(f) be a person who has been censured, disciplined, suspended or refused 
membership or registration by the commission and any other regulatory 
authority in sri Lanka or elsewhere during a period of three (3) years 
immediately preceding the date of the application;
(g)	 be	a	person	against	whom	a	finding	has	been	made	by	the	Commission	or	
any other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka 
or abroad that such individual has committed any act which involves fraud, 
deceit or dishonesty;
(h)	 be	a	person	who	has	been	disqualified	from	acting	as	a	director	of	a	company,	
or	has	been	dismissed	or	requested	to	resign	from	any	position	or	office	due	
to	mismanagement	of	funds	or	the	commission	of	financial	fraud	by	the	
commission, any other regulatory body or professional body;
(i) be a person against whom an inquiry and/or investigation by the commission 
and/or any other regulatory/professional body in sri Lanka or elsewhere is 
presently pending for the commission of suspected capital market offences 
or any matter that involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty; and/or
(j) be a person who has contravened any written law enacted for the protection 
of	the	members	of	the	public	against	financial	loss	due	to	dishonesty	or	
malpractice of such person.

<!-- page 51 -->

51A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
Financial soundness 7. the Key management Person shall not:
(a) have proceedings instituted to be declared bankrupt or have been declared 
bankrupt and/or had assets sequestered;
(b) have been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad that 
remains unpaid in whole or in part; and/or
(c)	 have	been	a	person	of	a	company	in	a	position	that	exercises	significant	
influence	in	a	company	that:
(i) has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or 
abroad that remains unpaid in whole or in part; or
(ii) has in sri Lanka or abroad, made any arrangements in composition 
with	its	creditors,	filed	for	bankruptcy,	been	declared		bankrupt,	had	
assets sequestered,  involved in winding-up proceedings ordered 
by a court of law or been involved in proceedings relating to any 
of the foregoing.
Competence and capability 8. the Key management Person shall:
(a) not have been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction in sri Lanka or 
abroad to be of unsound mind; 
(b)	 possess	the	qualifications	required	to	provide	the	services	for	which	a	licence	
has been sought/obtained from the commission;
(c)	 have	satisfied	the	relevant	training	and	competence	requirements	in	relation	
to the regulated function the person performs or intends to perform;
(d)	 demonstrate	by	experience	that	the	chief	executive	officer,	the	chief	regulatory	
officer	and	the	compliance	officer	are	suitable	or	will	be	suitable	if	approved	
to perform the regulated functions;
(e) possess adequate time to perform the regulated function and meet the 
responsibilities associated with that function;and/or
(f) have not contravened any written law enacted for the protection of the 
members	of	the	public	against	financial	loss	due	to	incompetence	of	such	
person.

<!-- page 52 -->

52A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE III
Specimen of an Affidavit for Fitness and Propriety of a Key Management Person of a Market 
Institution
I, ___________________________________________________ [Full name] holder of NIc No./Passport No. 
(In the case of a foreign national) ___________of __________________________ [Address], being a [Buddhist/
Hindu/Muslim	do	hereby	solemnly,	sincerely	and	truly	declare	and	affirm]/[Christian/Catholic	make	oath	and	
swear as follows]:
1.	 I	am	the	[affirmant/deponent]	above	named.
2.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	a	____________	[Designation] of _________________________________ [Name of the 
applicant entity].
3.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	possess	suitable	academic	and/or	professional	qualification(s)	to	perform	the	prescribed	duties	
which I am engaged in.
4.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	found	guilty/held	responsible	by	a	court	of	law	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	for	the	
commission of any criminal offence/capital market offence.
 
5.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	Key	Management	Person	of	a	body	corporate	which	has	been	found	guilty/
held responsible by a court of law in sri Lanka or abroad for the commission of any criminal offence/capital 
market offence, proved to have been committed with the knowledge or involvement or negligence attributable 
to me.
6.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	not	a	person	against	whom	an	offence	has	been	compounded	in	terms	of	the	Securities	
and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021 (sec Act) nor an administrative sanction has been 
imposed	by	the	Commission	during	a	period	of	three	(3)	years	immediately	preceding	the	date	of	this	affidavit.	
7.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	Key	Management	Person	of	a	company,	partnership	or	other	organization	
whose licence has been suspended or cancelled by the commission for violating any provision of the sec Act, 
any rules or regulations made thereunder.
8.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	person	who	has	been	censured,	disciplined,	suspended	or	refused	membership	
or registration by the commission or any other regulatory authority in sri Lanka or abroad during a period of 
three	(3)	years	immediately	preceding	the	date	of	this	affidavit.
9.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	a	person	who	has	been	disqualified	by	the	Commission	or	any	other	regulatory	
body or professional body from serving as a director of a company, or has been dismissed or requested to resign 
from	any	position	or	office	due	to	mismanagement	of	funds	or	the	commission	of	a	financial	fraud.	
10.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	not	a	person	against	whom	an	inquiry	and/or	an	investigation	by	the	Commission	or	any	
other regulatory/supervisory authority/professional body in sri Lanka or abroad is presently pending, for the 
commission of suspected capital market offences or any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty or that 
a	finding	has	been	made	by	the	Commission	or	any	other	regulatory/supervisory	authority/professional	body	in	
sri Lanka or abroad that I have committed any act which involves fraud, deceit or dishonesty.
11.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	contravened	any	written	law	enacted	for	the	protection	of	the	members	of	the	public	
against	financial	loss	by	dishonesty,	incompetence	or	malpractice.

<!-- page 53 -->

53A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
the averments contained herein were 
read	over	to	the	[affirmant/deponent]	
who having understood the contents 
hereof and having accepted same as 
true,
[affirmed/	swore]	to	and	placed	his/her	
signature	at	………….	on	
this	……………	day		of
	…………………
Affix	stamps	as	
applicable
Before me
 JustIce oF the PeAce/commIssIoNer For oAths.
12.	 I	affirm/state	that	no	proceedings	have	been	instituted	in	a	court	of	law	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	requesting	that	
I be declared bankrupt or that I have not been declared bankrupt and that my assets have not been sequestered. 
13.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	subject	to	any	judgment	debt	or	award	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	that	remains	
unpaid in whole or in part.
14.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	am	not	a	person/a	director	of	a	company	or	a	shareholder	in	a	position	that		exercises	
significant	influence	in	a	company	that:
(a) has been subject to any judgment debt or award in sri Lanka or abroad, that remains unpaid in whole or 
in part; or 
(b)	has	in	Sri	Lanka	or	abroad	made	any	arrangements	in	composition	with	its	creditors,	filed	for	bankruptcy,	
been declared bankrupt, had assets sequestered, involved in winding-up proceedings ordered by a court 
of law or been involved in proceedings relating to any of the foregoing. 
15.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	been	declared	as	a	person	of	unsound	mind	by	a	court	of	competent	jurisdiction	
in sri Lanka or abroad.
16.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	the	relevant	training,	competence	and	expertise	in	the	nature	of	the	business	being	
conducted by the entity. 
17.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	the	suitable	experience	to	perform	the	regulated	function.
18.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	adequate	time	to	perform	the	regulated	functions	and	meet	the	responsibilities	associated	
with such function of the entity.
19.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	the	technical	knowledge	and	ability	to	perform	the	prescribed	duties	which	I	am	engaged	
in,	especially	recognised	professional	qualifications	and	membership	of	relevant	professional	institutions.
20.	 I	affirm/state	that	I	have	not	contravened	any	written	law	enacted	for	the	protection	of	the	members	of	the	
public	against	financial	loss	due	to	my	incompetence.
21.	 I	affirm/state	that	all	of	the	above	are	true	and	accurate	to	the	best	of	my	knowledge.

<!-- page 54 -->

54A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE  IV
Minimum Requirements of an Internal Compliance Manual 
1.	 Conflicts	of	Interest:
(a)	 a	 mechanism	to	monitor	and	identify	conflicts	of	interest	situations	and	steps	to	address	such	situations	
in a timely manner;
(b) procedures to prevent or control the exchange of information between persons engaged in activities 
that	give	rise	to	a	risk	of	a	conflict	of	interest;
(c)	 procedures	 for	the	prevention	or	limitation	of	any	person	from	exercising	undue	influence	over	the	
manner in which a relevant person carries out services or activities;
(d)	 ensure	that	it	does	not	carry	out	any	activities,	which	could	cause	a	conflict	of	interest	with	its	Central	
depository functions;
(e) a transparent and non-discriminatory criteria for the admission of depository Participants;
(f) a procedure to ensure that the central depository does not engage in transactions with related parties 
in a manner that would grant such parties more favorable treatment than that accorded to third parties 
in the ordinary course of business; and
(g) measures ensuring that the entity acts in the best interest of the public. 
2. corporate Governance:
(a) composition of the board of directors, availability of its subcommittees in accordance with these rules;  
(b) a code of conduct and ethics, good business practices and the requirement to follow just and fair 
principles in the conduct of its business;
(c) requirement to comply with the sec Act, applicable rules and regulations introduced by the commission 
in respect of central depositories;
(d)	 requirement	to	implement	sound	financial	and	business	reporting	structure;
(e) requirement to segregate assets of the depository Participants from those of the central depository;
(f) requirement to segregate securities of the securities Account holders from those of the depository 
Participants; and
(g) requirement to ensure compliance with Fitness and Proprietary of a Key management Person of a market 
Institution issued by the commission from time to time.
3. Internal controls and risk management:
(a) the availability of sound internal controls and risk management policies and processes;
(b) the availability of internal audit systems;
(c)	 regular	review	of	the	adequacy	and	effectiveness	of	financial,	operational	and	compliance	controls;	and
(d) regular review of the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management policies and procedures.

<!-- page 55 -->

55A
I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'03'15
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST    REPUBLIC    OF   SRI    LANKA - 15.03.2022
SChEDuLE  V
Minimum Matters to be Disclosed in a Compliance Report
1.	 Confirmation	that	the	business	has	been	conducted	in	conformity	with	the:	
(a) securities and exchange commission of sri Lanka Act, No. 19 of 2021;
(b) rules issued by the commission;
(c) rules of a central depository pertaining to a central depository; and
(d) rules and regulations of the Financial Intelligence unit (FIu) of the central Bank of sri Lanka including 
rules and regulations pertaining to Anti money Laundering.
2. If not:
(a) provide information as to the nature of the non-compliance or breach;
(b) action taken to prevent or mitigate the non-compliance or breach; and 
(c) the outcome. 
3. Whether any suspicious transaction reports (strs) have been generated.
If so:
(a) the number generated and submitted to the FIu; and
(b) outcomes if any. 
PrinteD at tHe DePartMent OF GOVernMent PrintinG,  Sri LanKa.
eoG 03-0882/3