

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
COMPUTER SOCIETY OF SRI LANKA
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Thilanga Sumathipala M.P. for Colombo District on
March 22, 2012
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the Computer Society of Sri Lanka
——————
——————
[Bill No. 165]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on March 12, 2012)
2—PL 006696—  850 (03/2012)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Computer Society of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
2—PL 006596—  75 (02/2012)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE COMPUTER SOCIETY OF SRI LANKA
WHEREAS  a Society  called and known as the "Computer
Society of Sri Lanka" has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Society
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be expedient to grant the said application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Computer Society of Sri
Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2012.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Computer Society of Sri Lanka   or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Society hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate  with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the "Computer Society of Sri Lanka" (hereinafter
referred to as the "Corporation") and by that name may sue
and be sued shall have full power and authority to have and
use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide an organization for professionals engaged
in information and communication technology,
supervise and monitor its professional activities and
Incorporation
of Computer
Society of Sri
Lanka.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2  Computer Society of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
foster and maintain the highest professional
standards in the industry.;
(b) to  recognize, confer and award the status of
Chartered Membership amongst such other classes
of membership as the Corporation may from time
to time decide in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation made under section 6 of this Act;
(c) to promote and develop the study and practice of
information and communication technology and
to advance knowledge, facilitate education,
training, research and the acquisition and
interchange of technical knowledge therein for the
benefit of the public;
(d) to promote, organize and engage in economic and
financial activities and to carry on such activities
both within and outside Sri Lanka for the purpose
of financing the programmes, projects and activities
of the Corporation;
(e) to conduct examinations qualifying for
membership of the Corporation and to test the
competence of persons engaged in information and
communication technology and the award of
certificates;
(f) to contribute within the area of its professional
competence to the economic growth of the country;
(g) to manage various programmes and projects of the
Corporation;
(h) to enter into arrangements for union of interest,
cooperation, joint ventures, reciprocal concession
or otherwise with any person carrying on or engaged
in any business or transaction which the
Corporation wishes to carry on or be engaged in;
and
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Computer Society of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(i) to liaise with similar professional institutions in
Sri Lanka or abroad in furtherance of the objects of
the Corporation;
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) of this section the Corporation shall ensure
that such impelmentation shall be carried out without any
distinction based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion or place of birth.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 6, be
administered by an Executive Council (in this Act referred
to as the "Council") consisting of the President, Vice
President, Secratary and other office bearers elected or
appointed in accordance with the rules of the Corporation
made under section 6.
(2) The first Council shall consist of the members of the
Executive Council of the Society holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them including the power to:-
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortage
pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,
encumber or dispose of any immovable property
for the purpose of the Corporation;
(b) enter into and perform or carry out, wither directly
or throght any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4  Computer Society of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation;
(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or in
kind;
(d) invest its funds, and to maintain current, deposit
and savings accounts in any bank;
(e) to levy fees as the Corporation may deem reasonable
for any examination conducted by the Corporation
and for the admission of persons to any class of
membership;
(f) borrow or invest money for the purpose of the
Corporation in such manner and upon and such
security as the Corporation may think fit;  and
(g) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary
control over and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law on all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
resignation or expulsion of members;
(b) the determination of scales of fees as the Corporation
may deem reasonable for any examination
conducted by the Corporation and for the
admission of persons to any class of membership;
(c) the election of office-bearers, the resignation from
or vacation of, or removal from office of office
bearers and their powers, duties and functions;
30
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Computer Society of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(d) the powers, duties and functions of the various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed at the summoning
and holding of meatings of the Corporation and
the Council, the times places, notices and agenda
of such meetings and the quorum thereof  and the
conduct of business thereat;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the custody of its funds;
(g) establishing committees for the proper execution
of the objects of the Corporation; and
(h) qualifications and disqualifications of members of
the Corporation and the Council;
(2) Any rule made by the  Corporation  may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded  at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have tis own fund and
moneys heret ofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, transfers, investment shall be
deposited to the credit of the fund of the Corporation (in one
or more banks as may be determined by the Council.
(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercising
and discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out of
the fund.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
Accounts and
Audit.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6  Computer Society of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
5
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by the Council.
(4) In this section, "qualified auditor" means–
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certifiecate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of whcih, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
9. the seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
the Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrument
whatsoever except in the presence of the Chairman or the
vice Chairman and one other member duly authorized by
the Council who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Society existing on
the day perceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions and  contributions payable to
the Society on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
11. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Society.
10
15
20
25
30 Limitation of
liability of
members.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Computer Society of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
for any others purspoes, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
12. the moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of its
objects as set forth herein and  no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of the
Corporation.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and cabable in law to acquire and hold any
property, movable or immovable which may become vested
in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift testamentary
disposition  or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by  the Corporation for the pruposes of the Act and subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 6, with full
power to sell, mortagege, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of Corporation the same.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any
property whatsoever, such property, shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
transferred to some other Corporation or institutions having
objects similar to the objects of the Corporation and which is
or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or profit among its or their members.  Such institution
or institutions shall be determind by the members of the
Corporation or immediately before the time of dissolution of
the Corporation.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable..
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
right of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Application
of moneys
and property.

<!-- page 9 -->

8  Computer Society of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .