

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 7.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 16,  2007
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 16th November, 2007]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
INTERNATIONAL  COVENANT  ON  CIVIL
AND  POLITICAL RIGHTS (ICCPR)
ACT, No. 56 0F 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 2007
1
Short title.
Preamble.
2—PL 002502—4,350 (10/2007)
[Certified on 16th November, 2007]
L. D. — O. 30/2007.
A N  A CT  TO  GIVE  EFFECT  TO  CERTAIN  ARTICLES  IN  THE
INTERNA TIONAL  COVENANT  ON  CIVIL AND  POLITICAL  RIGHTS
(ICCPR) RELATING  TO  HUMAN  RIGHTS  WHICH  HAVE  NOT  BEEN
GIVEN  RECOGNITION  THROUGH  LEGISLATIVE  MEASURES  AND
TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR
INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
WHEREAS Sri Lanka is a State Party to the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which was adopted
by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 16th
December, 1966 and entered into force on 23rd March,
1976:
AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka has acceded to the aforesaid
Covenant on 11th June, 1980:
AND WHEREAS a substantial part of the civil and political
rights referred to in that Covenant have been given
legislative recognition in the Constitution of Sri Lanka,
as well as in  other legislation enacted by Parliament:
AND WHEREAS it has become necessary for the
Government of Sri Lanka to enact appropriate legislation
to give effect to those civil and political rights referred to
in the aforesaid Covenant, for which no adequate
legislative recognition has yet been granted:
NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 2007.
2. Every person shall have the right to recognition as
a person before the law.
3. (1) No person shall propagate war or advocate
national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes
incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence.
Right to be
recognized as a
person before
the law.
No person
should propagate
war.

<!-- page 3 -->

International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 2007
2
(2) Every person who—
(a) attempts to commit;
(b) aids or abets in the commission of; or
(c) threatens to commit,
an offence referred to in subsection (1), shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.
(3) A person found guilty of committing an offence under
subsection (1) or subsection (2) of this section shall on
conviction by the High Court, be punished with rigorous
imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years.
(4) An offence under this section shall be cognizable and
non-bailable, and no person suspected or accused of such an
offence shall be enlarged on bail, except by the High Court
in exceptional circumstances.
(5) A trial in the High Court against any person for the
commission of an offence under this section shall be taken
up before any other business of that Court and shall be held
on a day to day basis and shall not be postponed, unless due
to any unavoidable circumstances, which shall be recorded.
(6) For the purpose of subsection (2) of this section “abet”
shall have the same meaning as in section 100 of the Penal
Code.
4. (1) A person charged of a criminal offence under any
written law, shall be entitled—
(a) to be afforded an opportunity of being tried in his
presence;
(b) to defend himself in person or through legal
assistance of his own choosing and where he does
not have any such assistance, to be informed of that
right;
Entitlement
of an alleged
offender.

<!-- page 4 -->

International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 2007
3
(c) to have legal assistance assigned to him in
appropriate cases where the interest of justice so
requires and without any payment by him, where he
does not have sufficient means to pay for such
assistance:
(d) to examine or to have examined the witnesses against
him and to obtain the attendance of witnesses on
his behalf, under the same conditions as witnesses
called against him;
(e) to have the assistance of an interpreter where such
person cannot understand or speak the language in
which the trial is being conducted; and
(f) not to be compelled to testify against himself or to
confess guilt.
(2) Every person convicted of a criminal offence under
any written law, shall have the right to appeal to a higher
court against such conviction and any sentence imposed.
(3) No person shall be tried or punished for any criminal
offence for which such person has already been convicted or
acquitted according to law.
5. (1) Every child has the right to—
(a) have his or her birth registered and to have a name
from his or her date of birth;
(b) acquire nationality;
(c) be protected from maltreatment, neglect, abuse or
degradation; and
(d) have legal assistance provided by the State at State’s
expense in criminal proceedings affecting the
child, if substantial injustice would otherwise
result.
Rights of a child.

<!-- page 5 -->

International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 2007
4
(2) In all matters concerning children, whether
undertaken by public or private social welfare institutions,
courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the
best interest of the child shall be of paramount importance.
6. (1) Every citizen shall have the right and the
opportunity to—
(a) take part in the conduct of public affairs, either
directly or through any representative; and
(b) have access to services provided to the public by
the State.
(2) For the purpose of this section, the expression
“conduct of public affairs” shall not include the conduct of
any affairs which are entrusted exclusively to any particular
authority, by or under any written law.
7. (1) A person shall be entitled to apply by way of
petition addressed to the High Court, against the infringement
or imminent infringement by executive or administrative
action, of any human right to which such person is entitled to
under sections 2, 4, 5 and 6 of this Act and plead for such
relief or redress as shall be prayed for in such petition.
(2) The jurisdiction of the High Court may be invoked
under subsection (1) by a person, who alleges that any of the
human rights provided for by the sections referred to in
subsection (1) is infringed or is about to be infringed, by
himself or through any other person on his behalf, within
three months of the alleged infringement or imminent
infringement, as the case may be :
Provided however, the jurisdiction of the High Court shall
not extend to the adjudication upon an infringement or an
imminent infringement of any human right which comes
within the ambit of the fundamental rights or language rights
declared or recognized by Chapter III or Chapter IV of the
Constitution.
Right of access
to benefits
provided.
High Court to
exercise
jurisdiction over
the enforcement
of the human
rights recognized
under this Act.

<!-- page 6 -->

International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 2007
5
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law to
the contrary, the High Court may where it considers it
appropriate at any stage of the proceeding relating to a
petition made to it under subsection (1) of this section, refer
such matter to the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
for an inquiry and report and request such Commission to
submit its report to the High Court within such time as shall
be stipulated by the Court for that purpose.
(4) The High Court shall have the power to grant the
relief prayed for in a petition made to it under subsection (1)
or grant such other relief or make such direction as it may
consider just and equitable, in the circumstances of the case.
(5) For the purpose of subsection (1) of this section, a
“person” includes a child.
8. Any person aggrieved by an order made by the High
Court in any petition filed under seciton 7 of this Act, shall
have a right of appeal to the Supreme Court against such
order.
9. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of giving effect to the principles and provisions of
this Act.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.
 (3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as
soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
brought before Parliament for approval, Any regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded
as from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice
to anything previously done thereunder.
Right of appeal
to the Supreme
Court.
Regulations.

<!-- page 7 -->

International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 2007
6
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
so deemed to be rescinded, shall be published in the
Gazette.
10. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
“child” means a person under the age of eighteen years;
“High Court” means the High Court of the Republic
of Sri Lanka;
“Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka” means the
Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka,
established by the Human Rights Commission of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 8 -->

International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights (ICCPR) Act, No. 56 of 2007
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMA TION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.