

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 36
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … - 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"419 – 2025 ckjdß ui 10 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'01'10
No. 2,419 –  FRiday, jaNuaRy, 10, 2025
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31st january, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th january, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 K. G. Pradeep  Pushpa  Kumara,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
02nd january, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
33 - B 082644 - 5,403 (01/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
34
1. General Qualifications required  :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or 
tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a 
tamil educated in tamil Medium ( this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
j anuary 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.
conditions of Service-General  :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  
all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in 
tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 
if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (
other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the 
island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  
the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear . 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the 
army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5
 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of 
departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5
 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5
 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5
 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5
 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6  :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public 
corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 ( i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public 
administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
35
Rules  and   instructions  for  candidates
, all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who viola tes any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject
or a part thereof ;
(ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  
commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3.
under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5.
absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. 
another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. 
answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8.
any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. 
it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. 
the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12.
a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. 
a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14.
a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. 
impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16.
assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i) Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. 
if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)
in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. 
if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. 
in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper,
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)
candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. 
after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
(vii) the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  
y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. 
disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
(ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) 
at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. 
on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
(xii) if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
36
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
mINISTR y  Of fINANCE ,  PLANNING  AND ECONO mIC  DEv ELOP mENT
Department of Government v aluation
oPEN  c o MPE titi VE  Exa M i N atio N  F o R  M aki NG  RE c R uit MEN t to t HE  Po S t o F  aSS i S ta N t 
V a L u ER  o F  cL a SS  ii  G R ad E  ii  o F  oFF ic ER  ca t EG o R y  -2 o F  Fi EL d / oFF ic E   o F  t HE  dEP a R t MEN t 
o F   Go VERNMEN t V a L uatio N   –  2024
tHE  o pen c ompetitive Examination for making recruitment of 184 persons for the post of a ssistant Valuer of c lass ii  Grade 
ii  of the d epartment of Government Valuation will be held by the d irector General of Sri Lanka i nstitute of d evelopment 
a dministration in the month of march 2025 in c olombo only. t he date of Examination will be informed through paper 
advertisement in due course.  t he c hief Valuer reserves the right of postponing or cancellation of the said Examination. 
Applications are invited for this post from both males and females who possess the following qualifications.
01. Qualifications :-
i . Educational Qualifications :-
Should possess a Bachelor of Science Special d egree in Property Management and Valuation recognized by
the u niversity Grants c ommission or should be a c hartered Valuer with the membership at Royal institution of
c hartered Surveyors in u nited k ingdom.
ii . Physical Eligibility :-
Every 
candidate should be of sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform
the duties of the post.
iii .Other Qualifications :-
(a) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b)  a pplicants shall be of an excellent character.
(c) Only if the applicant has fulfilled all the required qualifications as on 31 st  of d ecember, 2024 he /she
will be treated as fulfilling the qualifications required for sitting the Competitive Examination for
making recruitment for the service.
02.  Age : -
 i . Minimum a ge limit  : -  Not less than 21 years
 ii . Maximum a ge limit : -  Not more than 35 years
( a ccordingly only those who have born on or before 31.12.2003 or whose date of birth has been fallen on 
31.12.1989 or thereafter are eligible to apply for this post.)
Note : -  i . a ny person who holds a priesthood of any religious sect will not be permitted to sit this examination. 
 ii . a ny candidate who is awaiting for results of an examination related to the d egree may not sit for this examination. 
However, a person who has passed the Degree related to the above Qualifications may be permitted to sit for 
this examination at the event of submitting an official letter obtained from the Registrar of the University to 
prove that he / she has completed the 
d egree as at 31 st of d ecember, 2024. 
03. Conditions of Service :
 i . Salary  - t he c onsolidated salary scale of this post is mentioned below. 
Salary Scale as per the Public a dministration c ircular No. 03/2016 is Rs. 34,605-10 x  660-11 x  755-15 x  
930 – 63,460/- of the category of salary of MN 5. 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
37
II. This post is permanent. You shall subject for the policy decisions to be made in future by the Government on
scheme of Pension.
III. The Candidates who may be selected will be appointed subjecting to three (03) year probationary period with
effect from the date of appointment.
IV. The Appointees shall appear before a medical examination conducted by a Government medical officer to
check the physical eligibility as to whether to serve in any part of the island or not.
V . a ppointees are abided to serve in any part of the island.
V i. y our attention is being drawn to the conditions in Procedural Rules in No. 2310/29 of the Public Service
commission and the general conditions related to the appointments made for the posts of Government Service
published at the beginning of Paragraph ( iia) in Part i of this Gazette.  
V ii. t his post will be governed as per the provisions in Sri Lanka Valuation Service Minutes published in the
Gazette Notification No. 2142/75 dated 27.09.2019.
04. m ethod of recruitment : -
Recruitments are made on the results of a Written competitive Examination and a general interview. interview will
be held for an equal number of applicants to be recruited as per the merit of the total marks of the applicants who 
have passed the written examination and eligible candidates will be selected. Marks will not be given at the interview. 
Scrutinizing the relevant eligibility will only be made. 
05. Examination Procedure :-
the competitive Examination for making recruitment is consisted of a Written Question paper. the details of the same
are mentioned below:
Subject 
No.
Name of Question Paper Duration
hours/ minutes
minimum marks 
to be obtained 
for passing the 
examination
maximum 
marks
01 General intelligence test and aptitude 
Question Paper 
2 Hours 40 100
General intelligence test and aptitude Question Paper
Multiple Choice Questions and Structured questions related to the mathematical and logical subjects are included in 
the paper.
Note :- 
this examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English media. the medium of examination will not be permitted 
to change subsequently.
(i) Marks will be deducted for illegible hand writings and grammatical mistakes.
(i)  t he director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration will issue admission cards
for the candidates applied for sitting the examination. However, receiving of admission cards shall not be
constituted as the fulfillment of eligibility to sit the examination.
(ii) Method of Evaluation :  a priority list will be prepared as per the marks selecting the candidates who have
secured 40% or more marks for the Question paper at the competitive Examination. Number of candidates
proportionate to the number of existing vacancies will be called for the General interview commencing from
the candidate who has obtained the highest marks among them.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
38
06.  b asis for the Selection :
t he candidates who have passed the Written Examination and acquired the eligibility at the i nterview will be selected
to offer the appointments for making the relevant recruitment subjecting to the number of vacancies. 
(1) Issuance of results :
 t he d irector General of the Sri Lanka i nstitute of d evelopment a dministration will hand over the Result 
Register prepared as per the merit of the total marks secured by candidates at the Written Examination to the 
c hief Valuer. Subsequent to informing the c hief Valuer that making appointment for the relevant post has been 
finalized, the Director General of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration will inform the results 
personally by post to all the applicants who sit for the examination. 
07. It is mandatory to complete all the qualifications related to the post on or before the closing date of applications for the
examination by every applicant.
08.  m ode of application :-
Specimen Application form :
(I) has been published at the end of this notification. The application should be prepared by the applicants in the
same medium of language in which the candidate intends to sit for the examination. Every part in the application
shall be completed by the applicant as per the given instructions and if any sections are not applicable write
the words "Not applicable" there. 
k eep in mind that leaving blank spaces in the application may result the
rejection of application. (The application shall be prepared using A4 sized paper as to appear Nos. 01 to 05 of
the Specimen application on the first page, the Nos. 06 to 11 on the second page and balance on the third page.).
i n preparing the application, name of the Examination shall be indicated in English language in addition to
Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in English in addition to t amil in t amil applications. i t will be useful to keep
a photocopy of the completed application.)
Closing Date of Applications  :
( ii )  a pplications shall be sent by registered post on or before 07 th  of february, 2025  to reach “ t he c hief Valuer,
Government Valuation House, No. 748, Maradana Road, Colombo 10’’. Late applications will be rejected. In
sending applications, “ o pen c ompetitive Examination for making recruitment to the post of a ssistant Valuer of 
c lass ii  Grade ii ” shall be indicated clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Examination fees
( iii ) Receipt, obtained making payment of Rs. 1000/- as the examination fees at any Branch of the Peoples’ Bank to
be credited to the Revenue Head No. 236100189026654 of the c hief Valuer of the d epartment of Government
Valuation shall be affixed on the application. Money orders or stamps will not be accepted for the Examination
fee and the fee paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination on any
reason. 
i t will be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant.
Applications of those who already in the Service.:
 (( i V)  a pplicants who are already serving in Government d epartments/ Boards/ c orporations etc. shall submit their 
applications through the Head of the d epartment or i nstitution in which they are serving. a pplicants are requested 
to submit their applications with sufficient time to the Heads of their Departments with a request to send their 
applications to reach the 
c hief Valuer of the d epartment of Government Valuation on or before 07.02.2025. 
a pplications shall not be sent in the name of the d irector General of the Sri Lanka i nstitute of d evelopment 
Administration or in the personal name of any other officer of the said Institution. 
Even the applications submitted through the Departments after the due date will be rejected. If the signature 
and the official frank of the Head of the relevant Department / Institution have not been placed in attesting the 
applications of the applicants who are serving for Government service, such applications will be rejected. 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
39
Attestation of  the applications : 
(V)  t he signature of the applicants already in the Government Service shall be attested by the relevant Head of the
Department or an officer authorized to do so. 
09. Admission Cards of Examination :
(I) On the assumption  that only those who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification
have applied, the d irector General of the Sri Lanka i nstitution of d evelopment a dministration will issue
Admission cards to the applicants in the prescribed age limits in the Gazette notification,  who have submitted
the duly completed applications along with the relevant receipts paying the examination fee before the closing
date, with the correct medium of language intend to sit for the examination, the signature of the applicant and
the attestation of signature, and the certificate of the Head of Department, only if applicable. Immediately
after the issuance of admission cards, the Sri Lanka 
i nstitution of d evelopment a dministration will publish a
newspaper advertisement mentioning the same.  i f an applicant has not received the a dmission c ards even after
two or three days from the date of publishing the a dvertisement, he/ she shall inform the Sri Lanka i nstitute
of d evelopment a dministration regarding the same as mentioned in the a dvertisement. t he name, address,
National i dentity c ard number of the applicant and the name of the examination applied for shall be mentioned
there. i f you are an applicant from outside of c olombo, it is more productive to send a letter of request to the
fax number mentioned in the advertisement along with the above details and a fax number to which a copy
of the admission card may be sent. It would be more effective to keep a copy of the completed application
form you kept with you, a copy of the receipt of the examination fee and the receipt of registration of the
application in order to verify any necessary information requested by the Sri Lanka 
i nstitution of d evelopment
a dministration.
Attestation of the Admission Card for the Examination : 
( ii )  t he signature of the applicants who are already in the Government service shall be attested by the Head of the
relevant Department or an officer authorized to do so. The signatures of other candidates on the application shall 
be attested by a  person authorized to attest them. t he attestor shall be a j ustice of the Peace, a c ommissioner 
of Oaths,  an Attorney at Law, a Notary Public, a Principal of a Government School, commissioned Officer 
of the Navy, Air force or Army, a Staff Grade officer holding a permanent post in the Government, a chief 
i ncumbent t hero of a Vihare or any other person who holds a responsible post in any other religious Sect. 
Admission for the Examination
( iii ) Every c andidate who sits the examination shall get attested his / her signature in the a dmission c ard and  shall
sit the examination  at the examination hall assigned. t he a dmission card in which  his / her signature had been
attested shall be handed over to the Supervisor of the Examination Hall. a  candidate who does not produce the
a dmission card will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
(IV) Applicants will not be informed of receiving the applications.  The Candidates are subject to the rules and
regulations stipulated by the d irector General of Sri Lanka i nstitute of d evelopment a dministration regarding
the holding of examination and the issuance of results. i f such rules and regulations are violated, he / she will
be subject to a penalty imposed by the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
Note :-  Issuance of an admission card for examination to a candidate shall not be constituted as fulfilment of all the 
qualifications requested by this notification either to sit the examination or to hold a post.
10.
Identity :- t he candidates shall prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of Examination.  a ny of the
following documents will be accepted for this purpose.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
40
(i)  National identity card
(ii)  Valid Passport
(iii)  Valid Sri Lankan driving License
the applicants who fail to produce one of the documents mentioned above will not be permitted to sit the examination. 
11. Penalty for providing false information :- the candidature of an applicant will be cancelled as per the rules and
regulations of this examination if it is found that he /she does not eligible before the examination, at the event of holding 
examination or after the examination. if it is found that a candidate has intentionally furnished false information or has
intentionally concealed any material fact or if it is proven at any time during his/her service that he/she was ineligible
to sit for this examination, he / she will be liable to immediate dismissal from service. 
the candidature of candidates
who have not duly fulfilled the requirements mentioned in this notification will be cancelled.
12. i f any other relevant fact that has not been covered by these regulations will be determined at the discretion of the chief
V aluer.
13. If there is any inconsistency or incompliance among the Sinhala, Tamil and English media notifications, the Sinhala
media notification shall prevail.
A.S.W.K. Nanayakkara,
 chief Valuer of Government.
Specimen Application f orm
Open Competitive Examination for making recruitment for the post of Assistant v aluer of Class II 
Grade II of Officer category  -2 of Field / Office  of the Valuation  Service of  Sri Lanka– 2024
N.B. : “Open Competitive Examination for making recruitment to the post of Assistant Valuer of Class II Grade II of Officer 
category  -2 of Field / Office  of the Valuation  Service of  Sri Lanka” shall be indicated clearly on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope in which the application is enclosed  and the application shall be sent by registered post to reach the address 
“
the chief Valuer of the Government, Government Valuation House, No. 748, Maradana Road, colombo 10”.
(for Office Use only)
the medium of language sit for the examination 
Sinhala – 2, tamil – 3,  English – 4
W rite the relevant number in the cage.)
(1) Name of applicant :
1.1 Name with initials  (W rite the initials after the name) : .......................................................................................
.............................................................................................................................................................................. 
(
in English Block letters – Eg. S iLV a, a.B.)
1.2 Name in full : 
……………………………………………………………………………........................................................
……………………………………………………………….……………....................................................... 
(
in English Block letters)

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
41
1.3  Name in full :    ………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………….…………………………………
(in Sinhala / tamil)  
(2) Permanent address : …………………………………………………………………………….……………  
        (in Sinhala / tamil)  ……………………………………………………………….…………………………
(in case of changing the address, inform it immediately.)  
 the address to send the admission card ( in English Block letters) :
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………….……………………………………………………
(3) Gender :
(W rite relevant number in the cage.)
(4) National identity card Number:
(5) Mobile telephone Number:
(6)  c ivil Status  : (Married  - 1, unmarried  - 2)
(W rite relevant number in the cage.)
(7) Race :  (Sinhalese -1, tamil – 2, i. tamil – 3, Muslim -4, other -5)
(W rite relevant number in the cage.)
(8)  d ate of Birth  :  y ear : Month : date :
(W rite relevant number in the cage.)
 age as at the closing date of applications :
    y ears  :                                 Months  : days :
(9) State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by decent or by registration.
(in case of registration, mention the details. )
(10) Educational / Professional Qualifications :
e xamination / Degree Effective Date University / Institution Subjects
Male  - 0     
Female  - 1

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
42
(1 1) Present occupation and the details of the post held, if any.
Post From To Annual Salary
(12) Have you been dismissed form service while holding a Government post?
(if so, give details)
(13)  i f there are any departmental disciplinary inquiries pending against you? ( if you are already in the Government
Service)
(14) Have you ever been convicted for any offence in a Court of Law ?
(15) Examination Fee (Original of the receipt shall be affixed)
i. Branch of Peoples Bank where the payment made: ……………………
ii. amount paid : …………………………………………………
iii. date of payment : ……………………………………………
iv . Receipt No. : …………………………………………………
(16) declaration of applicant: 
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am also aware that if
any particulars contained herein are found to be false, before selection, I am liable to be disqualified and to dismiss
from service without all rights if any  inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
I am subject to the rules and regulations stipulated by the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development
administration regarding the holding of examination and the issuance of results.
date : .............................. ..........................................
Signature of applicant
Affix the original of receipt of making payment of Examination fee as not to fall.  
(keep a photocopy with you.)

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
43
Attestation of the Signature of Applicant (Strike off the words inapplicable) : 
i, do hereby certify that Mr. / Mrs./ Miss. (Name in full) ………………………………………………. who 
submits this application is personally known to me, he / she has paid the prescribed examination fee, the receipt 
has been affixed hereon and he / she placed his / her signature in my presence on ……………… day of ……….. 
in 2025. 
 
...........................................................
Signature of the attestor 
Full Name of the attestor : ........................................................................
designation  : .......................................................................
address  : ………………………………………………
(Place the official frank.) 
date  : ………………………………………………
Recommendation of the Head of the institution if the applicant is in Government service / Provincial Government Service 
/ corporation of the Government.
i certify that Mr. / Mrs. / Miss ……………………………………………….. whose particulars are mentioned above is 
personally known to me, is serving in this …………………………. (Ministry / department / Government corporation), that 
there is no  any disciplinary inquiry pending against him / her,  that the receipt has been affixed hereon, and he / she placed 
her signature on …………..  in my presence.(Furthermore, I declare that I am subject to the rules and regulations stipulated 
by the 
director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration regarding the holding of examination and the 
issuance of results.)
He / She may be released from the service of this department / corporation if he / she is selected for making appoint in a 
post of Assistant Valuer of Class II Grade II of Officer category  -2 of Field / Office  of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service. 
...............................................................
Signature of the Head of the institution.  
Full name of the Head of institution  : ...........................................................................
designation  : ...........................................................................
Official Address : ...........................................................................
(Place the official frank.)
date  : ...........................................................................
01-60

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
44
 mINISTR y  Of E DuCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service – 2025
G ENER a L  public is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher 
Educators’ Service shall be conducted in the month of march 2025 in c olombo in accordance with the Service Minute of 
the Sri Lanka t eacher Educators’ Service No.1925/37 dated 28.07.2015 published in the extraordinary Gazette Notification 
of the d emocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
a pplication has been published on the website of d epartment of Examinations, Sri Lanka under “ o ur Services” 
of www.doenets.lk in “ o nline a pplications- Recruitment Exams/EB Exams” and applications can be submitted via online 
only. a cceptance of o nline a pplications is opened at 9.00am on the 10 th  of j anuary 2025  and is ended  at 9.00 p.m. on the 
14 th  of February 2025.  a fter submitting the application online, it should be downloaded and the relevant parts of the printed 
copy should be filled in by hand, the signature of the applicant should be authenticated, and together with the certificate of 
the Head of the concerned institution, should be sent by registered post to the d epartment of Examinations, Sri Lanka as to 
be received on or before the last date of close of applications.
Syllabus and other provisions relevant to this examination has been published under the schedule iii  of the Service 
Minute aforementioned. t he syllabus and other provisions are given below for the convenience of the applicants.
An officer can sit for the prescribed subjects of this Efficiency Bar Examination in the same sitting or in separate 
sittings.
02. Examination Procedure – Written t est
Subject 
Number
Subject Marks Duration (Hours)
01 General Management and Establishments Affairs 100 1 1/2
02 Financial Regulations 100 1 1/2
03 Education Reforms and Education Law 100 02
04 c ommunication Skills 100 02
03. t he Syllabus
Subject 
Number
Subject Content of the Subject
01 General Management and 
Establishments Affairs 
With special reference to c hapters i , ii , iii , i V , V , V ii , V iii , ix , xii , xiii , xi V , 
xxi V , xx V iii , xxx  and xxxi  of the Establishments c ode 
With special reference to c hapter i , iii , i V , V , Vi , Viii , x  and xii  of the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service c ommission. 
02 Financial Regulations With special reference to c hapters i , ii , V , Viii , xii  and xi V of Part 1 of the 
Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka
03 Education Reforms and 
Education Law
c andidates are expected to be familiar with the following o rdinances and 
Parliament a cts.
i. Education Reforms 1972 (New a pproach to Education)
ii. White Paper on Education 1981

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
45
iii. First Report of the National Education commission 1992
iv . New Education Reforms 1997
v. New Education Reforms implemented since 1999 (Primary, Secondary
& G. c. E. (a/L))
vi. the Public Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968 amended by the Public
Examinations ( amendment) act, No. 15 of 1976
vii. the National institute of Education act, No. 28 of 1986
viii. the colleges of Education act, No. 30 of 1986
ix. the National Education commission act, No. 19 of 1991
x. the National authority on teacher Education act, No. 32 of 1997
xi. the constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference to the 13th
amendment and chapter 3 on Fundamental Rights
xii. conventions enforced by Provincial councils relevant to Education.
04 communication Skills this is to assess the English Language competence of the following 
subject areas.
- English Grammar:-
tense and Number , Sentences (Simple/ compound/ complex/ compound
Complex), Relative Clauses, Adjectives and Adverbs, Prepositions.
- Listening and Speaking Skills: -
General Greetings and introduction, Giving and getting information,
advising, Suggesting and expressing opinions, telephone skills,
interviewing skills, Meeting.
- Writing Skills: -
internal modes of communication, Formal correspondence skills,
writing descriptions Explanations, Summary Writing Skills, Report
Writing Skills
N.B.:- Candidates are required to obtain at least 40% marks on each paper for a pass in the Efficiency Bar Examination. A 
candidate may pass the examination with one or more subjects at a single sitting.
Note:- Requirement to obtain a pass in the subject of English Language under this Efficiency Bar Examination will be 
exempted when a candidate has followed the degree or Post Graduate diploma or Post Graduate degree in the medium of 
English. 
04. Language mediums of the Examination
4.1  t his Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums . the language medium applied for the
Examination cannot be altered later.
4.2 The efficiency bar examination should be completed in the same medium of language in which the candidate 
qualified to gain entry into the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators service. 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
46
4.3  i f a candidate is found to be appearing in the examination through a medium to which he is not entitled, his/her 
candidature shall be cancelled. 
05. online examination application should be completed in English language only. after the department of Examination
receives both the soft copy made online and the printout sent by registered post, the soft copy and the printed copy
shall be verified and accepted by the department as a valid application. The mobile phone number used to access
the system will be notified by a SMS or an e -mail  that it is accepted/ it is not accepted as valid application by the
department. Before completion of the online application, download the instructions for applying for the exam. Follow
the instructions carefully while filling the application form. Any amendment made in the application after receipt of
hard copy shall not be considered as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications shall be rejected without a prior
notice. 
applications received after the closing date shall not be accepted.
 if candidates with special needs appear for this examination, it must be mentioned in the application and copies of
relevant medical certificates must be submitted with the application.
06.  t his Examination will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations in colombo and the candidates are
bound to follow the Rules and Regulations imposed by him.
07. Punishments for providing false information – Accurate information should be furnished carefully in filling the
application. the candidature of a certain candidate will be cancelled in any instance before, during or after the
examination if it is revealed that he/she is not qualified and has furnished false information according to the provisions
related to this Examination.
08.
 applications should be sent through registered post to reach “ the commissioner General of Examinations, institutional
Examinations organization Branch, department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P. o. Box 1503, colombo on or before
14 th February 2025 The applications sent after this date will be rejected. The caption, “Efficiency Bar Examination for
Officers in the Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service – 2025” should be mentioned on the top left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing the applications.
09.
The candidate should substantiate his/her identity to the supervisor for each subject that he/she sits at the Examination
Hall. For that purpose, any of the followings will be accepted.
i. National identity card,
ii. V alid Passport,
iii. V alid driving License.
Similarly , the candidates should enter the Examination Hall without covering their face and ears, in a manner the 
identity of the candidate can be confirmed. Furthermore, candidates who refuse to substantiate his/her identity will 
not be permitted to enter the Examination Hall. 
in addition, candidates should keep their face and ears uncovered 
from the moment they enter the Examination Hall until they leave the Hall after completing the examination enabling 
the examination authorities to identify the candidate. If any objection in this regard is made, the candidate will not be 
permitted to sit the examination. Nevertheless, results will not be issued for such candidates who fail to substantiate 
their identity. 
10. With the presumption that only the candidates fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification have applied
for the Examination, admissions will be issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations to the candidates who
have submitted duly perfected applications with the relevant receipt obtained after paying the prescribed Examination
fee on or before the closing date of applications. A notification on the issuance of admissions will be published by the
Department of Examinations in newspapers and in the Official Website of the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka
immediately after issuing admissions to candidates. A notification, should inform it to the Department of Examinations
of Sri Lanka as mentioned in the advertisement. Full name of the candidate, the address of the candidate and the National 
identity card number and the title of the Examination applied for should be indicated in making such inquiries. if the
candidate resides outside Colombo, it will be effective to fax a request letter along with such details of the candidate
to the fax number mentioned in the notification including a fax number of the candidate through which the candidate

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
47
can obtain a copy of the admission via fax. in inquiring so, it will be useful to get prepared to produce the copy of the 
application kept with the candidate and copy of the relevant receipt if the payment of examination fees is applicable and 
receipt issued for sending the application by registered post, if it is necessary to substantiate any information requested 
by the 
department of Examinations. issuance of an admission to a candidate should not be deemed as an acceptance 
that he/she has fulfilled qualifications for sitting the examination. 
11. The complaints lodged by the candidates who fail to fulfil the requirements mentioned in the Para 11 above will not be
entertained.
12. t he signature of the candidate should have been attested in the application as well as in the admission for the examination. 
a candidate in Public service / Provincial Public Service / Public corporation should certify his/her signature from
the Head of the Institution or from an officer authorized by the Head of the institution. A candidate should hand over 
the admission; in which his/her signature has been attested, to the Supervisor of the Examination on the first day of 
sitting the examination. Any candidate who fails to submit his / her duly filled admission is not permitted to sit the 
examination. 
13.
Examination fees:
(a)  t he amount paid for the examination shall not be refunded or transferred for any other examination for any reason.
(b)  t he candidates sitting this examination should pay examination fees on the following basis.
(i) Fees will not be charged for the first sitting.
(ii) Examination Fees as mentioned below will be charged for each sitting   subsequent to the first sitting.
Full Examination fee  Rs.500/-
Fee per one subject Rs.250/-
While paying the examination fees, the payment should be made only under the following fee payment methods 
provided through the online system.
i. By any Bank credit card
ii. By any Bank debit card with the Facility of internet transactions
iii.  o nline Banking Method of Bank of ceylon
iv . a ny Branch of the Bank of ceylon
Note:
(a) instructions on how to make payment through the above methods have been published in  the website under the
technical instructions relevant to the Examination Posted under instructions.
(b) The receipt of payment  shall be notified by means of a short message ( SMS) or by an e-mail. The full amount of
examination fee shall be paid and applications with under or over payment of examination fee shall be rejected. The
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka  shall not be held responsible for any short comings encountering in the
payment of examination fees through the above mentioned payment methods.
14.  a result sheet of all the candidates who sat the examination will be forwarded to the Secretary of the Ministry of
Education by the commissioner General of Examinations. the result sheets will not be personally issued to the
candidates by the commissioner General of Examinations.
15. The Candidates are subject to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination in relation
to the conduct of the examination. it is informed that he/she will have to undergo any punishment imposed by the
commissioner General of Examinations in case such rules or regulations are violated.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
48
16. In case of any inconsistency prevails among language texts of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail in such an instance.
17. The decision of the Secretary of Education shall be final and conclusive pertaining to any matter, which is not covered
by this notification.
Nalaka Kaluwewa, 
Secretary .
on 02nd in the month of j anuary, 2025
Ministry of Education, Higher Education and V ocational Education,
isurupaya, Battaramulla.
Specimen Application f orm
Eff ICIENC y bAR  Ex A m INATION  f OR  Off ICERS  IN  G RADE  III  O f T h E  S RI  L AN k A  T EAC h ER  
EducaTOrS’ SErVIcE – 2025 
applications should be sent by registered Post through the Head of the institution to reach commissioner General of 
Examinations, institutional Examinations organization Branch, department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P. o. Box 1503, 
colombo. ( the title of the Examination should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope)
 The Medium of Language through which the Officer sits the Examination :- Sinhala – 2     
 tamil    - 3
English – 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. (i)  Name in Full: ( in English Block capitals) ……………………………………………………
(Ex: HER atH Mudiya NSELaGE SaMaN kuMaRa GuNaW aRdHaNa)
(ii) Name indicating the last name first and the initials at the end (In English Block Capitals):
…………………………………………………………………………………………………...
(Ex: GuNaW aRdHaNa,  H.M.S.k.)
(iii) Name in Full ( in Sinhala/ tamil) …………………………………………………………....
02. (i)   National college of Education/ teachers’  college/ teachers’  centre wherein the candidate
is serving and its address ( in English Block capitals) the admissions are referred to this 
address:……………………………………………………………………………………………
(iii) Personal address ( in English Block capitals): ………………………………………………
03. telephone Number :
(i) Mobile telephone
(ii) Fixed telephone
04    (i) National identity card Number:       

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
49
(ii) Sex:   Male     - 0
Female - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. (i) date of birth:     y ear: Month : date :
(ii) designation: -……………………………………………….. 
(write i n the relevant cage)
06. The subjects for which the candidate sits should be clearly indicated with the Subject Number and the Subject
mentioned under (a) in para two of the notification.
Subject Subject No.
07. Whether sat the full or part of the Examination before and if so, mention the subjects and the year of sitting the
Examination and the mediums.
Subject Year Medium Index Number
08. (i)        are you a candidate with special needs ? ( y es/No)
(ii)       if yes, please state the nature of such special needs:-…………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………
09. i do hereby declare that the information mentioned above is accurate and i am entitled to sit this Examination in
the medium of Language mentioned as per para 04 of this Gazette notification. I have affixed receipt herein obtained
after paying the examination fee.  Further, 
i do declare that i agree to be liable to the rules and regulations imposed by
the commissioner General of Examinations pertaining to the conduct of the Examination and the issuance of results.
 …….…………………..  ……………………,
           date  Signature of the applicant.       
10. Attestation of Signature
         i certify that, Mr./Mrs./Ms. .............................................................. serving in my National college of Education / teachers’  
college / teachers’  center is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature before me on…………………. 
and he/she is exempted from the examination fee /has paid the due examination fee and affixed the receipt here. 
 .................................................................,
Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
(Immediate Staff officer) 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
50
Name  : ………………………………
designation  : ………………………………
ad dress  : ………………………………
date  : ………………………………
11. c ommissioner General of Examinations,
department of Examination, Sri Lanka
I do hereby certify that the candidate described  above is qualified to sit this examination and he/she is eligible to sit this 
examination in the medium of Language indicated by him/her as per the para 04 of the Gazette Notification.  Further, 
I certify that the candidate is exempted from paying the examination fee/ has paid the specified examination fee and 
affixed the receipt obtained after the payment of the Examination fees.
………………………………………………………….................
Signature of the President of National college of Education / Principal of the teachers’  college / Manager of the 
teachers’  centre.
designation: ……………………………………………………….
(Substantiate with the Official Frank) 
        (delete the words not applicable)
01-194
The Chi T h T ha a dvan C ed Psy C hologi C al sT udies oP en i ns T i T u T e of s ri l anka
( a rrangements have been made to incorporate under the Parliament a ct, Bill n o. 105 of 2022)
ExEcutivE Diploma in businEss planning anD labour law 2025/2026 
(aDDitional intakE)
Ex Ecuti VE   diploma in Business Planning and Labour Law of the chiththa advanced Psychological Studies open 
institute of Sri Lanka can be applied to those who are university students, after a/L students, who are studying in the 
business fields, Government or private sector employers, entrepreneurs, expect to expatriate or who are interested in business 
management and labour laws who have completed the following qualifications.
Qualifications : g. c. E. (a/l) 3s passes in any stream ; 
or
Acceptable other educational and professional qualifications by the governing council institute. 
Total Credits : 30
Semesters : 2 semesters
Nature of Course : Online (Open and Distance Learning)
Teaching Methods : live lectures, all tutorials and recorded lectures are delivered
Medium : English or Sinhala
Course Duration : 12 months

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
51
Course fees and Student Registration Fees : The registration fee is 1,000.00, and the course fee is Rs. 36,000.00. Rs. 
1,000.00 must be paid while registering for the Diploma. Rs. 36,000.00 can be paid at once or in 12 installments.
To Apply for the Course : The applicants should send their,
1. Photographs of a document that can verify their identity (National Identity Card/ Driving license, Passport);
2. G.C.E. A/L examination result sheet and other educational and professional certificate photographs;
3. Self-coloured clear photograph.
to 071 913 6683 ( w hats app) number
The last date for enrolling for the course : 27/01/2025
For more information : Can inquire through the phone number 081 316 9800 at Office hours from 8.30 a.m. 4.30 p.m.
Senior Registrar, 
The Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open 
 institute of sri lanka.
01-66/1
_____________________________________
T he Chi T h T ha a dvan C ed Psy C hologi C al sT udies oP en i ns T i T u T e of s ri l anka
( a rranagements have been made to incorporate under the Parliament a ct, Bill n o. 105 of 2022)
ADvANCED CERTIfICATE IN ACADEmIC, HEALTH AND PROfESSIONAL RESEARCH mETHODOLOGy 
2025 (main intakE)
THE Advanced Certificate in Academic, Health and Professional Research methodology of the Chiththa Advanced 
Psychological Studies Open Institute of Sri Lanka can be applied to university students, after A/L students, who are studying 
in any academic field, Government or private sector employers, expect to expatriate, health sector employers or who are 
interested in making new knowledge and research methodology who have completed the following qualifications.
Qualifications : 
g. c. E. (a/ l) 3 s passes in any stream 
or
Acceptable other educational and professional qualifications by the governing council institute. 
Nature of Course : Online (Open and Distance Learning)
Teaching Methods : Line lectures. all tutorials and recorded lectures are delivered.
Medium : English or Sinhala
Course Duration : 06 months
Course fees and Student Registration Fees : The registration fee is 1,000.00, and the course fee is Rs. 18,000.00. Rs. 
1,000.00 must be paid while registering for the Diploma. Rs. 18,000.00 can be paid at once or in 06 installments.
To Apply for the Course : The applicant should send their,
1.
Photographs of a document that can verify their identity (National Identity Card/ Driving license, Passport);
2. G.C.E. A/L examination result sheet and other educational and professional certificate photographs;
3. Self-coloured clear photograph.
to 071 913 6683 ( w hats app) number

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'01'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.01.2025
52
________________________________
NATIONAL  INSTIT uTE  Of SOCIAL  DEv ELOP mENT
(ministry of Rural Development, Social Security and Community Empowerment)
c a LL i NG  aPPL icatio NS  F o R  Bac HEL o R  o F  Socia L  Wo R k Ho N ou RS  
dEGREE  PR o GR a M  - a cad EM ic yE a R  2024/2025
tHE  Natio nal Institute of Social Development is an institution of higher education that offers degreesd approved under 
Section 25 a  of the u niversity a ct, No. 16 of 1978 approved by the u niversity Grants c ommission. i t is also one of the 
leading institutions of higher education in Sri Lanka offering social work professional education. Currently, this institute is 
functioning under the Ministry of Rural d evelopment, Social Security and c ommunity Empowerment are invited for the 
full-time four-year Bachelor of Social Work Honours degree program offered by this institute.
Entry Requirements:
In the year 2021, 2022 and 2023, only applicants who have met the minimum qualifications for admission to the university in 
any subject stream in the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination can apply for this course. In order to apply for a degree in the medium 
of English, it is mandatory to have obtained at least a credit pass (C) in the English language subject in the G.C.E. (O/L) 
examination or in the General English subject in the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.
The medium of instruction : Sinhala/ 
t amil/ English
Section process :
Shortlisted candidates will have to appear for a selection written test conducted by the medium they have applied to pursue 
the course. 
c andidates who qualify for the written test will be called for an interview. and selection will be made based on 
the merit of the written test and the interview. t he selection written test will be conducted at c olombo or at the provincial 
level on the nearest day after the last date of application. t he selection written test consists of a general knowledge and 
aptitude test.
Course fees : t his four-year full-time degree course is conducted free of charge and charges only Rs. 35,000 as registration 
fee.
how to Apply :
Application should be submitted online only from the official website of the National Institute of Social Development (www.
nisd.ac.lk)
Last date for submission of applications : 10 february 2025
Registrar,
National i nstitute of Social d evelopment,
Liyanagemulla,
Seeduwa.
t el : 0112882506
Email : registrar@nisd.ac.lk
01-183
PR i N t E d  at  t HE   dEP a R t MEN t  o F   Go VERNMEN t  P R i N ti NG ,  S R i  La N ka.
The last date for enrolling for the course : 08/02/02025
For more information : Can inquire through the phone number 081 316 9800 at Office hours from 8.30 a.m. 4.30 p.m.
Senior Registrar, 
The Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open Institute of Sri Lanka.
01-66/2