

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of June 18, 2010
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 21.06.2010)
THIDORA-THEATRE INSTITUTE FOR DISABILITY
ORIENTED RESEARCH AND ADVOCACY
(INCORPORATION)
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Sunil Handunnetti, M. P . for
Colombo District
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
A
BILL
to incorporate the Thidora-Theatre Institute for Disability Oriented
Research and Advocacy
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Thidora-Theatre Institute for Disability Oriented
Research and Advocacy (Incorporation)
1
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  THIDORA -THEATRE  INSTITUTE  FOR
D ISABILITY ORIENTED  RESEARCH  AND  ADVOCACY
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Thidora-Theatre Institute for Disability Oriented Research
and Advocacy ” has been formed for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters connected
with the said Association according to the rules agreed to by
its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Thidora-Theatre
Institute for Disability Oriented Research and Advocacy
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2010.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as are now members of the
“Thidora-Theatre Institute for Disability Oriented Research
and Advocacy” (hereinafter referred to as “the Institution”)
and such other persons as shall hereinafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall
be a body corporate with perpetual succession, under the
name and style of “Thidora-Theatre Institute for
Disability Oriented Research and Advocacy” (hereinafter
referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may
sue and be sued in all courts, with  full power and authority to
have and  to use a common seal and to alter the same at its
will and pleasure.
2—PL 004927—80  (06/2010)
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Thidora-
Theatre
Institute for
Disability
Oriented
Research and
Advocacy.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

Thidora-Theatre Institute for Disability Oriented
Research and Advocacy (Incorporation)
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote and enhance the creativity of the
disabled and disadvantaged in Sri Lanka and to
facilitate their integration into the Sri Lankan
society ;
(b) to promote the self respect for the disabled and
desadvantage amongst the Sri Lankan society ;
(c) to act against discriminations against the disabled
and disadvantaged in Sri Lanka and to intervene
in drafting and implementing laws for their
protection ; and
(d) to collaborate with other organizations having
similar objectives to those of the Corporation
whether in Sri Lanka or abroad.
4.   (1) The management, control and administration of the
affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of
this Act and of the rules of the Corporation, administered by
a Board of Management consisting of such number of office
bearers as may be provided for in such rules and elected in
accordance therewith.
(2) The founder member of the Institution Mr. Rohana
Deva Perera shall be the Chairman of the Board of Directors
for life.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtherance
of the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, and
subject to the rules of Corporation, to open, operate and close
bank accounts, to borrow or raise money with or without
security, to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest
General
objects of
the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
powers of
the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Thidora-Theatre Institute for Disability Oriented
Research and Advocacy (Incorporation)
3
its funds and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers and
servants are required for the purpose of achieving the objects
of the Corporation.
6. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
01st April to 31st March.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by a qualified auditor appointed by the Corporation.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka or any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountant of Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the  Corporation from time to
time at any general meeting of the Corporation and by the
votes of not less than two-thirds of the members present and
voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act or any other written law, for the admission, withdrawal
or expulsion of members, the election of the office-bearers
for the conduct of the duties of the office-bearers, agents,
officers and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure to
be followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
5
10
15
20
25
30
Audit of
accounts.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Thidora-Theatre Institute for Disability Oriented
Research and Advocacy (Incorporation)
4
and the Board of Management and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may at
a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
8. The money and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objectives as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
loan, bonus, or otherwise, by way of profit to the members
of the Corporation.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being  of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Institution existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation, and all debts due to
subscriptions, fees and contributions payable to the
Association on that day, shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
11.    The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
the Corporation and it shall not be affixed to any instrument
whatsoever, except in the presence of the Chairman and one
of the two Directors appointed by the Board of Management
who shall sign their names to the  instrument in token of their
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
Debts due
by and
payable to
the
Corporation.
Application
of income
and property
of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Thidora-Theatre Institute for Disability Oriented
Research and Advocacy (Incorporation)
5
12. If upon the winding up or the dissolution of the
Corporation there remains after the satisfaction of all its
debts and liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property
shall not be distributed among the members of the
Corporation, but shall be given or transferred to some other
institution or institutions having objects similar to those of
the Corporation and which is or are by its or their prohibited
from distributing any income or property among its or their
members.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of
the rights of
the Republic
and others.
Property
remaining
on the
dissolution
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Thidora-Theatre Institute for Disability Oriented
Research and Advocacy (Incorporation)
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.