

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
541
541
wxl 1"598 - 2009 wfm%a,a 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'04'17
No. 1,598 – FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 544
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 549
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th April, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th April,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
542
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
543
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) St andard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
544
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 18th May, 2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/3A, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th March, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called Applications should be sent
01. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths in Aluthkade Division General, District Secretariat, Colombo 12
02. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths in New Basar Division General, District Secretariat, Colombo 12
03. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths in Maradana Division General, District Secretariat, Colombo 12
04. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths in Modara Division General, District Secretariat, Colombo 12
05. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births District Secretary/Additional Registrar
and Deaths in Kotahena Division General, District Secretariat, Colombo 12
04-314

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
545
BUDDHASRA V AKA  BHIKSU  UNIVERSITY  – ANURADHAPURA
Post  of  Mahopadhyaya
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the qualified Bhiksus for the Post of Mahopadhyaya of the Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University
in Anuradhapura established under the Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University, Act, No. 26 of 1996.
01. Holding a Postgraduate Degree in Buddhist Studies from a recognized University
02. Proficient in Oriental languages.
03. A Bhiksu who has completed 20 years after Upasampadha with a good track record in Vinaya.
The Mahopadhyaya shall be appointed for  a 3 year period and shall be a full time officer of the University and shall be the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Academic Officer. The Mahopadhyaya shall be solely responsible for the maintenance of disciplin e
within the University and to give effect and/or ensure that effect is given to the decisions of the Senate in respect of academic matters and
of the Council in respect of administrative matters. The prospective candidate should not exceed 62 years of age on 7th July, 2 009.
Mahopadhyaya shall hold office for a period of 3 years or completion 65 years of age which ever is earlier.
The Mahopadhyaya shall be entitled to a monthly salary and other relevant allowances approved by the Government. If the
prospective candidate is serving in the University system, Government Service, Corporations or Statutory  Boards at present, he  should
forward his application through the Head of the respective institution along with a letter stating that he could be released from his present
post if he is selected. This clause does not apply to the Bhiksus of the Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University. Residential facilitie s would be
provided within the University premises.
Applicants should forward their applications with the curriculum vitae and a mission (proposals) statement to be implemented
during 03 year period for the development of the University. Applications should be forwarded under registered cover to the Reg istrar/
Secretary of the Council, Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University, Nandana Mawatha, Anuradhapura to be reached on or before 20th April,
2009. “The post of Mahopadhyaya” should be written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope.
Registrar/Secretary to the Council.
Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University,
Nandana Mawatha,
Anuradhapura,
18th March, 2009.
04-326
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
AirWomen Vacancies
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Air Force for Airwomen in the trades given below :-
1. ( a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :–
Nursing Assistants - Regular Passes in 06 subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination at not more
Dental Assistants - Regular than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including an Ordinary pass in English Language and Credit passes in
Sinhala/Tamil language, Mathematics, Science and one other subject.
Having three passes at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in the streams
of Biology/Combined Mathematics/Chemistry/Physics/Agriculture
Science in one sitting is a qualification to follow advance training.
Police - Regular Passes in 06 subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination at not more than
two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not considered)
including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
546
Musician - Regular Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more
(Dancing/V ocalist) than two sittings (additional and optional subjects not considered)
including an Ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language.
Uniform Out Fitter - Volunteer Sat for G . C. E. (O/L) Examination and a minimum of one year working
experience in any Garment related field in cutting, stitching, over
locking and pattern designing.
(b) Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfil the following General Conditions for enlistment to the Sri Lanka Regular/
Volunteer Air Force :–
(1) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(2) Age : Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years as at 20th July, 2009 (Regular) ;
Not less than 18 years and not more than 25 years as at 20th July, 2009 (Volunteer) ;
(3) Height : 5 feet 4 inches and above ;
(4) Weight : BMI = 
Weight (kg) < 25
Height (m)2
(5) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(6) Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
(7) Civil Status :
(a) Regular.– Candidates must be unmarried. (Airwomen are not allowed to marry until the completion of two years
from the date of enlistment and until one year after the completion of the Basic Trade Training Course and which
ever is later).
(b) Volunteer.– Candidates must be unmarried. (Airwomen are not allowed to marry until the completion of two years
from the date of enlistment).
2. Candidates who do not posses the required educational qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01(a) and (b) will
be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height and vision is b elow the
standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with effect from the date
of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the selected trade. They will be required to perform combat duties
and any type of duty, day and night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement :
Regular.– Selected candidates will be enlisted to the Third Class of the rank of Aircraftswoman in the Regular Air Force and shall
be required to serve for 12 years in which five years will have to be served continuously whilst serving a further 07 years in the Regular
Air Force (Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airwomen to extend for further service on completion  of five
years of service.
Volunteer.– Selected candidates will be enlisted to the Third Class of the rank of Aircraftswoman in the Volunteer Air Force and
shall be required to serve for 05 years. The period of the original enlistment of an Airwoman may be extended for further period of 5 years
on each occasion up to the maximum age limit of fifty (50) years.
6. Official Language Requirements.– The selected candidates must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government
of Sri Lanka.
7. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Pay rate.– The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airwomen shall be as follows :
Aircraftswoman - Rs. 166,560 - 7 x 1,440 - 19 x 1,800 - Rs. 210,840 per annum.
Leading Aircraftswoman - Rs. 170,880 - 4 x 1,440 - 19 x 1,800 - Rs. 210,840 per annum.
Corporal - Rs. 175,200 - 1 x 1,440 - 10 x 1,800 - 9 x 2,520 - Rs. 217,320 per annum.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
547
Sergeant - Rs. 180,240 - 3 x 1,800 - 9 x 2,520 - 3 x 3,480 - Rs. 218,760 per annum.
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 183,840 - 1 x 1,800 - 9 x 2,520 - 3 x 3,480 - Rs. 218,760 per annum.
Warrant Officer - Rs. 211,800 - 13 x 3,480 - Rs. 257,040 per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated pay scale applicable to airwomen. Increments in promotions will
be based in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay sc ale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances - Rs. 4,500 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance - Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Enhanced allowance - Rs. 3,900 per month for those serving in operational areas.
(4) Enhanced allowance - Rs. 2,400 per month for those serving in the Jaffna Peninsula (Rs. 80 will be paid for each
working day).
(5) Incentive allowances.- After completion of 05 years service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(6) Ration allowance - Rs. 8,915.40 per month for living out Airwomen. (Free messing for living - in Airwomen).
(7) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(8) Travelling.– Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (For Airwomen, Husband and Children). One set of
railway warrants per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in Airwomen.
(9) Disturbance allowance.– When proceeding on duty outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/unmarried).
(10) Qualification pay.– For personnel who have qualified in special courses or possess qualifications, which are of
special value to the Service. (Up to maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Good Conduct Badge pay.–  Paid to personnel whose behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(12) Uniform upkeep allowances Rs. 170 per month.
(13) Re-engagement pay.– Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300 per month during the period of re-engagement.
(14) Medical facilities.– Provided through Air Force expense for Airwomen and their families.
(15) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T. B. buses for living-out Airwomen within a radius of 30 miles
(48 km).
(16) Following rent allowance are payable to married Airwomen not in occupation of Government married quarters
Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(17) Instructional pay  : (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(18) Other allowance.– (Separation and overseas etc.) will be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(19) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended from
time to time. All airwomen are contributors to the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rate
of contributions are as per Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
8. Instructions to Applicants :-
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicants own hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages
of the application should be filled with much details as possible. Applications should be sent by registered post
addressed to "Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda" so as to reach there not later than
1200 noon on 30th April, 2009. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked "Application for
Airwomen" on the top left corner. Applications received at Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda after closing date
and time and not in accordance with the requirements of this notification and not in registered post will not be
considered.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interview or
when called upon to do so :–
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate issued for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
548
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications required.
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training and or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution will be
an added advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the principal of the last school attended and
the other from the responsible person who has the know of the applicant for more than two years or from the
present employer (If employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and cadeting etc.
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when required to do so will not be considered.
(e) No original documents or copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
9. Interviews will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force Station Ekala. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be required
to appear for an interview at their own expense before an Air Force Recruiting Board. Such candidates will be informed individually of the
date, time and place.
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews, she is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who
do not have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of the accepted identification. However, no candidates wil l be
enlisted with out the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected according to merit order.
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt
to influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidates.
13. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after the selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
W. D. R. M. J. G
OONETILEKE,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR AIRWOMEN IN THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
01. Full Name :––––––––––. (According to National Identity Card)
02. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
03. Applied Trade :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address :––––––––––.
05. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
06. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :––––––––––.
07. District :––––––––––.
08. Electorate :––––––––––.
09. G. S. Division :––––––––––.
10. Telephone Number :––––––––––.
11. Date of Birth :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
549
12. Married or Single :––––––––––.
13. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :––––––––––.
14. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
15. G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
16. Any special qualifications for the post (Eg.- Technical, Training and Experience etc.) :––––––––––.
17. Details of special achievements in sports :––––––––––.
18. Other achievements of note at school or with outside organizations :––––––––––.
19. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police give details :––––––––––.
20. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military Court ? If so, give details :––––––––––.
21. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
22. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :––––––––––.
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
04–453
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  &  LAND  DEV ELOPMENT
SRI  LANKA  SURVEY  DEPARTMENT
Examination for the Issue of  Surveyor General’s
Certificate as Authorized Draughtsmen - 2009
THE examination for the issue of Surveyor General’s certificate to
practice as an Authorized Draughtsman will be held in Colombo.
The examination will be in two parts:
Part I - Preparation of Co-ordinate Sheet
Part II - Plan work.
2. Part  I of the examination will be held on 20th  June 2009 and
Part II on 22nd and 23rd  August 2009. Candidates who fail Part I
will not be allowed to sit for Part II. Candidates should pass both
Part I and Part II at the same examination to qualify for the award
of the Surveyor General’s Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman.
3. Candidates are required to satisfy me that:-
(a) They can prepare a co-ordinate sheet from field notes
and co-ordinate a survey traverse;
(b) They can plot a plan  accurately  from field notes, both
by protractor and from Co-ordinates  and  compute extents
correctly.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
550
4. Applications for the examination must be prepared as per
specimen below and sent under registered post to "Senior
Superintendent of Surveys (Examination), Institute of  Surveying
and Mapping, Diyatalawa" accompanied by a fee of Rs.300.
Payment by cash may be made to the Institute of Surveying and
Mapping, Diyatalawa or by Money orders should be made payable
to the "Senior Deputy Survey General (Survey Training Institute)"
and post office Diyatalawa. Attach the original receipt or the original
money order. (Please do not paste the receipt or money order to the
application). Remittance by stamps and cheques will not be
accepted. The envelope should be labeled as "Examination for the
Issue of Surveyor General’s Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman
- 2009" on the top left hand corner.
5. Examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
6. Applications closing on 25th May 2009. Applications will
not be accepted after that.
7.  Drawing papers and co-ordinate sheets will be supplied at
the examination hall. However, candidates should bring their own
drawing instruments, mathematical tables for computation of
coordinates and all other material they require. Use of non-
programmable scientific calculators will be allowed with the
permission of the Supervisor at the examination hall.
8. (i) Every candidate should prove his/her identity to the
satisfactions of the Supervisor by the production of any one of the
following documents :-
   (a) An Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
registration of  persons;
  (b) A valid Passport.
  (c) Any certificate, license or other document which
embodies a photograph of the holder and issued within
three years of the date of examination on the authority of a
Government Department.
 (ii) No candidate for the examination shall be entitled to be
examined unless he / she furnished proof of his/ her identity required
by paragraph 8 (i ).
9.  This examination will be held under the metric system.
S.M.W. F
ERNANDO,
Surveyor General.
Surveyor General’s Office,
P.O. Box 506,Colombo 05,
31st March, 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
S
RI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
EXAMINATION FOR THE ISSUE OF SURVEYOR GENERAL’S CERTIFICATE  AS
AUTHORIZED DRAUGHTSMEN - 2009
                                                 Index No:
           (For office use)
(a) (i) Name with initials :- Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––.
(ii) Names  denoted by  initials :–––––––––.
(b)  Sex :–––––––––.
(c)  Designation :–––––––––.
(d)  Official address :–––––––––.
(e)  Permanent address :–––––––––.
(f)  Date of  birth :–––––––––.
(g)  Educational qualifications :–––––––––.
(h) Medium through which the candidate proposed to sit this
examination : Sinhala / Tamil / English :–––––––––.
(i)  Fees Paid (Rs) :–––––––––.
(j)  Money Order / Receipt No. :–––––––––.
      Office of Issue :–––––––––.
      Date :–––––––––.
( Attach  the  original  receipt  if  paid  to  Institute  of
Surveying  and  Mapping, Diyatalawa or the original money
order  if paid by money order.)
I do here by certify that above details are true and correct.
  –––––––––,
 Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
04–394
INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY  UNIVERSITY  OF
MORATUWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology
Course, 2009/2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for admission
to the National Diploma in Technology, 3-year fulltime Course
conducted by the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
The Course will be conducted within the University premises at
Moratuwa until it is moved to a new premises of the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa at Diyagama, Homagama.
General.– The National Diploma in Technology Course consists
of two years of academic study and one year of Industrial Training
and is conducted in English medium. The course is offered in the
following fields of study :
(a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I) :
(i) Marine Engineering Technology
(ii) Nautical Studies and Technology

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
551
(b) Other Fields of Courses (Set II) :
(i) Chemical Engineering Technology
(ii) Civil Engineering Technology
(iii) Electrical Engineering Technology
(iv) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
Technology
(v) Mechanical Engineering Technology
(vi) Polymer Technology
(vii) T extile and Clothing Technology.
Eligibility :
2.1 Age :
(a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on
31.12.2008.
(b) Applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2008 will
be given preference for admission to the Marine
Engineering Technology and Nautical Studies and
Technology Courses. A special medical test and
interview would also be conducted for selection of
students to Marine Engineering and Nautical Studies
Courses.
(c) Those who are fulltime registered students of any
University under the UGC (except the Open University
of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational Institute under the
Ministry of Higher Education are not eligible to apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications :
Applicants should have obtained passes in any three (03) of the
following subjects :
(i) Physics
(ii) Chemistry
(iii) Combined Mathematics
(iv) A dvanced Mathematics
at one and the same sitting of a G. C. E. (A/L) Examination conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2006
or 2007 or 2008.
3. Selection Criteria :
3.1 Admission to the Course :
The selection of students for admission will be based on
the performance at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination and the
aptitude test to be conducted by the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
From those who pass the aptitude test, selections will be
done in the merit order of G.C.E. (A/L) results, i.e., in the
order of z-scores. In the selection, 40% merit and 60%
district quota will be applied.
3.2 Field of Study :
Aptitude test marks together with the applicant's order
of preference for the field of study as indicated in the
field preference will be considered in the allocation of the
field of study.
Application Procedure :
4.1 Application form :
(i) Application should be made according to the
Specimen Form given in this Gazette Notification.
Specimen application will also be available in the
following Web address :
http://www.mrt.ac.lk/itum
(ii) Applications should be forwarded under
Registered Post  marked "NDT Admission
2009/2010"  on the top left hand corner of the
envelope and addressed to the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
Katubedda, Moratuwa.
(iii) Application should reach the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa
on or before the closing date for applications.
(iv) A self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth), should be enclosed along with the
application form.
(v) No copies or originals of the certificates should be
sent along with the application form. However,
the content of the application has to be certified as
indicated. (See cages 3, 4 and 5 in the form of
application.)
4.2 Field Preference :
(i) There are two SETS of fields.
(ii) Applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies
(SETI) or Other Fields  (SET2) or Both sets of
fields. The perference must be indicated if candidate
applies to both sets of fields.
(iii)
SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First
preference and 2 for Second preference. This should
be completed only by the candidates who are
applying for Maritime Studies .
(iv) SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1,2,3,4,5,6,7.
"1" for the "most preferred", "2" for the next, and
so on. "7" for the least preferred.
5.(i) Application Fee.–  Application fee for SET 1 or SET 2 is
Rs. 300 and SET1 and SET 2 is Rs. 500. A receipt of payment in
favour of "Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
A/C No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubedda Branch" to
the value of Rs. 300 (Rupees Three Hundred) for one set of fields
of study (Rs. 500 if applying for both sets of fields), obtained only
from any branch of the Bank of Ceylon should accompany each
application. This application fee is non-refundable.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
552
(ii) Closing Date.– The closing date of applications is 30.04.2009.
6. Aptitude Test.– Applicants, short-listed according to the
G . C. E. (A.L) performance in Merit and District Quota will be
called for an aptitude test that will be conducted at the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
7. Registration :
(i) Candidates selected for admission will be required to
produce the originals of the following certificates on the
date of registration :–
* G .C.E. A/L Certificate,
* Certificate indicating G. C. E. (A./L.) Z-Score,
* School Leaving Certificate,
* Birth Certificate,
* Affidavit in support of any changes in name
appearing in different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
(i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma in
Technology Course will not be eligible for admission to
any other course in this University or in any other
University in Sri Lanka (except Open University of Sri
Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute under
the Ministry of Higher Education during the tenure of the
course.
(ii) A candidate who has registered in this University or any
other University in Sri Lanka (except Open University
of Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute
will not be eligible for registration.
Director.
Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa.
08th of April, 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICA TION FOR ADMISSION TO THE NA TIONAL DIPLOMA IN
TECHNOLOGY COURSE
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF
MORATUWA  – ACADEMIC YEAR 2009/2010
For office use only
Application No.
District
Application for (Please tick     9 )
(i) Maritime Fields - SET 1
(ii) Other Fields - SET 2
[Applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2) or
both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
01. Personal Details (Please use BLOCK CAPITALS)
Name in Full :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Name with Initials :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Title Mr./Ms. S e x Male/Female
Age (Years)       (Months) Date of Birth
Date Month Year
As at 31st
Dec. 2008
National ID
Number
02. Contact Details
Address (Residence):
(Leave one blank cage between different segments of the
address)
Telephone
Mobile
E-mail (if available)
03. Results of G. C. E. (Advance Level) Examination :
Subjects & Details of Grades & Details
Examination obtained at the
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd  Attempt
Year
Physics
Chemistry
Combined Mathematics
Advanced Mathematics
Index Number
Z-Score . .               .
Medium Sinhala/Tamil/English
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
Results of the year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether) 2006 or 2007 or 2008

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'04'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2009
553
04. School(s) attended from Year 11 to 13
Year Name & District Period of
Address of Attendance
 School From To
Year M D Year M D
11
12
13
1st Attempt
2nd Attempt
3rd Attempt
05. Certification of Results and Schools attended :
It is compulsory to certify the Results under No. 03 and
Details under No. 04 in the application by the School
Principal for the School Candidates, and by a Justice
of Peace for External Candidates.
I certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in
the cage No.3 and 4 are true and accurate according to the
Original Certificates.
Name of the Principal/Justice of the peace :
Rev./Dr./Mr./Mrs. ................................................................  
 Official Seal
....................... .....................
Signature Date
06. Field Preference :
Set 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First preference
and 2 for Second preference. This should be completed
only by the candidates who have applied for Maritime
Studies.
Set 2 - Insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. ‘1’ for
the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on. ‘7’ for
the last preferred.
Set 1 Set 2
Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
Marine Engineering Chemical Engineering
Technology Technology
Nautical Studies and Civil Engineering
Technology Technology
Electrical Engineering
Technology
State Priority, if applied for Electronic and Telecom-
both sets ( 9) unication Engineering
Technology
SET 1 Me chanical Engineering
Technology
SET 2 Polymer Technology
Textile & Clothing
Technology
Are you registered as a fulltime student
in any other University under the UGC
(other than Open University) or any
other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education ?
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
APPLICANT'S  DECLARATION :
(1) I declare that I am not a fulltime registered student at any
University (except Open University of Sri Lanka) or any
Higher Educational Institution under the Ministry of
Education.
(2) I certify that all the particulars given by me in this
Application are true and accurate. I am aware that if the
particulars given by me in this Application are found to
be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, I will be
discontinued from the course.
(3) In the event of my being selected for admission after the
Test, I shall abide by the Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations
and the Rules of the Institute of Technology, University
of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.
(4) I have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt
obtained from Bank of Ceylon, drawn in favour of
“Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa -
Account No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubedde
Branch”.
(5) I also enclose a self addressed stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth) in size 9" x 4".
(6) I am aware that if I am found to be registered in another
University or any other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education at the time of sitting for
the Aptitude Test for the National Diploma in Technology
Course, I will not be selected for the Course.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Paste your Cash Deposit/Cash Transfer Original Slip here.
04-600
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Yes N o