

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1 176
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1170
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"971 – 2016 cqks ui 10 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'06'10
No. 1,971 –  FRIDAY ,  JUNE 10, 2016
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st July, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th  June, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1167
Note.— Homoeopathy Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of April 12, 2016.
Note.— The list of Jurors in Galle and Balapitiya Jurisdiction area in year 2016 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala 
Language only. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1168
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are rele ased for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1169
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should perso nally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1170
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Marriages, Births and Deaths
 
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
District Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 03rd July, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
17th May, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Kalpitiya Post of Registrar of  Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional
   in Kalpitiya Division and Births and  Registrar General, District   
   Deaths of Kurinngampitiya Division  Secretariat, Puttalam. 
06–203
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages 
 
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule 
hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1171
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
District Registries. 
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
03rd July, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
17th May, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Registrar of  Muslim Marriages  District Secretary/Additional
   in Maradana Area of Kalutara and   Registrar General, District   
   Panadura Totamuna Division  Secretariat, Kalutara. 
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Registrar of  Muslim Marriages  District Secretary/Additional
   in Maggonabadda Area of Kalutara   Registrar General, District   
   and Panadura Totamuna Division  Secretariat, Kalutara. 
06–202
––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  POLICE   
Post of Sub Inspector (Special Task Force) 
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
for the Post of Probationary Sub-inspector of Police - 
Special Task Force in the Sri Lanka Police. 
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance 
with the specimen form given below should be sent to 
Director/Recruitment, Recruiting Office, No. 375, 1st 
Floor, Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha, Colombo 06. 
The application should be sent by the registered post to 
the above address to reach on or before 10.08.2016 and 
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. Delayed 
applications will not be entertained and no applications 
will be issued by the Sri Lanka Police. 
3. Salary Scale.–  Rs. 393,480 - 7 x 4,440 - 2 x 5,940 - 
25x7,920 - Rs. 634,440.
Salary will be paid from 01.01.2016 to 01.01.2020 as 
per the Public Administration Circular 3-2016 Schedule II 
and the above mentioned salary scale will be effect from 
01.01.2020.
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted in accordance with the IG Police Circular No. 
2416/2013, dated 07.01.2013. In addition to the above 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1172
salary scale, they will be paid following allowances :  
    Rs. cts. 
 ( a) Cost of living allowance 7,800.00
 ( b) Incentive allowance 1,500.00
 ( c) Uniform cleaning allowance 250.00
 ( d) 1/4 of monthly salary 3,962.50
 ( f) Arduous duty allowances  2,000.00
 ( g) Combined allowance 12,000.00
  (400x30 operational areas)
 ( h) Combined allowance  9,600.00
  (400x24 other areas)
In addition to the above said allowances :
 ( a)  Free transport facilities.
 ( b)  Free m edical facilities to officers  (Financial 
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment 
even in a foreign country.).
 ( c)  All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
 ( d)  Facilities to improve skills and talents in sports.
 ( e)  Travelling expenses are provided to undertake 
duties and money will be granted as rewards for 
outstanding and arduous duties. 
 ( f) Officers will be entitled to the special allowance 
only during the period they are attached to the STF 
consequent to the basic training. 
04. Basic Qualifications Required : 
 ( a) Age Limit.– The age should be 18 and 25 years 
as at closing date of the applications as per the 
Gazette Notification. However Police Officers 
currently serving in the Sri Lanka Police are 
eligible to apply up to the age of 27 years at age 
as at the closing date of applications. 
 ( b) Educational Qualifications : 
 * Should have passed 06 subjects in the G. C. E. 
(O/L) Examination in one sitting with 04 
credit passes including Mathematics and 
Medium Language. 
 * Should have passed 03 subjects in the G. C. E. 
(A/L) Examination in one sitting. 
Note 01.– The subjects passed at the G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination is determined as per the 
subject classification of Department 
of Examination i.e.- Science subject 
combination of subject number 41 and 44 
is considered as one subject and Maths 
subject combination of subject number 42 
and 45 as one subject. 
Note 02.– If the written test of Technical subject at 
the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination is failed, 
it is considered as the Technical subject is 
failed even though the practical test of the 
same subject is passed. 
Note 03.–  Since optional subjects are not Tamil, 
English and Sinhala included in the stream 
of G. C. E. (O/L) syllabus, passes in any 
of these subjects will not be accounted 
as a passed subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination. 
 ( c) Physical Requirements : 
  * Height 05 feet 06 inches (minimum).
  * Chest 32 inches minimum (in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the 
physical requirements, but fulfill the other 
stipulated qualifications will be eligible 
at the discretion of Inspector General of 
Police provided they have outstanding 
skills in sports and have achieved excellent 
performance in sports at national level or 
have earned reputation for Sri Lanka by 
participating in an internatinal competition. 
 ( d) Visual Requirement.– Vision should not be less 
than 6/12 in each eye. It is also accepted, if the 
vision is 6/6 in one eye and 6/18 in the other eye it 
will be accepted. Colour vision should be normal. 
Applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses 
will not be eligible. 
 ( f) Other Qualifications .– Applicants should be 
unmarried (Divorcees will be considered as 
married). Only this condition will not apply for 
the Police Officers presently serving in the Sri 
Lanka Police and who have fulfilled the other 
qualifications. 
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will 
have to pass the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the 
Sri Lanka Police. Only those who pass this test must also 
get through the following physical fitness test or endurance 
test. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1173
Physical Fitness Test :
 Exercise Times  Time (minutes)
1. 1,000 meters  04
2. Chip ups 06 01
3. Push ups 20 01
4. Situps 20 01
5. Scott thrush 18 01
* Testing on self-confidence (endurance test)
* Testing on starting energy and responding.
Only those who are successful in the physical fitness test 
will be summoned for the final interview, and those who 
score 40% or more in the final interview will be summoned 
for the written test. 
w The written test consists of two question papers. 
* An essay paper not less than 500 words - 45 
minutes.
* General knowledge and intelligence test paper - 1 
hour.  
     
06. Medical Examination .– Applicant must pass the 
medical test before obtaining his appointment. Medical test 
is an only one part of the recruitment process. Selection 
will be made among the applicants who pass the medical 
test as per the number of existing vacancies and the position 
in the list pertaining to the merits and skill. Those who fail 
the medical test will be rejected. 
07. Background Inquiries : 
 ( a) Applicant's close relations and friends will 
be inquired, on the conduct of the applicant. 
Applicants with bad conduct will not be 
recruited ;
 ( b) Providing false information will make the 
applicant ineligible. If the false information is 
elicited after the appointment, the applicants 
will be dismissed from the service. 
08. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular No. 
07/2007 dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry 
of Public Administration and Home Affairs, all 
officers recruited to the Public/Provincial Public 
Service with effect from 01.07.2007 should 
acquire proficiency in the other official language 
within a period of 05 years in addition to the 
official language through which they enter the 
service. 
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant 
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should 
pass the level 2 of the language test conducted by 
the Department of Official Languages. 
* The salary increments of the officers who do not 
acquire the specific proficiency in the second 
official language within a period of 05 years from 
the date of their appointments will be deferred 
until they obtain qualifications.  
09. Terms of Engagement.– This post is permanent and 
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows'/
Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme. 
10. Conditions of Service : 
 ( a) This appointment is subject to a three years 
probation period ;
 ( b) The selected applicants will be required to comply 
with any rules already made or may hereinafter be 
made to give effect to the official language policy;
 ( c) They will be subjected to comply with the relevant 
provisions of the Establishment Code V olume 
I and II, Financial Regulations, Departmental 
Orders, and any other orders that may be issued 
by the Inspector General of Police or by the 
Government from time to time;
 ( d) Prior to the ir confirmation, every officer will be 
required to pass the prescribed Examinations 
conducted by the Sri Lanka Police. Those who 
fail to pass the prescribed examinations or found 
to be unfit for Police duties will be liable to be 
removed from the Police Service ;
 ( e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior 
to the confirmation in the said rank without the 
permission of the Inspector General of Police. 
However in terms of P. G. II No. 41 dated 
28.02.1973 and I. G's Circular No. 1952/2006 
of 19.10.2006 and circular (amended) dated 
09.08.2007, it is possible to marry under special 
circumstances and with the permission of 
Inspector General of Police ;
 ( f) Applicants appoi nted after the training should 
serve a probationary period of 03 years in the Sri 
Lanka Police and if they wish to resign from the 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1174
service before their probation is over, they should 
sign a consent agreement to the effect that they are 
willing to pay any amount which was incurred on 
the training and uniforms etc., together with any 
other prescribed payments at the time of tendering 
their resignations. Director of Poilce Training 
College will decide it having calculated dues from 
the applicants. The acceptance of resignation 
should conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of 
V olume I of the Establishments Code, 1985 ;
 ( g) Probationary Sub Inspectors should subscribe 
affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply 
with the Police Code of conduct immediate 
after commencing their training in terms of the 
I. G. P.’s Circular, No. 1693/2003 ;
 ( h) Probationary Sub Inspectors should subscribe the 
Oath of allegiance for a prestigious public service, 
immediate after commencing their training in 
terms of the I.G.P.'s Circular, No. 1804/2004 ;
 ( i) Probationary Sub Inspectors who have been 
confirmed in the post will have opportunities for 
promotions in terms of the approved schemes of 
promotions of the Sri Lanka Police.  
11. (a) Attention is drawn to the general conditions 
applicable to appointments to posts in the Public 
Service published at the beginning of the Section 
(IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette ;
 ( b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public 
Administration Circular, No. 15/90 dated 
10.03.1990. 
12. Applications should accompany copies of the 
following documents (originals must not be forwarded) :
 (i) Birth Certificate ;
 (ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained 
from persons who are not related) ;
 (iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
 (iv) Certificates in support of sports with outstanding 
records or other extra curricular activities ;
 (v) A photostat copy of the certificates of service 
experience (if available) ;
 (vi) A photostat copy of the Identity Card.
13. (a) Applicants who are already in the Public Service 
must forward their applications through the 
Heads of their respective Departments and they 
must be accompanied with a certificate stating 
that the officer can be released if selected. 
 ( b) Applicants must fill the required particulars 
in their own hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in 
size and post them together with the copies of 
certificates, to the address given in paragraph two 
and under no circumstances should applications 
be handed over personally to any officer.
14. Applications which do not conform to the 
requirements stipulated in this notification will be rejected 
and such applicants will not be notified. 
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
to applicants who are summoned for the test and 
interview. 
Inspector General of Police. 
23rd May, 2016.
SRI LANKA POLICE 
Post of sub InsPector (sPecIal task force) 
sPecImen aPPlIcatIon form
For office use
01.  (a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   (As stated in the applicant's birth certificate)
  ( b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
  ( c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
 (Copy of the NIC should de attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 Divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth 
belongs :––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :––––––––––.
  ( b) Police Station to which the present address belongs 
:––––––––––.
  ( c) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
  ( d) Police Station to which the permanent address 
belongs :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1175
  ( e) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent 
address belongs :––––––––––.
   Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
  ( f) Telephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
   Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  ( b) Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen by birth or  
  registration :–––––––––.
   (If by registration attach copies of certificate)
  ( c) If you are citizen by birth state the place of birth :–
  (i) Applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
  (iii) Applicant's paternal grand father :––––––––.
  (iv) Applicant's paternal great grand father :–––––––.
07. Date of Birth :––––––––––. 
 (Copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
 Age :––––––––––.
 (as at the closing date of applications as per the Gazette 
Notification) :  
 Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :–––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
 Chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (mention the examinations 
passed and the copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
11. Civil status :––––––––––.
12.  (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (ii) Are you a member of any armed force ? :––––––.
13. Do you have special skills and/or qualifications :––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two non-related referees 
to inquire about the applicant :
  (i) ––––––––––.
  (ii) ––––––––––.
15. Have you served in the Sri Lanka Police Service 
before ? (If so, what are the reasons for leaving the 
service ? give details) :––––––––.
16. (a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so 
your application must be forwarded through the 
respective Service Commander) :–––––––––.
 ( b) Have you served in an armed service ? (If so 
attach a copy  of your discharge certificate) :                
––––––––––.
17. (a) Are you serving in a V olunteer Armed Service ? 
(If so, your application must be forwarded 
through the respective Service Commander) : 
––––––––.
 ( b) Have you served in V olunteer Armed service ? 
:––––––––.
  (If so attach a copy of your discharge certificate)
18. Have you been arrested on suspicion of having 
committed an offence ? Have you been, convicted or 
brought before the court or punished (If so give details) 
:––––––––––.
19. Has any of your relation been arrested on suspicion of 
having committed an offence or convicted or brought 
before the court or punished (If so give details) :–––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. If the 
particulars furnished are found to be incorrect or false, I 
am aware that I am liable for immediate termination of my 
service in the Sri Lanka Police at any time even though I 
have been appointed to the post. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant. 
Date :––––––––––.
20. Certification of the Head of Department (If applicable) :
This is to certify that the applicant Mr./Miss ..................... 
is serving in ........................... the Department Corporation/
Board and if he is selected for the above post, he could be 
released from service. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Department 
 with the Designation seal. 
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
06–288

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1176
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION 
FOR  GRADE  II  STATISTICAL  OFFICERS 
IN  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  CENSUS  AND 
STATISTICS - 2013(2016)
IT is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination 
for Grade II Statistical Officers belongs to the post of 
Statistical Officer in the Department of Census and 
Statistics in accordance with the provisions of relevant 
approved recruitment procedure will be held in September, 
2016 by the Department of Examinations. 
02.  (i) This examination will be held by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations and 
candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
stipulated by him in respect of holding this 
examination and issuance of results. The decision 
of the Commissioner General of Examinations 
will be the final decision with respect to holding 
the examination and issuing results. 
 (ii) A set of rules and regulations for candidates is 
published separately in the Gazette notification. 
Any candidate who violates these rules and 
regulations will be liable to a punishment imposed 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations. 
03. Examination Fees. – Candidates can sit whole 
examination or relevant subjects separately. Candidates 
who are sitting this examination or part of it for the first time 
need not to pay examination fees. However, at consequent 
sittings, candidates are required to pay Rs. 600 for whole 
examination and Rs. 200 for each subject. This should be 
paid at any Post/Sub Post Office in the island to be credited 
to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of Commissioner General 
of Examinations. The receipt should be affixed in the 
relevant cage. (It would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the receipt). Money orders or stamps are not accepted 
as examination fees and under no circumstances, this 
fees will be refunded or transferred in respect of another 
examination. 
04. Applications.– Application should be in the form of 
the specimen appended to this notification and should be 
prepared on a paper of 'A4' size using both sides in such 
a way that headings number 01 to 04.2 appear on the first 
page. It is compulsory to indicate the title of the examination 
appearing the application in English language, too, on both 
Sinhala and Tamil application forms. Application form may 
be typewritten but should be filled clearly and legibly by 
the candidate himself in his own handwriting. Applications 
prepared thus by the candidate should be sent through the 
respective head of Department by registered post to the 
"Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization 
and Foreign Examination Branch, Sri Lanka Examinations 
Department, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo" so as to reach him/
her on or before 11th July 2016. The top left corner of the 
envelope containing the application should clearly bear 
the name of the examination. Applications received after 
the closing date and that have not been perfected properly 
will be rejected. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the completed application form. It is the responsibility 
of the candidate to make sure that the application form 
perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen 
given in the examination notice, if not, application will be 
rejected. (It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
completed application). 
05. Identification of candidates. – Candidates are 
required to prove their identity in the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor of each subject. For this 
purpose, any of the following documents can be submitted 
to the supervisor : 
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the 
Commissioner of Department of Registration 
of Persons, 
 (ii) A valid passport. 
Candidature of any candidate, who fails to submit any 
of the above, the decision of the Commissioner General of 
Examinations will be the final. 
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue copy of the time table and admission cards 
for the examination to all candidates who have sent in 
duly completed applications. Candidates should get 
their signature certified on the admission card attested in 
advance and surrender to the supervisor of the examination 
hall. Candidates without the certified admission cards will 
not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification 
will be published in newspapers by the Department of 
Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued 
to candidates. If the admission card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be 
taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. Then applicant's 
full name, address, National Identity Card number and 
name of the examination should be mentioned and it would 
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of 
calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. : copy of the 
application, photocopy of receipt of the paid examination 
fees and receipt of the registered letter. In case of applicants 
who are in outstations, a letter of request, furnishing a fax 
number can be sent to the Department of Examinations in 
order to get a copy of the admission card through fax. 
 06.1 The post and service station of the candidate, at 
the time he/she applies for the examination will be 
applicable for all matters relating to examination 
and any changes which occur in the post and 
service station after sending the application will 
not be considered.  

<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1177
07. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave to 
candidates to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations enabling 
them to present themselves at the examination. Travelling 
expenses will not be paid in this respect. 
08. This examination will be held only in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English medium. Any officer who has been recruited to 
the government service through competitive examination 
the medium of that examination and any officer who 
has been recruited to the government service without 
competitive examination, the medium of the examination 
of his/her eligibility of absorbing the government service 
should be selected as the medium of this examination. 
Candidates are required to sit all the subjects in one 
medium and applied medium will not be changed later. 
09. This examination will be held only in Colombo. 
10. Scheme of Examination .– Relevant examination of 
the above post consists of following subjects. 
 Paper Duration  Total Pass 
   Marks Marks
1. Basic Statistical 02 hours 100 40%
 Methods 
2. Office Administration 02  hours 100 40%
 and Establishment
 Code
3. Financial Regulations 02 hours 100 40%
 Paper Syllabus
1. Basic Statistical 
 Methods
II. Office 
 Administration 
 and Establish- 
 ment Code
III. Financial 
 Regulation    
Data collection and presentation,  
tDistribution, normal distribution,  
hypotheses testing theories and X 2 
testing, histogram and frequency 
curve, central tendency and 
measures of dispersions (Mode, 
Median, Mean), Variance, Quartiles 
and Standard Deviation, Principales 
of Sampling Techniques, Sampling 
Survey, Sampling Error, Non 
sampling error, indicies, simple 
Co-relation, linear regression, basic 
statistics knowledge.  
* Chapters : II, III, IV , V , VIII, XII, 
 XIII, XIV , XIX of Establishment  
 Code and also amended circulars  
 for above chapters should be  
 followed.
This paper will be prepared based on 
the following chapters of Financial 
Regulation. 
* 1st chapter - Income and 
expenditure estimates, 
consolidated fund, annual 
estimates, changing of annual 
estimates (From F. R. 1 to 68)
* IIIrd Chapter - Financial 
Management and accountability, 
giving authority for payments, 
approval, certifying and 
assigning duties for Chief 
Accounting Officers, Accounting 
Officers, Revenue Accounting 
Officers. (From F. R. 124 to 147)
 Paper Syllabus
Note : 
 – Candidates can sit above subjects separately. 
 – If a candidate fails to complete the exam within 
the due period, it will be a reason to defer the 
next increment. 
11. Issue of an admission card to a candidate should 
not be regarded as an acceptance of his/her eligibility for 
sitting the examination. 
12. The decision of the Director General of Census and 
Statistics will be final in respect of any matter not provided 
in this Gazette notification. 
13. If there are any differences between Sinhala, Tamil 
and English versions Sinhala version will be effective. 
 Dr. A. J. satharasInghe, 
 Director General, 
 Department of Census and Statistics.
No. 306/71,
"Sankyana Mandiraya",
Polduwa Road, Battaramulla. 
Specimen Application Form 
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION 
FOR GRADE II STATISTICAL OFFICERS IN 
THE DEPARTMENT OF CENSUS AND 
STATISTICS - 2013 (2016)
(For office use only)
Language medium of examination : 
 Sinhala - 2
 Tamil - 3
 English - 4
 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1178
01. 1.1 Full name (In English block capitals) :––––––––.
  ( E.g.– HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  
KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
 1.2 Write surname first and initials of other names at 
the end (In Engish block capitals) :––––––––––.
  ( Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
 1.3 Full Name :––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Name and address of the Office/Department/
Institution :––––––––––.
  (In English block capitals)
 2.2 Name and address of the Office/Department/
Institution :––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
 2.3 Private Address :––––––––––.
  (In English block capitals)
 2.4 Private Address :––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
 2.5 Address to which the admission should be sent 
:––––––––––.
  (In English block capitals)
03. Subjects you appear in this examination : 
  Serial No. Subject Subject No. 
 1
 2
 3
04. Sex :
 4.1 Male  - 0
  Female - 1
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 4.2 National Identity Card No. : 
 4.3 Date of Birth : 
  Year Month Date
05. Present Post : 
 5.1 Post :–––––––––.
 5.2 Number of the appointment letter :–––––––––.
06. 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ?  
 :–––––––––.
 6.2 If not, value of the paid cash amount ? :–––––––––. 
 6.3 Receipt No. :–––––––––.
 6.4 Date :–––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt (If it is relevant)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I 
am eligible to appear for t he examination, in the language 
medium indicated above and receipt of paid examination 
fees for Rs. .............. has been affixed here. I agree to abide 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examination on issuance of results and 
conducting of this examination. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the candidate. 
Date :–––––––––.
Note.– The applicant should place her/his signature in the 
presence of the relevant Head of Department or an 
officer authorized to do so on behalf of him. 
Attestation of the Signature
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................... 
who serves at my office is personally known to me and that 
he/she placed his/her signature before me on ................. 
and receipt of paid examination fees has been affixed here.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the person attesting. 
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
(Certify of the official rank)
Certificate of the Head of the Department : 
I certify that, 
1. The particulars furnished by her/him in chapters 
above have been checked. 
2. He/she is eligible to sit the examination. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of Head of Department 
  and Official frank. 
  
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
06–259/1

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1179
SECOND EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION 
FOR  GRADE  I  STATISTICAL  OFFICERS IN  
THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  CENSUS  AND 
STATISTICS - 2013(2016)
IT is hereby notified that Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Grade I Statistical Officers belongs to 
the post of Statistical Officer in the Department of Census 
and Statistics in accordance with the provisions of relevant 
approved recruitment procedure will be held in September, 
2016 by the Department of Examinations. 
02.  (i) This examination will be held by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations and 
candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
stipulated by him in respect of holding this 
examination and issuance of results. The decision 
of the Commissioner General of Examinations 
will be the final decision with respect to holding 
the examination and issuing of results. 
 (ii) A set of rules and regulations for candidates is 
published separately in the Gazette notification. 
Any candidate who violates these rules and 
regulations will be liable to a punishment imposed 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations. 
03. Examination Fees. – Candidates can sit relevant 
subjects of this examination once or separately twice. 
Candidates who are sitting for whole examination or one 
subject for the first time, need not to pay examination fees. 
However, at consequent sittings, candidates are required 
to pay Rs. 400 for whole examination and Rs. 200 for 
each subject. This should be paid at any Post/Sub Post 
Office in the island to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-
02-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations. The 
receipt should be affixed in the relevant cage. (It would 
be advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt). Money 
orders or stamps are not accepted as examination fees 
and under no circumstances, this fees will be refunded or 
transferred in respect of another examination. 
04. Applications.– Application should be in the form of 
the specimen appended to this notification and should be 
prepared on a paper of 'A4' size using both sides in such 
a way that headings number 01 to 04.2 appear on the first 
page. It is compulsory to indicate the title of the examination 
appearing the application in English language, too, on 
both Sinhala and Tamil application forms. Application 
form may be typewritten but should be filled clearly and 
legibly by the candidate himself in his own handwriting. 
Applications prepared thus by the candidate should be sent 
through the respective head of Department by registered 
post to the "Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, S ri Lanka 
Examinations Department, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo" so 
as to reach on or before 11th July 2016. The top-left corner 
of the envelope containing the application  should clearly 
bear the name of the examination. Applications received 
after the closing date and that have not been perfected 
properly will be rejected. It is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/herself complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice, if not, application will be rejected. (It 
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form). 
05. Identification of Candidates. – Candidates are 
required to prove their identity in the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor of each subject. For this 
purpose, any of the following documents can be submitted 
to the supervisor : 
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the 
Commissioner of Department of Registration 
of Persons, 
 (ii) A valid passport. 
Candidature of any candidate, who fails to submit any 
of the above, the decision of the Commissioner General of 
Examinations will be the final. 
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue copy of the time table and admission cards 
for the examination to all candidates who have sent in 
duly completed applications. Candidates should get 
their signature certified on the admission card attested in 
advance and surrender to the supervisor of the examination 
hall. Candidates without the certified admission cards will 
not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification 
will be published in newspapers by the Department of 
Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to 
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 
2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to 
notify the Department of Examinations through telephone 
numbers specified in the advertisement. Then applicant's 
full name, address, National Identity Card number and 
name of the examination should be mentioned and it would 
be advisable to keep the followi ng in hand at the time of 
calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. : copy of the 
application, photocopy of receipt of the paid examination 
fees and receipt of the registered letter. In case of applicants 
who are in outstations, a letter of request, furnishing a fax 
number can be sent to the Department of Examinations in 
order to get a copy of the admission card through fax. 
 06.1 The post and service station of the candidate, at 
the time he/she applies for the examination will be 
applicable for all matters relating to examination 
and any changes which occur in the post and 
service station after se nding the application will 
not be considered.  
07. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave to 
candidates to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations enabling 
them to present themselves at the examination. Travelling 
expenses will not be paid in this respect. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1180
08. This examination will be held only in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English medium. Any officer who has been recruited to 
the government service through competitive examination 
the medium of that examination and any officer who 
has been recruited to the government service without 
competitive examination, the medium of the examination 
of his/her eligibility of absorbing the government service 
should be selected as the medium of this examination. 
Candidates are required to sit all the subjects in one medium 
and applied medium will not be allowed to change later. 
09. This examination will be held only in Colombo. 
10. Schedule of Examination.– Relevant examination of 
the above post consists of following subjects. 
 Subject Duration  Total Pass 
   Marks Marks
1. Office Administration 02  hours 100 40%
 and Establishment
 Code
2. Financial Regulations 02 hours 100 40%
 Paper Syllabus
1. Office 
 Administration 
 and Establish- 
 ment Code
III. Financial 
 Regulation   
Note : 
 – Candidates can sit above subjects separately. 
 – If a candidate fails to complete the exam within 
the due period, it will be a reason to defer the 
next increment. 
11. Issue of an admis sion card to a candidate should 
not be regarded as an acceptance of his/her eligibility for 
sitting the examination. 
Chapters : XV , XVI, XXIII, XXIV , 
XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXIII, 
XLVII, XLVIII of Establishment Code 
and also attention should be given to the 
amended circulars of above chapters. 
This paper will be prepared based on 
the follwoing chapters of Financial 
Regulations. 
* Chapter VI - Custody of Public 
money, imprest and Bank accounts, 
safety of Public Finance, Board of 
survey, over draft, bank accounts 
(From FR 315 to 396)
* Procurement Guide Lines 2006 
- Procurement Procedure under 
goods and works
12. The decision of the Director General of Census and 
Statistics will be final in respect of any matter not provided 
in this Gazette notification. 
13. If there are any difference between Sinhala, Tamil 
and English versions Sinhala version will be effective. 
 Dr. A. J. satharasInghe, 
 Director General, 
 Department of Census and Statistics.
No. 306/71,
"Sankyana Mandiraya",
Polduwa Road, Battaramulla. 
Specimen Application Form 
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION 
FOR GRADE I STATISTICAL OFFICERS IN 
THE DEPARTMENT OF CENSUS AND 
STATISTICS - 2013 (2016)
(For office use only)
Language medium of examination : 
 Sinhala - 2
 Tamil - 3
 English - 4
 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1 Full name (In English block capitals) :––––––––.
  ( E.g.– HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  
KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
 1.2 Write surname first and initials of other names at 
the end (In Engish block capitals) :––––––––––.
  ( Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
 1.3 Full Name :––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Name and address of the Office/Department/
Institution :––––––––––.
  (In English block capitals)
 2.2 Name and address of the Office/Department/
Institution :––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
 2.3 Private Address :––––––––––.
  (In English block capitals)
 2.4 Private Address :––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
 2.5 Address to which the admission should be sent 
:––––––––––.
  (In English block capitals)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1181
03. Subject/Subjects that you appear in this examination : 
  Serial No. Subject Subject No. 
 1
 2
04. Sex :
 4.1 Male  - 0
  Female - 1
  (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 4.2 National Identity Card No. : 
 4.3 Date of Birth : 
  Year Month Date
05. Present Post : 
 5.1 Post :–––––––––.
 5.2 Number of the appointment letter :–––––––––.
06. 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ?  
 :–––––––––.
 6.2 If not, value of the paid cash amount ? :–––––––––. 
 6.3 Receipt No. :–––––––––.
 6.4 Date :–––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt (If it is relevant)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I 
am eligible to appear for the examination, in the language 
medium indicated abov e and receipt of paid examination 
fees for Rs. .............. has been affixed here. I agree to abide 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examination on issuance of results and 
conducting of this examination. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the candidate. 
Date :–––––––––.
Note.– The applicant should place her/his signature in the 
presence of the relevant Head of Department or an 
officer authorized to do so on behalf of him. 
Attestation of the Signature
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................... 
who serves at my office is personally known to me and that 
he/she placed his/her signature before me on ................. 
and receipt of paid examination fees has been affixed here.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the person attesting. 
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
(Certify by the official frank)
Certificate of the Head of the Department : 
I certify that, 
1. The particulars furnished by her/him in above 
chapters have been checked. 
2. He/she is eligible to sit the examination. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of Head of Department 
  and Official frank. 
  
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
06–259/2
––––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  
OFFICERS  IN  GRADE  III  AND  GRADE  
II OF  SRI  LANKA  TECHNOLOGICAL  
SERVICE - 2016(I)
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved 
service minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service, 
the above mentioned examin ations will be held by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations, in Colombo, in 
the month of September 2016. 
02.  (i)  These examinations will be conducted by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations and 
candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations prescribed by him in respect of 
conducting the examination and issuing the 
results. The candidates will be subjected to 
a punishment imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Exami nations, if such rules are 
violated by them. 
 (ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed 
separately at the beginning of this Gazette 
Notification. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1182
03. The specimen application for admission to this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
Candidates are required to prepare their applications in 
accordance with the specimen form and officers of Sri 
Lanka Technological Service in the public service of the 
central government should forward their applications 
through the respective head of department and officers of 
Sri Lanka Technological Service in the provincial public 
service should forward their applications through the 
Secretary of PSC in the provincial council where they serve, 
by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of 
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examination 
Branch, Department of Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, 
Colombo on or before 11th of July 2016. The top left corner 
of the envelope containing the application should bear 
clearly the title of the examination. Applications received 
after the closing date of application will be rejected. 
04. Identity Cards .– Candidates should prove their 
identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose any 
of the following documents will be accepted :
 ( a) An Identity Card issued by the Department of 
Registration of Persons,
 ( b) A valid passport. 
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish 
any of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the 
discretion of Commissioner General of Examinations. 
05. Application : 
 (i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 
in size using both sides. No. 01 to 06 should 
appear on the first page whilst the rest should 
appear on other pages. Applications could be 
typed but they should be completed correctly 
and legibly by the candidate in his/her own 
handwriting and in the language medium in 
which the candidate sits this examination. 
 (ii) When the application form is prepared, the title 
of the examination appearing in the specimen 
should be indicated in English Language as 
well, on both Sinhala and Tamil application 
forms. Applications which are incomplete and 
not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form will be rejected without any notice. It is 
the responsibility of the candidate to make sure 
that the application form perfected by him/her 
self complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice and it would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the completed application 
form. 
 (iii) The candidates appearing for the whole 
examination or one subject for the first time 
need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, a fee of Rs. 400 should be 
paid for the whole examination and if only one 
subject is offered, a fee of Rs. 200 should be 
paid. The fee can be paid at any post office or 
sub post office in the Island to be credited to 
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner 
General of Examinaion on or before the closing 
date of application and the receipt obtained 
thus should be affixed firmly in the relevant 
cage of the application. It would be advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the 
candidate. Under no circumstance, will the fee 
be refunded nor transferred in respect of other 
examinations. Stamps or money orders will not 
be accepted for the examination fee. 
 (iv) This examination is held in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English medium. Applicants should select 
one medium relevant to them and they should 
answer the question papers in one and the same 
language selected by them. The medium they 
applied for is not allowed to change at a later 
occasion. 
 (v) An officer is not allowed to sit for both 
Efficiency Bar Examinations at one and the 
same occasion.  
 (vi) The officers who have entered into the Grade 
III of Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the 
closing date of the application can sit for the 
first Efficiency Bar Examination and those who 
have entered into the Grade II can sit for the 
second Efficiency Bar Examination. 
06. On supposition that only the candidates who have 
possessed the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette 
have submitted applications, the Commissioner General of 
Examinations will issue admission cards to the applicants 
who have submitted perfected applications indicating the 
medium of language, examination applied for, signature of 
the applicant and the attestation of the signature, attestation 
of the Head of the Department along with the receipt of 
payment of the examination fee, if relevant, on or before 
the closing date of examination. A candidate sitting for 
the examination must produce his admission card which 
bears the candidate's signature and duly attested to the 
supervisor of the examination center. A candidate who 
foils to produce his admission card will not be permitted 
to sit the examination. A notification will be published in 
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to 
the candidates. If the admi ssion card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such adve rtisement, steps should be 
taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. At the time of 
calling the Department of Examinations, the full name of 
the applicant, address and nati onal identity card number 
should me mentioned and it would be advisable to keep the 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1183
following in hand i. e. photocopies of the application form 
and the receipt of payment of examination fee if relevant, 
kept at your possession and the receipt of registration. In 
case of applicants outside Colombo, a letter of request with 
a fax number to which the admission card should be sent 
and other particulars mentioned above should be sent to the 
Department of Examination by fax. 
07. The documents furnished later by the candidates 
who have failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in para 
(06) above will not be considered. 
08. Officers may, if they so which, present themselves 
for different subjects separately at different examinations. 
However, in order to secure a pass at least 40% of the 
marks should be obtained in respect of each question paper. 
09. Issuance of the results of the examination. – In 
accordance with the particulars indicated in para 3 above, 
the results of the candidates belonging to provincial public 
service will be issued to the Secretary of the respective 
Provincial Public Service Commission and the results of 
the candidates belonging to public service of the central 
government will be issued to the Secretary of the Ministry 
of Public Administration. 
10. Schedule of Examinations :
(1) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers 
in Grade III will consist of the following 02 
question papers. 
 Subject No. (01) - Establishments Code 
and Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
Commission - (Two hours) 100 marks
 Subject No. (02) Financial Regulations - (Two 
hours) 100 marks
 Establishments Code and Procedural Rules of 
the Public Service Commission (Subject No. 01) 
- Syllabus 
Chapter VIII Overtime, Holidays, Holiday 
pay and Allowances.
Chapter XII Leave.
Chapter XIII Railway Warrants.
Chapter XIV Travel on duty within the 
Island.
Chapter XIX Government Quarters.
 Financial Regulations (Subject No. 02) - 
Syllabus
 This paper will be based on the following 
Chpaters of Financial Regulations. 
(1) Chapter I.
 Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue.
 The Consolidated Fund and Planning and 
Programming of Expenditure, Form of 
Presentation of Annual Estimates, New 
Proposals, Preparation Submission and 
passing of Estimates of Expenditure, 
Variations of Estimates of Expenditure.  
(FR 1 to 68)
(2) Chapter III.
 Financial Management and Accountability. 
 Chief Accounting Officers, Accounting 
Officers, Revenue Officers, Authorization, 
Approval, Certification, Delegation of 
Authority. (FR. 124 to 147)
(2) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in 
Grade II will consist of the following 02 question 
papers.
 Subject No. 03 - Establishments Code (Two 
hours) 100 marks
 Subject No. 04 - Financial Regulations - (Two 
hours) 100 marks
 Establishments Code (Subject No. 03) - Syllabus
 This paper will be based on the following 
Chapters of Establishments Code. 
Chapter XV Travel abroad for study, 
training or on duty.
Chapter XVI Holiday Travel.
Chapter XXIII Special concessions and 
conditions regarding officers 
suffering from certain types 
of illnesses.
Chapter XXIV Salary Loans and Advances. 
Chapter XXV Concessions to members of 
Trade Unions. 
Chapter XXVII Channels of communication. 
Chapter XXVIII Administrative procedures.
Chapter XXX Right of Government over its 
officers. 
Chapter XXXIII Legal advice and legal 
actions. 
Chapter  XLVII General conduct and 
discipline.
Chapter XLVIII Rules of disciplinary 
procedure.
 Financial Regulations (Subject No. 04) - 
Syllabus
 This paper will be based on the following 
Chapters of Financial Regulations. 
(1) Chapter VI
 Custody of Public money etc., imprests 
and bank Accounts. Security and custody 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1184
of public etc., counterfoil books, boards of 
survey on cash stamps etc., imprests, bank 
accounts (FR. 315 to 396)
(2) Chapter XIII
 Supplies, works and Services.
 Procurement and contracts, supplies, 
custody and verification of stores, surplus 
and unserviceable articles. 
 (FR. 685 to 775)
11. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Public 
Administration and Management will be the final in respect 
of any matter not provided for in this notification. 
12. Issue of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the 
examination has been accepted. 
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail as the accurate text. 
 J. dadallage, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Public, Administration and 
 Management. 
Ministry of Public Administration and Management, 
Independence Square, 
Colombo 07,
26th May, 2016. 
Specimen Form of Application 
(For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS 
IN GRADE III AND GRADE II OF SRI LANKA 
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - 2016(I)
(Applications for both Grade III and Grade II examinations 
cannot be submitted at one and the same time)
Medium in which you sit for the examination :
(Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3/English - 4)
Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination for which you intend to sit : 
Grade III  - 0
Grade II - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. Whether you belong to the provincial public service 
or public service (Indicate the number relevant to the 
service you belong, in the cage)
 (Central Public Service - 10 /Western Provincial 
Public Service - 01 /Central Provincial Public Service 
- 02 /Southern Provincial Public Service - 03 /North 
Provincial Public Service - 04 /Eastern Provincial 
Public Service - 05 /Northwestern Provincial Public 
Service - 06 /North Central Provincial Public Service - 
07 /Uva Provincial Public Service - 08 /Sabaragamuwa 
Provincial Public Service - 09)
02. (a) Name in full :––––––––––.
  (In English block capital letters)
  ( Eg. : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  
KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA)
 ( b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
  (Indicate the initials at the end of the name)
  (In English block capital letters) 
  (Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
 ( c) Name in full :––––––––––.
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Official address  (Admissions will be posted in this 
address) :––––––––––.
 (In English block capital letters) 
 (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
04. Sex : 
 (Male - 0/Female - 1)
 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05.  National Identity Card Number : 
06. Subject/Subjects offered :––––––––––.
 Subjects offered for the Efficiency Bar Examination of 
Grade III/Grade II (delete inapplicable words)
  Subject Subject No. 
  ............................
  ............................
07. Telephone Number : 
08. (i) Date of Birth : 
  Year : Month : Day : 
 (ii) Age as at 11.07.2016 : 
  Years : Months :  Days : 
09. (i) Designation :––––––––––.
 (ii) Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service 
(should be included as Grade III/II) :–––––––––.
 (iii) Service period in the above grade as at 11.07.2016 
:––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.06.2016
1185
10. Department to which you belong  :––––––––––.
11.  
Affix the receipt of examination fee here 
(It would be advisabe to keep a copy of the receipt)
I declare that the particulars furnished above are 
accurate and I am entitled to sit for the examination in the 
language medium mentioned above. Further, I agree to 
abide by the rules imposed by the Commissioner General 
of Examination on conducting the examination and issuing 
the results. 
  ––––––––––,
  Signature of the candidate. 
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the 
presence of the Head of Department or an officer duly 
authorized to sign on his behalf or the Divisional Head. 
Attestation of candidate's signature 
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. 
is presently employed in my office and is well known to 
me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
on ....................... 2016 and is exempted from paying the 
prescribed examination fee and has paid the prescribed 
examination fee and has affixed the receipt. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Attester. 
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the officer attesting :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Confirm by the official stamp)
Certification of the Head of the Department 
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 
I-II above are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit for 
the examination and also eligible to sit for the examination 
in the language medium mentioned above. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature and Designation of 
  Head of Department.
  (Confirm by the Official Stamp)
Date :––––––––––.
06–272