

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  21.10.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2146$3 - 2019 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 21 jeks i÷od - 2019'10'21
No. 2146/3 - MONDAY,  OCTOBER  21, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG   4713— 617  (10/2019)
L.D.B 9/2016(II)
THE  NATIONAL   MEDICINES   REGULATORY  AUTHORITY    ACT,   No.  5  OF  2015
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of  Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine under Section 142 read with Section 118
of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5 of  2015.
Dr. RAJITHA SENARATNE (M.P.)
Minister of Health, Nutrition and
Indigenous Medicine.
Colombo,
11th October, 2019.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as Pricing Regulations, 2019.
2. These regulations shall apply to and in relation to pricing of medicines, medical devices and borderline products
(hereinafter referred to as “medicinal products”) in these regulations.
3. The Authority shall, for the determination of introductory prices of medicinal products, consider the prevailing
market prices in Sri Lanka and any other countries of similar products within the same therapeutic class, regional and
international reference prices and any other factors determined by the Pricing Committe including information from any other
relevant sources, the cost, insurance an freight value of the medicinal products and  the applicable exchange rate.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  21.10.2019
2A
4. The pricing committee shall consist of the following :-
(a) ex-officio members
(i) the Chairman of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority ;
(ii) the Chief Executive Officer of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority ;
(iii) a representative of the Consumer Affairs Authority ; and
(iv) a pharmacist of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority.
(b) seven persons from among persons who have expertise, experience or proven  capacity in the fields of
Medicine, Pharmacy, Economics, Commerce, Accountancy, Law or any other related field.
5. The Authority shall appoint one of the members of the Pricing Committee as the Chairman of the Committee.
6. The quorum for any meeting of the Pricing Committee shall be seven members.
7. The Pricing Committee may regulate its own procedure in regard to its meetings and transaction of business at
such meetings.
8. The members of the Pricing Committee shall be paid such allowances as the Authority may determine.
9. The powers and functions of the Pricing Committee shall include -
(a) assisting the Authority in obtaining relevant information and data from the manufacturers, importers, wholesale
dealers, retail pharmacists, prescribers, dispensers and any other person in Sri Lanka or any other country
which may influence the determination of the price of any individual medicinal product or a group of
medicinal products ;
(b) recommending to the Authority a reduction or increase in prices or maintaining the existing price of a
medicinal products or a group of medicinal products ;
(c) monitoring the price fluctuations of a medicinal product ;
(d) collecting data on the use of a medicinal product or a group of medicinal products in Sri Lanka ;
(e) recommending to the Authority the methods of determining the introductory price and maximum retail price
of medicinal products and price revisions of such medicinal products. ;
(f) advising the Authority on any other matter relating to pricing of a medicinal product ;
(g) from time to time, take into consideration the medicinal products which shall be subject to revision of prices.
10. The holder of the certificate of registration or the local manufacturer of any medicinal product shall submit
reports on the quantities imported or supplied to the market of such registered product, to the Authority once in every six
months.
11. It shall be the responsibility of the importer or the local manufacturer to inform the retailers, wholesale dealers
and other relevant parties of the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) fixed by the Minister and the date of implementation.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  21.10.2019
3A
12. Every manufacturer or importer shall mark the retail unit price of each medicinal product in the commercial
package.
13. A person who sells a particular medicinal product at a price higher than the price fixed as the Maximum Retail
Price (MRP) commits an offence.
14. Notwithstanding the above provisions, the Pricing Committee may, from time to time, considering the need
for setting a Maximum Retail Price (MRP), for a particular medicinal product or group of medicinal products in the best
interest of the public shall make recommendations to the Minister to revise the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) and may
require relevant data from any holder of a certificate of registration of any medicinal product or local manufacturer.
15. The Pricing Committee may from time to time decide on the number of price revisions for any medicinal product
during a calendar year.
16. Each application for registration or renewal of registration of any medicinal product shall set out the existing and
the intended Maximum Retail Price (MRP), of the medicinal product together with the method of deciding the Maximum
Retail Price (MRP). The application shall be as recommended by the Authority. Where appropriate, the Pricing Committee
may, after studying the price of any medicinal product, give its recommendation with respect to the Maximum Retail
Price (MRP) to the Medicines Evaluation Committee established under section 43 of the National Medicines Regulatory
Authority Act, No. 5 of 2015.
17. The pricing committee may require such information as it considers necessary in respect of costs including
freight, insurance and any other cost from manufacturers, importers and traders and such manufacturers, importers or traders
shall provide the required information with proper explanation and account of such data.
18. No manufacturer, importer or any other person shall carry out any activity influencing the price or the availability
of any medicinal product which may lead to -
(a) the existence or possible existence of a monopoly situation ;
(b) the creation or possible creation of a merger situation ;
(c) the prevalence of any anti-competitive practice.
19. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations commits an offence and shall be triable under
section 131 of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5 of 2015.
11 - 628
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.