

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 07
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 04
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"948 – 2016 ckjdß ui 01 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'01'01
No. 1,948 – fRiday ,  JaNuaRy  01, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd   January, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th  January, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
3
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
4
Posts – Vacant
RegistRaR   geneRal ’s   Dep aRtment
post of Registrars of muslim marriages 
V aVuniya   District
applications are invited for the Posts of registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages registration Divisions and should be entitled to 
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District secretariats, Land and District registries, Divisional secretaries Offices, Grama niladhari Offices, rural Development 
societies and co-operative societies in the Division.
06. application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District s ecretaries (Government a gents) and Land and District 
registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 01st of February, 
2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 registrar General.
registrar General’s Department,
no. 234/a3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
07th December, 2015.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Vavuniya Vavuniya Post of registrar of Muslim Marriages The District secretary/The additional 
   of Vavuniya south Division (tamil  r egistrar General, District   
   Medium)  s ecretariat Vavuniya 
01–12
––––––––––––––––––––
RegistRaR  geneRal ’s  Dep aRtment  
amendment of closing date of applications for recruitment of Registrar of marriage, Birth and Death  
GaLLE  District
it is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death r egistrar for the 
Division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in the Gazette no. 1935 of 02.10.2015 is extended as 02.02.2016. 
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged. 
 registrar General.         
   

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
5
 schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post  and Division  for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of registrar of Births, Deaths and District secretary/additional 
   Marriages (normal) (tamil Medium)  r egistrar General, District   
   of Galle Four Gravets Division  s ecretariat Galle 
01–11
___________________
ministRy  of  skills  Development  anD  
vocational  tRaining 
Department of technical education and training 
rEcruitMEnt (OPEn) tO GraDE iii OF thE POst 
OF hOstEL MatrOn OF sErVicE catEGOry OF 
ManaGEMEnt assistant (nOn tEchnicaL) 
sEGMEnt 2 OF thE DEPartMEnt OF tEchnicaL 
EDucatiOn anD traininG
aPPLicatiOns are inivted from female applicants who have 
completed relevant qualifications to select suitable officer for the 
vacancy existing in the post of h ostel matron of service category 
of Management a ssistant (n on t echnical) segment 02 of the 
Department of technical Education and training. applicant who 
will select, will be attached to the vacancy existing in t eachnical 
college, Kuliyapitiya which comes under the purview of the 
Department of t echnical Education and t raining. applications 
on forms of the specimen mentioned at the end of this notification 
prepared according to the following instructions in a4 size paper 
using both sides should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the Director General, Department of t echnical Education and 
training P . O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha, c olombo 10 on or 
before the date under mentioned. The envelope enclosing the 
application should clearly be marked "recruitment to the Post of 
hostel Matron" on the top left hand corner. The closing date of 
application is 01.02.2016.
Note.– inquiries, about applications or related letters lost or 
delayed in post cannot be considered. any damages that 
may cause dut to the delay in submitting applications 
until the closing date should be borne by applicants, 
themselves.
1. Recruitment Procedure.– recruitment will be made on the 
results of structured interview and qualifications will also be 
examined : 
 Main headings to be givne marks Maximum Marks
additional Educational Qualifications  20
additional Vocational Qualifications 35
additional Experience 30
Language Proficiency 10
skills at the interview 05
total 100
2. Educational Qualifications :
 (i) h ave passed G. c. E. (Ordinary Level) examination 
in one sitting. in six (06) subjects with credit pass for 
Sinhala/tamil/English language, Mathematics and 
another two subjects ; and 
 (ii) Have passed at least one subject (except the General 
common test) in G. c. E. (advanced Level) 
examination. 
3. Vocational Qualifications.- Have followed full time National 
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) level 4 course in Management 
from an institution, recognized by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission and obtained a certificate. 
4. Service experience.- Have obtained one year experience 
in relevant post/field in Government of Government registered 
institution. 
5. Physical Fitness.- Every female applicant shall have 
sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri 
Lanka and discharge the duties of the post. 
6. Age limit.- Not less than 18 years and not more than 30 
years of age as at the closing date of applications.
7. Other Qualifications :
 (i) female applicants should be citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) Must have good moral character.
 (iii) All qualifications required to recruit to the post, 
should have been fulfilled on the closing date of 
applications, in every manner. 
8. Salary Scale.- in terms of salary circular bearing Public 
administration circular No. 06/2006(iv), salary scale of MN-
1-2006(ta), Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320 -                 
Rs. 22,040 (monthly) is applicable to this post.         
9. Mode of forwarding applications : 
 (i) applications, prepared with No. 01-07 of specimen 
application appearing in 1st page, No. 08-10 appearing 
in 2nd page and the rest in next pages, should be 
completed in their own handwriting perfectly. 
 (ii) applications, which are of non compliance with 
specimen application and include in complete 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
6
particulars and applications received after the closing 
date of applications will not be entertained. female 
applicants are advised to send their applications in 
time to avoid the possibility of postal delay. 
 (iii) Signature of applicants should be attested by a 
principal of Government School, a Grama Niladari 
of a division, a justice of peace, commissioner of   
oaths, attorney-at-law, Notary Public, commissioned 
Officer in the armed force, permanent staff officer in 
Public or Provincial Public Service with an annual 
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or above or a chief 
incumbent or a chief priest of a Buddhist temple or 
a distinguish person, in charge of holy place of any 
other religion.
 (iv) Officers, who are already in Public or Provincial 
Public Service should submit applications, through 
their head of the institution. 
 (v) your candidature will be repealed, if any information 
mentioned in the application being detected as 
incorrect or false, before the recruitment. if such 
information being detected after the recruitment, 
action will be taken to dismiss from the service, 
subject to the procedure relevant thereto. 
10. Conditions of employment :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable and selected 
applicant should contribute to the Widows and 
orphans/Widowers and orphans Pension Scheme. 
 (ii) Officer, who appointed to this post will be subject 
to the period of 03 year probationary and should 
pass the 1st efficiency bar examination within such 
03 years. 
 (iii) in terms of provisions of Public administration 
Circular No. 01/2014, relevant proficiency level of 
official language should be obtained. 
 (iv) this appointment subject to the procedural Rules 
of the Public Service commission, Establishments 
code of the democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka, financial Regulations of the state and 
departmental other orders. 
11. director General of the department of technical Education 
and training reserves the right to fill the vacancy. 
12. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, the 
tamil and the English texts of this Gazette Notification, Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
 J. a. 
Ranjith, 
 director General. 
department of technical Education and training, 
colombo 10,
01st January, 2016. 
application FoRm 
 For office use    
RecRuitment (open) to gRade iii oF the post oF hostel matRon 
oF seRvice categoRy oF management assistant (non technical) 
segment 2 oF the depaRtment oF technical education and 
tRaining 
01. Name of the candidate :
  (i) Name with initials, initials at the end (in block capital 
   letters) :––––––––––.
  (ii) full name (in block capital letters) :––––––––––.
  (iii) full Name (in Sinhala/t amil) :––––––––––.
02. address and telephone Number :
  (i) Official Address :––––––––––.
   t elephone Number :––––––––––.
  (ii) Private address :––––––––––.
   t elephone Number :––––––––––.
   (any change in the address or telephone number,  
  should be informed immediately)
03.  date of Birth : 
 y ear :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––. date :––––––––––.
04. age as at closing date of applications :
 y ears :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––, days :–––––––––.
05. National identity card Number :––––––––––.
06. Sex - Male/female :––––––––––.
07. Whether married/unmarried/widow :––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications : 
 G. c. E. (o/L) Examination : 
 y ear :––––––––––.    index No. :––––––––––.
 Subject Grade
G. c. E. (a/L) Examination :
 y ear :––––––––––.    index No. :––––––––––.
 Subject Grade

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
7
09. V ocational Qualifications : 
 examination/ Year Subjects Grade Name of the 
 Diploma    Institute/
 Course    University
10. Particulars of Experience : 
 Institution,  Post Period of  Whether Government/
 worked  Service Government Registered 
    Institution 
11. if you are a citizen of Sri Lanka state by decent or registration 
 (if registration, state details) :––––––––––.
12. Whether you have been dismissed from government post, 
that you had been holding ? :––––––––––.
13. if you are already in Public Service, are there any departmental 
disciplinary inquiries against you ? :––––––––––.
14. Whether you have been convicted in a court ? if so, state 
details. 
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this 
application are true and accurate. i am aware that if any particulars 
contained there in are found to be false and incorrect before 
the selection i am liable to disqualify and dismissal, without 
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment. 
  –––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
15. attestation of the signature of the candidate : 
i do hereby certify that Mrs./Miss ........................... is 
personally known to me and placed her signature in my presence 
on .................................
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of certifying officer. 
(this part is applicable only for candidates who engage in 
government employment)
attestation of the Head of the department/institution : 
i hereby certify that Mrs./Miss ........................... who is 
working in this Ministry/department/institution is working 
in the post of ............................ and her work and conduct are 
satisfactory, no disciplinary action pending against her and no 
decision has been taken to impose any such in future. if she will 
be selected for this post, she can/cannot be released from the 
service. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the 
  Department or Authorized Officer. 
date :––––––––––.
(Seal)
01-150 
 
 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy  Of  EDuCATION 
Recruitment of Western music Graduates for Western 
music Teacher Vacancies in Government Schools in 
the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service – 2015 
aPPLicatioNS are invited from eligible western music 
graduates for the recruitment to grade 3 - 1 of Sri Lanka teachers’ 
Service for teaching western music in government schools in the 
island as per the service minute of Sri Lanka teachers’ Service. 
01 eligibilities :- 
1.1 General Qualifications :
 (i)  Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka 
 (ii) Should have a good character and a good mental 
and physical health 
 (iii)  Should not be less than 18 years and more than 35 
years of age at 14.01.2016 
1.2 Educational Qualifications and Basic Qualifications 
expected  :
 (i) Should have possessed a degree in Western 
Music with the practical training from any 
university recognized by the university Grants 
commission at 14.01.2016 as per Sri Lanka 
teachers’ Service Minute. 
 (ii) as per the policy accepted by the Ministry of 
Education, G.c.E. (o/L) and G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination should be passed as follows :–
*  Should have passed Sinhala language or tamil 
language as a subject in not more than two times 
within 2 consecutive years at the G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
8
* Should have passed three subjects (excluding the 
general examination) at one sitting under the new 
syllabus at the G.c.E. (a/L) examination. 
Note: those passed the examinations recognized equally 
as G.c.E. (o/L) and G.c.E. (a/L) examinations by 
the commissioner General of Examinations too can 
apply. 
02. Method of Recruitment :
2.1 competitive examination as well as a practical 
examination will be conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations as directed by the 
appointment authority to recruit them in the service 
and eligible individuals will be selected through an 
interview to award appointments for the existing 
teacher vacancies, based on school based method 
as per the priority of the total of the total marks 
obtained from such examinations. applicants 
not fulfilling the qualifications appeared in this 
notification will not be called for the interview. 
2.2 Method of awarding marks to select qualified 
individuals at the structured interview and practical 
examination is given in Schedule No. 1. 
SChEDuLE 1  
The candidates fulfil the education of qualifications 
appeared in 1.2 above should appear the structured and practical 
examination consisted of 03 parts as follows conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for the recruitment of 
teachers and at least 120 marks, as 40% from each subject should 
be obtained. 
 (i)  theory of Western Music 
 (ii)  Listening test relevant to Western Music 
 (iii)  Practical test relevant to Western Music 
 according to the priority of the marks scored, 
applicants will be called for an interview to verify 
their qualifications. 
2.3  among the teacher vacancies indicated in Schedule 
2, one candidate can apply for only 03 schools and 
the school and order cannot be changed as per own 
consent. 
2.4  Syllabus Pertaining to the Competitive examination.– 
there are two question papers prescribed for this 
examination. Both question papers consist of 
multiple choice and short answer type questions as 
follows. all the candidates are compulsory to sit 
both question papers. at least 40 marks per question 
paper should be obtained, if to pass the examination. 
01. aptitude test – time 01 ½ hours (100 marks). 
 this question paper is prepared to evaluate 
the skills and logical intelligence for teaching 
profession of the candidate and to evaluate the 
efficiency in taking decisions. 
02. General Knowledge – time 01 ½ hours (100 
marks).
 a  question paper consisted of 50 questions 
with multiple choice and short answer type 
questions to evaluate the general knowledge 
on the teaching sector and/or education trends 
experienced locally and general knowledge on 
educational reforms.
2.5  Method and Medium of the examination.– this 
examination will only be conducted in Sinhala and 
tamil media. 
Note: When the number of applicants exceed the 
number of vacancies pertaining to the subject 
existing in the school applied for, priority will be 
given as per the order of the marks obtained at 
the competitive examination and practical and 
structured interview When several candidates 
applied for the same school has obtained equal 
marks, priority will be given as per the distance 
to the school. Only the candidates eligible subject 
to these specification will be recruited. 
2.6  the selected candidates will be recruited to Grade 
3 – 1(a) of Sri Lanka teachers’ Service subject 
to general conditions controlling government 
appointments, conditions enforced by the service 
minute of Sri Lanka teachers’ Service and the 
revisions already been made or will be made to the 
said service minute. the monthly salary pertaining 
to this post will be as per the Public administration 
circular No. 6/2006 (Xii) dated 02.12.2014 and 
the method of salary for this will be a monthly 
remuneration of Rs. 13,410 -145 x 6 – 180 x 7 – 
215 x 2 - Rs 15,970/- under salary segment G-E-1-
2006. you will be initiated in the monthly salary of                
Rs. 15,540 which is the 14th step in this salary scale. 
2.7  this post is permanent and pensionable. 
2.8  Recruitments will be made as per provisions stated 
in 7.2.3.4. of Sri Lanka teachers’ Service Minute 
published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1885/38 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
on 23.10.2014 and promotions will be made as per 
the service minute of Sri Lanka teachers’ Service 
Minute. if any particular fact is not covered by 
this Gazette notification, they will be subject to 
provisions of Sri Lanka teachers’ Service Minute.
 
03. Method of Application :
3.1 application should be prepared in consistent with the 
specimen application annexed to this notification and 
the same prepared on both sides using an a4 sheet 
shall be completed by the applicant himself. it should 
be specially taken into consideration that heading 1.0 
to 7.4 of the application should be appeared on the 
first page whereas the other headings from 8.0 may be 
on the other pages. applications inconsistent with the 
specimen application and incomplete applications will 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
9
be rejected without notice. (Keeping a photocopy of 
the application will be of use). the applicant should 
be sure to see whether the prepared application is in 
consistent with the specimen application. otherwise 
the applications may be rejected. Name of the 
examination on the application should be appeared in 
English apart from in Sinhala in Sinhala applications 
and in tamil in tamil applications. 
3.2 the subject applied or the order of the schools will not 
be changed however and no appeals in that regard too 
will be dealt with. 
3.3 one candidate can only submit one application. 
3.4 the signature of the applicant in the application should 
have to be attested by a principal of a government 
schools, a Justice of Peace, a commissioner for 
oaths, an attorney – at – Law, a Notary Public, a 
Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an officer 
holding a Gazetted post in the Police service or an 
officer holding a permanent post in the government 
obtaining more than a basic yearly salary of                                 
Rs. 240,360.
 
3.5 accurately completed applications should be sent 
to “commissioner General of Examinations, 
organizations and foreign Examinations division, Sri 
Lanka department of Examinations, P.o. Box 1503, 
colombo” by registered post to reach on or before 
14.01.2016. it is compulsory to indicate “Recruitment 
of Western Music Graduates for Western Music 
teacher Vacancies in Government Schools in the Sri 
Lanka teachers’ Service – 2015” on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope containing the application. 
3.6 all incomplete applications will be rejected. No 
consideration will be made with regard to complaints 
pertaining to loss or delay of applications in post. 
3.7  No notification of receipt of applications will be sent. 
Sri Lanka department of Examinations will publish 
a newspaper notification indicating the issuance of 
admissions as soon as the issuance of admissions to 
the candidates. if the admission was not received even 
after 2 or 3 days from the issuance of admissions, Sri 
Lanka department of Examinations should have to be 
informed of the same. it will be much productive to 
inform Sri Lanka department of Examinations with a 
certified copies of the application and the invoice kept 
with you along with the invoice of registration of the 
application and a fax number to send the admission if 
you are in a remote area away from colombo. 
04. entrance to the examination: 
4.1  the commissioner General of Examinations may 
issue admissions to candidates within the age limit 
indicated in the notification and have submitted 
accurately completed applications with the 
relevant receipt paid the precise examination fees 
on or before the closing date of the applications. a 
candidate appearing the examination may submit 
the admission with their signature been attested to 
the head of the examination hall. No permission 
will be given to sit the examination to those not 
submitted as such. 
4.2  an applicant shall appear the examination 
entitled for him/ her. attesting the signature of 
the admission pertaining to the examination hall, 
every candidate should hand over the same to the 
head of the examination hall on the first day he/she 
appearing the examination in that particular hall. 
the candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
pertaining to conducting the examination enforced 
by the commissioner General of Examinations. 
He/she has to be subject to a penalty enforced 
by the commissioner General of Examinations if 
violated the said rules and regulations. 
Note.– issuance of an admission to a candidate cannot be 
considered as an acceptance of fulfilling qualifications 
to sit the examination. 
05. Identity of the Candidates.– a candidate shall prove his 
/ her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
head of the examination hall with regard to every subject he/she 
appears. only one of the following documents will be accepted 
in that regard :
(a) National identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons,
(b) a  valid passport.
06. Penalty for Submitting False Information :
6.1  If a candidate reveals to have no qualifications 
before or during time of the examination or after 
the examination or at any time, his candidature can 
be cancelled. if any particular fact a candidate has 
submitted is proved false, or that he/she has veiled 
an important fact on purpose, he is subject to be 
dismissed from service. 
07. examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500. the 
invoice obtained by paying the amount under income head                
No. 2003-02-13 to any Post /Sub – post office in the Island to 
the name of the candidate should be pasted where necessary and 
the number of the invoice should also be indicated. (Keeping 
a photocopy of the voucher will be of importance). No money 
orders or stamps will be accepted as examination fees. the fee 
paid on behalf of the examination will not be refunded under any 
circumstances or no transfer of that amount will be made for any 
other examination. 
08. Directions to Fill the Application.– Please utilize the 
following Schedule for filling the application. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
10
SuB-docuMENt - 2 
stated below aRe the teacheR vacancies that exist in 
westeRn music 
RecRuitment oF westeRn music teacheRs
 Serial National Schools – Western Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 1 d.S.Senanayake Vidyalaya colombo -07  1
 2 St. John’s Vidyalaya Kalutara  1
   total 2
 Serial National Schools – Southern Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 3 Sri devananda Vidyalaya ambalangoda  1
 4 Ruhunu Vijayaba Maha Vidyalaya  1
 5 ananda Madya Maha Vidyalaya Elpitiya  1
 6 Karandeniya Madya Maha Vidyalaya  1
  Karandeniya 
 7 Batemulla Madya Maha Vidyalaya imaduwa  1
 8 devapathiraja Vidyalaya Ratgama  1
 9 Sri Sumangala Madya Maha Vidyalaya  1
  Hikkaduwa 
 10 Sri Lanka Singapore friendship School  1
  Weeraketiya 
 11 Sri Revatha National School ambalangoda  1
 12 dharmashoka Vidyalaya ambalangoda  1
 13 d eniyaya Madya Maha Vidyalaya deniyaya  1
 14 Keerthi abeywickrama Madya Maha  1
  Vidyalaya Morawaka 
 15 St. Mary’s National School Hambantota  1
 16 debarawewa National school  1
  t issamaharamaya 
 17 Suriyawewa National School Suriyawewa  1
 18 Weeraketiya Madya Maha Vidyalaya  1
  Hambantota 
 19 t elijjawila Madya Maha Vidyalaya Matara  1
 20 Walasmulla National School Walasmulla  1
 21 t angalle Balika Vidyalaya tangalle  1
 22 urubokka Madya Maha Vidyalaya  1
  urubokka 1
        t otal 20
 Serial National Schools – Central Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 23 amupitiya Mad ya Maha Vidyalaya 1
 24 t eldeniya Madya Maha Vidyalaya 1
   t eldeniya
 25 Wijaya National School Matale 1
 26 Kristhudeva National School Matale 1
 27 Sri Sumangala National School Walapane 1
 28 Pakyam tamil National School Matale 1
 29 Sri Naga National School Naula 1
 30 Nugawela Balika Madya Maha 1
   Vidyalaya Kandy
         t otal 8
 Serial National Schools – Wayamba Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 31 Wickramashila National School Giriulla 1
 32 ananda Madyama Maha  Vidyalaya chilaw 1
 33 ananda National School Puttlam 1
 34 Senanayake National School Madampe 1
 35 S. W. R. d. Bandaranayaka Vidyalaya 1
          t otal 5
 Serial National Schools – Uva  Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 36 Welimada Maha Vidyalaya Welimada 1
 37 St. Joseph’s Vidyalaya Bandarawela 1
 38 Kandegedara Maha Vidyalaya Kandegedera 1
 39 Bandarawela Madya Vidyalaya Bandarawela 1
 40 Kuda Kusum Balika Vidyalaya Bandarawela 1
 41 Passara Madya Maha Vidyalaya Pasara 1
 42 Vishaka Vidalaya Bandarawela 1
 43 Kahagolla Madya Maha Vidyalaya 1
  Kahagolla
 44 Nisshanka Madya Maha Vidyalaya 1
  Badalkumbura
 45 Wellassa National School Wellassa 1
           t otal 10 
 Serial National Schools – eastern Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 46 Vincent Girls' High School Batticaloa 1
 47 Shivananda National School Batticaloa 1
 48 St. Micheal National School Batticaloa 1
 49 Padirippu Madya Maha Vidyalya Batticaloa 1
 50 Sr. Ramakrishna Vidyalaya akkarepattuwa 1
 51 d. S. Senanayake Vidyalaya ampara 1
 52 carmell fatima National School Kalmunei 1
 53 dehiattakandiya National School  1
  dehiattakandiy a
           t otal 8
 Serial National Schools – Central Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
11
 Serial National Schools – North Central Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 Serial Provincial Schools – Central Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 54 Medirigiriya Madya Maha Vidyalaya 1
  Medirigiriya
 55 Rajakeeya Madya Maha Vidyalaya  1
  Polonnaruwa 
 56 ananda Balika Vidyalaya Hingurakgoda 1
        t otal 3
 Serial National Schools – Northern Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 57 Wembadi Girls' High School 1
 58 Hindu Vidyalaya Jaffna 1
 59 Jaffna Madya Maha Vidyalaya Jaffna 1
 60 St. Xavier Balika Vidyalaya Mannar 1
 61 St. Xavier Boys' School Mannar 1
        t otal 5
 Serial National Schools – Sabaragamuwa Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 62 Embilipitiya Janadhipathi National School 1
  Embilipitiya
 63 Kalawana National School Kalawana 1
 64 K/dudley Senanayake National School 1
 65 Jeilani Madya Maha Vidyalaya  1
  dehigastalawa
 66 Kolonna Madya Maha Vidyalaya 1
        t otal 5
Serial Provincial  Schools – Western Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 67 all Saints Balika Vidyalaya colombo 08 1
 68 Jayawardenapura Boy's School Kotte 1
 69 St. Mary' Balika Vidyalaya Negombo 1
 70 Nalanda Balika Maha Vidyalaya  1
  Minuwangoda
 71 Biyagama Madya Maha Vidyalaya -  1
  Biyagama
        t otal 5
 Serial Provincial Schools – Southern Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 72 all Saints Vidyalaya Galle 1
 73 Janadhipathi Vidyalaya Matara 1
 74 akuressa Madya Maha Vidyalaya akuressa 1
 75 Methodist Maha Vidyalaya Marawila 1
 76 Puwakdanda Madya Maha Vidyalaya Beliatta 1
        t otal 5
 77 Galewela Madya Maha Vidyalaya Galewela 1
 78 St. anthony's college Kandy 1
 79 Good Shepard convent Nuwaraeliya 1
 80 St. Sylvester's college Kandy 1
 81 St. anthony's Balika Vidyalaya Kandy 1
 82 Peradeniya Madya Maha Vidyalaya 1
  Peradeniya 
 83 Wariyapola Sri Sumangala MMV Kandy 1
 84 Wattegama Balika Vidyalaya Wattegama 1
          t otal 8
 Serial Provincial Schools – Wayamba Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 85 Marawila St. Xavier's Vidyalaya  1
  Naththandiya
          t otal 1
 Serial Provincial Schools – Uva Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 
 86 Giradurukotte Madya Maha Vidyalaya 1
  Giradurukotte
 87 Viharamahadevi Balika Maha Vidyalaya 1
  Badulla
        t otal 2
 Serial Provincial Schools – eastern Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 88 Methodist Madya Maha Vidyalaya 1
  Batticaloa
 89 Hindu Vidyalaya Batticaloa 1
 90 Vivekananda Balika Maha Vidyalaya   1
  Batticaloa
         t otal 3
 Serial Provincial Schools – North Central Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 91 Giritalegama Maha Vidyalaya 1
 92 St. Joseph Maha Vidyalaya anuradhapura 1
 93 Mihintale Maha Vidyalaya 1
         t otal 3
 Serial Provincial Schools – Northern Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
 94 Holy family convent 1

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
12
 95 Sri Buddha Jayanthi MMV Balangoda 1
 96 Karagastalawa MV Belihul oya 1
 97 udugama MV Pinnawala Balangoda 1
 98 Sri/Walagamba MV Weligepola Balangoda 1
 99 Vidyakara MV opanayake 1
 100 chandrikawewa Jayanthi MV Padalangala 1
 101 colombageara MV colombageara 1
 102 Embilipitiya MV Embilipitiya 1
 103 Moraketiya MV Embilipitiya 1
 104 udawalawa MV udawalawa 1
 105 Ratnaloka MV Rakwana 1
 106 Kella MV Kolonna 1
 107 Wijeriya Sumana MV Wijeriya 1
 108 a yagama Sri Rahula MMV Ratnapura 1
 109 Kahawatte MMV Kahawatte 1
 110 Kalawana Gamini MMV Koswatte Kalawana 1
 111 Meepagama Jayanthi MV Kalawana 1
 112 Elapatha MV Elapatha Ratnapura 1
 113 Sri Ratnakara MV udakarawita 1
 114 Sri Jinarathana MV Karadana 1
 115 Siddhartha MV Getahetta 1
 116 Kiriella Gamini MV Kiriella 1
 117 Kuruwita MMV Kuruwita 1
 118 dharmaloka MV Pelmadulla 1
 119 Kumara Vidyalaya Ratnapura 1
 120 Babarabotuwa MV Wewelwatta Ratnapura 1
 121 t alduwa Buddhist MV awissawella 1
 122 amithirigala MV amithirigala 1
 123 Waharaka MV 1
 124 Ratnawali MV Mattamagoda Kannantota 1
 125 Siriwardena MV yatiyantota 1
 126 dedigama Perakumba MV  1
 127 Galigamuwa MMV Galigamuwa New town 1
 128 Bandaranayake MV Hettimulla 1
 129 Mabopitiya MV Mabopitiay undugoda 1
 130 Mahanaga MV Ranwala Kegalle 1
 131 Swarnajayanthi MV Kegalle 1 
 132 algama MMV algama 1
 133 Babul Hashin Muslim MV Warakapola 1
 134 dharmasiri Senanayake MV thulhiriya 1
 135 Siriniwasa MV dorawaka 1
 136 Rajagiri MV dippitiya aranayake 1
 137 Baduriya Muslim MV Mawanella 1
 138 Nagaragiri MV Hemmathagama 1
 139 asoka MV Kiriwellpitiya Rambukkana 1
 140 Parakrama MV Rambukkana 1
 141 Kularatne MMV Godakawela 1
 142 Sri Sumana MV Ratnapura 1
 143 al azar Muslim MV Hungama 
   Hemmathagama 1
          t otal 49
 Serial Provincial Schools – Sabaragamuwa Number  
 No. Province  of
   Vacancies
09. Officers already in service are compulsroy to submit their 
certified application thorugh the head of their department under 
heading 13 of the application. 
10. No consideration will be made with regard to applicants 
not participated on the precise date of the interview. 
11. In addition, no certificate submitted after the date of the 
interview will be accepted. 
12. Secretary of the Ministry of Education reserves the right 
to take the final decision to decide any particular fact not covered 
in this notification and to fill or not to fill a portion or all the 
vacancies.
 W. M. 
bandusena, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education. 
at the Ministry of Education, 
15th december, 2015. 
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM 
    
             For office use 
RecRuitment oF westeRn music gRaduates FoR westeRn music 
teacheR vacancies in goveRnmetn schools in the sRi lanka 
teacheRs' seRvice - 2015
01. Languages Medium (Write in the relevant cage)
   Sinhala Medium  - 2
   t amil Medium - 3
02.
 Serial No. Province Name of the School 
1.
2.
3.
(the three schools applied for as per the Schedule 2 and the 
applicable Serial No. to it should be written as per the 
preference order and this order will not be changed anyhow)
03.  3.1 Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
   (ex. : aMaRaKooN  MudiyaNSEaLGE   
   NaMaL   HERatH)
  3,2 Last name at the beginning with initials of the other  
  names at the end (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
04. National identity card No. : 
05. current address (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
 (admissions will be posted to this address)
06.  6.1 Sex : 
   (female - 1,  Male - 2) 
   (write in the relevant cage)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
13
  6.2 Marital Status : 
   (Married - 1,  unmarried - 2)
   (Write in the relevant cage)
  6.3 date of Birth : 
  
 
    y ear  Month     date
  6.4 age as at 14.01.2016 : 
   
   y ears :     Months :     days :
07. Details on Eeducational Qualifications :
G. c. E. (o/L) Examination G. c. E. (a/L) Examination 
year :   year :
index No. : index No. :
1    5
2    6
3    7
4    8
08. Details on Higher Education Qualifications :
  8.1 degree :––––––––––––.
  8.2 unviersity of issue :––––––––––––.
  8.3 Valid date of the degree 
  8.4 Subject/subjects undergone for degree 
  8.5 Medium of the degree
09.  09.1 Examination fee paid Rs. (in words) :–––––––––––.
  09.2 No. of the invoice :––––––––––––.
  09.3 Issuing office :––––––––––––.
  09.4 date :––––––––––––.
Keep a photocopy of the invoice with you. 
Paste the invoice firmly from one side of the invoice here. 
10. this is to state that the information submitted herewith are 
true to my knowledge. i am aware that i will be dismissed 
from service after selection if proved not suitable. 
furthermore, i agree to abide by the rules and regulations 
enforced by the commissioner General of Examinations with 
regard to conducting the examination. No information in this 
will be changed later. in addition, i agree to abide by the rules 
and regulations enforced by the commissioner General of 
Examinations with regard to cnducting the examination and 
issuance of results. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
11.  attesting the Signature of the applicant : 
i certify that Mr./Mr./Miss .................................. forwarding 
this application is known to me personally, that he/she had placed 
his/her signature on .......................... in my presence and has paid 
precise examination fee and pasted the relevant invoice as well. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester. 
date :––––––––––––.
Name of the attester:––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
12. If the applicant is a government servant, the certification of 
the Head of the department : 
the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. is 
forwarded herewith. He/She is a permanent/temporary/causal 
servant of this ministry/department and he/she can be released/
cannot be released from service if selected for this post. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Head of Department/Authroized Officer. 
date :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
Ministry/department :––––––––––––.
(Confirm with the official stamp
01-83
LImITED  COmPETITIVE  ExAmINATION  fOR
RECRuITmENT  TO  CLASS  III  Of  ThE
 SRI LANkA  EDuCATION  ADmINISTRATIVE 
SERVICE
by Order of the Public Service 
Commission 2015 / 2016
aPPLicatioNS are called, on the direction of the Public 
Service Commission, from the following suitable officers for the 
limited competitive examination to fill existing 515 vacancies 
in class iii of the Sri Lanka Education administrative Service. 
applications prepared according to the format given at the end of 
this notice should be forwarded on or before the date given below 
to the commissioner General of Examinations, organizations 
and foreign Examinations Branch, department of Examinations, 
Post Box 1503, colombo, under registered cover. the top left 
hand corner of the envelope should clearly carry the words 
“Limited competitive Examination for Recruitment to class 
iii of the Sri Lanka Education administrative Service – 2015 / 
2016”. further, the name of the examination should be written 
in Sinhala applications in addition to Sinhala in English, and in 
tamil applications in addition to tamil in English.
the closing date of applications: - 01.02.2016.
Note-No complaints shall be considered to the effect that 
an application or documents connected therewith were lost or 
delayed in the post. any loss that may result by delaying the 
application to the last date will have to be borne by the applicant.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
14
1. Method of Recruitment :
(a) Qualified applicants from those who sat for all subjects 
shall be called for an interview for recruitment. total 
number of applicants calling for the interview shall 
be equal to the number of vacancies and 50% thereof. 
Marks of the written examination shall not be given 
to the interview board. the criteria of marks for the 
interview have been given in the paragraph No. 10 of 
this notification. Existing number of vacancies in class 
III shall be filled according to the merits of total marks 
obtained for the written examination and the interview. 
The Public Service Commission has the right to fill all or 
a certain number of vacancies. 
 Selected applicants from the limited competitive 
examination shall be placed in Southern, Sabaragamuwa, 
central, Wayamba, North central, uva, Eastern and 
Northern provinces to fill in following vacancies. 
 Subject No. of Vacancies
General carder 79
Sinhala 40
tamil 41
English 37
Mathematics 25
Science 26
commerce 15
Health Studies 38
Buddhism 23
christianity 2
Hindu 3
islam 2
Planning 31
information technology 10
Guidance and counselling 8
Western Music 5
arts 5
dancing 7
Special Education 32
Primary Education 59
History 17
agriculture 05
Home Science 04
Engineering technology 02
2. Conditions of employment in the service :
 (i) Subject to the conditions set out in the service minute of 
the Sri Lanka Education administrative Service published 
in the Gazette Extra-ordinary of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1928/28 dated 21.08.2015 
and the amendments made thereafter to the said service 
minute, and subject to the general conditions governing 
appointments to the government service, the selected 
candidates shall be appointed to class iii of the service. 
 (ii) this post is permanent and pensionable.contributions 
have to be paid for the Widows’/Widowers’ and orphans’ 
Pension (W&oP).
 (iii) Officers appointed to this post are subject to a 
probationary period of one year.
 (iv) if a person appointed to the General cadre has not served 
as a principal of a government school for a minimum 
period of 3 years prior to the appointment, she/he should, 
upon his appointment, serve a minimum period of 3 years 
as a principal of a government school. When the period 
of service is less than 3 years, the period that she/he has 
to serve as a principal shall be equal to the difference 
between her/his period of service and 3 years. 
 (v) The officers appointed to the posts of class iii shall be 
placed as per existing service requirements to the posts 
in the central government or provincial public service.
 (vi) 
Language Expected Proficiency level
National Officers who joined the service in a  
Language language other than an official language  
 should obtain proficiency in one official  
 language prior to be made permanent in the  
 post
other National in accordance with the provisions of Public
Language  administrative circulars 01/2014 and   
 circulars thereof, the level of proficiency in  
 respect of the other language should be   
 obtained
Link Language Within three (3) years of the date of  
   recruitment the proficiency in the link  
   language (English Language) should   
 be obtained. annexure 7 of the service 
   minute of Sri Lanka Education 
   administrative Service describes the 
   relevant examination on link language.
   Note: if an officer has obtained a credit pass 
   or above at G.c.E. (o/L) examination or 
   being recruited to the administrative service 
   in English medium she/he will be exempted 
   from the requirement of link language.
(vii) the procedural rules of the Public Service commission, 
circulars issued from time to time governing the Public Service 
and the conditions of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka 
Education administrative Service with its amendments are 
applicable to this post.
3. Salary Scale.– this post is entitled to the salary scale                     
SL-1-2006 Rs. 22,935 – 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1050-                             
Rs. 53,555 (monthly) in terms of the Public administrative Salary 
circular No. 6/2006.
4. eligibility :
4.1.teachers / Principals currently serving in government 
schools, government approved assisted schools and 
pirivena AND who have adequately satisfied following 
qualifications are eligible to appear the limited competitive 
examination. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
15
4.1 Educational Qualifications :
(a)  General cadre :
 (i) a graduate teacher with a degree from a recognized 
university or the National institute of Education, OR
 (ii) A teacher with the certificate of National Diploma in 
Teacher Training or Trained Teacher Certificate, OR
 (iii) An officer belongs to the Sri Lanka Principals’ 
Service
(b)  Special Cadre :
 (i) a graduate teacher with a degree from a recognized 
university for the relevant subject, OR
 (ii) A teacher with the certificate of National Diploma in 
Teacher Training or Trained Teachers’ Certificate for 
the relevant subject, OR
 (iii) for Engineering technology under the technological 
stream, a teacher with the four year Higher National 
diploma in Engineering (HNdE) offered by the 
Sri Lanka institute of advanced technological 
Education OR three year National diploma in 
technology (Ndt) offered by the university of 
Moratuwa, OR four year National diploma on 
Engineering offered by technical training institute  
in Katunayake, OR diploma in technology (dt) 
offered by open university of Sri Lanka, OR having 
National V ocational Qualifications Level 6 (NVQ 
Level 6) offered by the institutions approved by Sri 
Lanka tertiary and V ocational training commission.
5. experience :
5.1. General cadre
  t o apply under the General cadre the applicant must 
be,
 (i) A graduate teacher with at least five (05) year recent 
active and satisfactory period of service with adequate 
teaching experience, OR
 (ii) A teacher with the certificate of National Diploma 
in Teacher Training OR Trained Teachers’ certificate 
with at least seven (07) year recent active and 
satisfactory period of service and adequate teaching 
experience, OR
 (iii) a graduate teacher with a degree from a university 
approved by the university Grant commission 
AND the certificate of National Diploma in Teacher 
training OR Trained Teachers’ certificate with at 
least five (05) year recent active and satisfactory 
period of service with adequate teaching experience, 
OR
(iv) An officer belongs to Sri Lanka Principals’ Service 
with five (05) year recent active and satisfactory 
period of service in a position related to the Sri Lanka 
Principals’ Service.  
5.2. Special cadre
  t o apply under the Special cadre the applicant must 
be -
 (i) A graduate teacher with at least five (05) year 
recent active and satisfactory period of service 
and adequate teaching experience in the relevant 
subject, OR
 (ii) a graduate teacher with a degree from a university 
approved by the university Grant commission 
AND National diploma in teacher training 
Certificate OR Trained Teachers’ certificate for the 
relevant subject AND having at least five (05) year 
recent active and satisfactory period of service with 
adequate teaching experience in the subject applied 
for. 
 (iii) a teacher with National diploma in teacher 
Training Certificate OR t rained t eachers’ 
certificatein the relevant subject AND at least seven 
(07) year recent active and satisfactory period of 
service with adequate teaching experience for the 
subject applied. 
 (iv) However, for Special Education /t echnology /
Physical Education and Western Music, in case of 
a teacher with the certificate of National Diploma 
in teacher training OR Trained Teachers’ certificate 
with not less than seven (07) year period of service, 
she / he must possess at least three (03) year recent, 
active and satisfactory period of service after being 
appointed in the relevant subject/subject area. 
 (v)  for those who apply under the Engineering 
Technology category must have fulfilled relevant 
qualifications in Teacher Service with at least three 
(03) year recent, active and satisfactory period of 
service with adequate teaching experience in the 
subject applied for. 
6.  Age Limit.– Not more than fifty years (50) of age on the 
closing date of application
7.  Physical suitability.– all applicants must be physically and 
mentally fit to serve and perform the duties attached to the post in 
any part of the island.
8. Other Qualifications :
 (i) No applicant is allowed to sit for the limited 
competitive examination more than (03) times and 
for both limited and open competitive examinations 
more than five (05) times. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
16
(ii) Each applicant must possess all prescribed qualifications
to the given date as at this Gazette notification to be
recruited to the Sri Lanka Education Administrative
Service.
(iii) Each applicant must have passed the first efficiency bar
in the service she/he is being eligible to apply.
(iv) The applicant should have been made permanent in the
service she/he is being eligible to apply
(v) A satisfactory period of service must have been completed
in immediately preceding five (05) years.
(vi) The applicant is considered to be having a satisfactory
period of service if she/he has not undergone any
punishment for an offence "except warnings" during this
period. (No officer is deemed to be disqualified as a result
of not obtaining salary increments only due to the failure
of passing an examination in the service or a departmental
examination)
(vii) Any officer who has been interdicted by the closing date
of applications is not qualified to apply for this
examination.
9. Method of Application :
(i) The Class III of the service consists of 'General' and
'Special' Cadres. In addition to the General Cadre, the
candidates can also apply for the vacancies in the fields
of the Special Cadre referred to in Paragraph iii (b) below.
If applying under the Special Cadre, it is compulsory to
fulfill the qualifications given in 4.1 (b)above and
moreover, 1/3 of the total number of subjects offered for
the degree should be relevant to the subject applied for.
(ii) In the event of an applicant is selected for the General
Cadre as well as for several subjects in the Special Cadre,
the Public Service Commission has the right to decide the
subject for which the recruitment is made.
(iii) The subjects and the codes assigned to General and Special
Cadres are given below. The subjects applied for and the
codes assigned should be mentioned in the relevant cage
in the application.
Code Number
(a) General Cadre 11
(b) Special Cadre
Subject Area
Sinhala 21
Tamil 22
English 23
Mathematics 24
Science 25
Commerce 26
Information Technology 27
Physical Education 28
Buddhism 29
Christianity 30
Hindu 31
Islam 32
Student Guidance and Counselling 33
Music 34
Dancing 35
Arts 36
Special Education 37
Planning 38
Primary Education 39
History 40
Agriculture 41
Home Science 42
Engineering Technology 43
N.B.– Except the qualifications given in 4.1(b), those who
possess a Masters' or a Bachelors' degree in Special
Education can also apply for the Special Education
vacancies in limited cadre under the limited competitive
examination.
Those who apply for the planning subject under special
cadre should possess at least one of the following
subject are as the main subject area of their degree.
* Statistics
* Mathematics
* Management
* Education, Principals and Comparative Education
* Sociology
* Biology
* Physics
* Economics
10. Method of Recruitment :
10.1. Written Examination :
10.1.1. This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
10.1.2. Syllabus:
The written examination comprises of (03) three
papers. A 40% of minimum marks should be obtained
to pass each paper.
1. Subject Number 01.– General Knowledge and
Intelligence - Time One hour and thirty minutes,
Marks (100)
The test on intelligence ascertains the applicant's
power of logical thinking. The questions on
general knowledge tests the applicant's
knowledge on Political, Social, Cultural and
Economic environment of Sri Lanka in which
the applicant lives and works. Moreover, these
questions will test her/his knowledge on the
contemporary events that are nationally and

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
17
internationally significant as well as on the
developments in science and technology. This
paper consists of 60 questions of multiple-choice
and short answer types. (All questions need to
be answered)
2. Subject Number 02.– Comparative Education -
Time One hour (Marks 100)
This paper expects the knowledge and
comparative analysis of Education Policies of
Sri Lanka, Decentralization of Power, recent
trends in education as well as the education
systems of other countries.
3. Subject Number 03.– Education Administration
and Management - Time One hour (Marks 100)
Some circumstances that could occur in the field
of education administration/ management will
be presented and applicants' response in such
events as well as her / his capability and capacity
of conflict resolution will be tested.
10.2. Viva Voce Test :
(i) An interview board appointed by the Public Service
Commission will conduct a viva voce test to examine
the knowledge and ability on teaching learning process,
reasoning and problem solving and communication
skills and personality of the applicants,who obtain
necessary marks from written examination, using
following criterion. Here, the maximum marks awarded
will be twenty five (25).
Subject Area Maximum Marks
Knowledge on teaching learning process 07
Reasoning and Problem Solving 07
Communication Skills 07
Personality 04
Total 25
(ii) If the number of qualified applicants is not equal to the
number given in paragraph 01above, only qualified
applicants will be called for the viva voce test.
(iii) A general interview to ascertain applicant's
qualifications will be held before the viva voce test and
no marks will be awarded there. The applicants, who
prove at the general interview that they have obtained
all qualifications as per this Gazette Notification shall
only be called for the viva voce test. If it is revealed
that some applicants, who appear for the general
interview, do not satisfy the necessary qualifications
to be called for the viva voce test, no other applicants
shall be called againin their place for the general
interview.
10.3. Releasing Examination results.– According to 01) a. of
this notification the list of selected applicants prepared
according to merits from both written examination and
viva voce test will be sent to the Secretary, Public Service
Commission. Thereafter, as directed by the Public Service
Commission, the results will be either sent personally to
the applicants or published on www.results.exams.gov.lk;
the official website of the Department of Examinations for
results release.
11. Examination Conditions :
(i) The examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, Tamil
and English media. A candidate can appear for the
examination in only one language of her/his choice.All
question papers have to be answered in the same medium.
Candidates will not be permitted to change the medium of
examination given in her/his application.
(ii) The examination fee,which is Rs.1000/- could be paid at
any post office in the island to the credit of Revenue Head
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
A margin of the original receipt obtained in the candidate's
own name should be firmly pasted to the place specified in
the application form. It would be advisable to retain a
photocopy of this receipt.
(iii) The examination fees shall not be refunded for any reason.
(iv) This examination will be held in Colombo.The date of the
examination will be notified later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.
On the assumption that only those who fulfill necessary
qualifications as per this Gazette Notification have applied
for the examination, the applicants, who are below the
specified age limit and submit their duly completed
applications on or before the closing date of applications
with the receipt of duly paid examination fees attached
and include requested information such as medium of
examination, the cadre applied, and completed the relevant
grid of information with the recommendations of the
Principal and the Head of the Department shall receive an
admission card from the commissioner general of
examinations.
Note: Entering to the examination hall will not be permitted
without an admission card. Only an admission card
with the attested signature of the candidate should be
presented to the supervisor of the examination hall on
the first day examination.
Issuing an admission card to a candidate for the examination
should not be taken as an acknowledgement that the
candidate has satisfied the qualifications required to sit
for the examination.
(vi) The application should be prepared on A4 paper of the
size 22-29 cm. Headings 01 to 04 should be entered on the
first page, 05 to 06 on the second page and the rest on page

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
18
three and four. The relevant particulars should be entered
very clearly in candidate's own handwriting. Applications,
which do not conform to the specimen application given at
the end of this Gazette Notification and incomplete
applications will be rejected without any notice. It would
be advisable to retain a copy of the application. Further,
the candidate should satisfy herself / himself that the
completed application conforms to the specimen
application before submitting. All applicants should
thoroughly learn that the applications do not conform to
the given specimen will be rejected.
(vii) Department of Examinations will publish a paper
notification as soon as the admission cards are issued.  If
the admission card is not received by any of the applicants
at least five (05) days prior to the date of examination, an
inquiry should be made from the organizations and foreign
examinations branch of the Department of Examinations
in the manner stated in the paper notice. In the said inquiry,
the name of the examination applied, full name of the
applicant, national identity card number, and the address
should be correctly mentioned. In case of the applicant
lives outside Colombo, it is advisable to send the request
by fax with the said details and a fax number of the
applicant. In such cases, it is important to keep a copy of
the application, a copy of the receipt of examination fees
and the receipt of the registered post at hand to provide
the details requested by the Department of Examinations.
(viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations has the power,
with the approval of the Public Service Commission, to
either postpone or cancel the examination.
(ix) Candidates would be subject to the rules and regulations
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations in
respect to the conduct of the examinations. If these rules
are violated, candidates are bound to undergo any
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
(x) The identification of the candidate:  All candidates should
prove their identity to the satisfaction of the head of the
examination hall. Only one of the following documents
will be accepted for this purpose :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
for the Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport
NB: - (a) No document or a copy thereof should be annexed
to the application.
(b) The applications of candidates who fail to produce
documents when requested to do so will not be
considered.
(xi) If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess any of
the required qualifications, the candidature can be annulled
at any stage before, during or after the examination. If it
comes to light that any fact presented is incorrect after
selection to the post or if any significant fact has been
willfully suppressed, the person in question may be
dismissed from the service.
(xii) Officers in the Public Service / Provincial Public Service
should forward their applications through their heads of
department / institution. It is essential that each candidate
appearing the examination should get her / his signature
attested by the head of the department / institution in
which she / he serves.
(xiii)The final decision on any matter that does not include in
this notice rests with the Public Service Commission.
12. In case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases of this
notice, which is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages,
the Sinhala notice will be considered as the correct one.
W. M. B
ANDUSENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
                       (For office use only)
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha III fY%a‚hg ^idudkH fiajl
ixLHdjg$úfYaI fiajl ixLHdjg& n|jd .ekSfï iSñ; ;r.
úNd.h - 2015$2016
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE 111
(GENERAL / SPECIAL) OF THE SRI LANKA EDUCATION ADMINISTRATIVE
SERVICE - 2015 / 2016
(Submit to Zonal Director of Education in two copies.)
Medium of the Examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (write relevant No. in the cage)
"Cadre" from which the candidate apply for the examination
Only the general cadre - 1
Only the special cadre - 2
For both general and special cadre - 3
(write relevant No. in the cage)
If the cadre applied for is in the special cadre, the serial number of
the subject area should be indicated in the following table. (as per the
Gazette Notification)
Name of the cadre Name of the subject field Serial No.
General ////////////////////////////////////
Special
Special

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
19
01. 1.1 Name in Full (In block letters) :––––––––––––.
(Ex : HERA TH MUDIY ANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA
GUNAW ARDENA)
1.2 Name with last name at the beginning and initials of other
names at the end  (In block letters) :––––––––––––.
(Ex : GUNAWARDENA, H.M.S.K.)
1.3 Name in Full (in Sinhala/Tamil)   :––––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
2.2 Personal Contact No. (if any) :––––––––––––.
2.3 Official Address (In block letters) :––––––––––––.
2.4 Official Contact No. (if any) :––––––––––––.
2.5 Permanent Address  (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.6 Address to which admissions should be posted (In block
letters) :––––––––––––.
3.0 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
 (write relevant No. in the cage)
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 5.1 Nationality :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3
Muslim - 4
Others - 5   (write relevant No. in the cage.)
5.2 Marital Status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(write relevant No. in the cage.)
5.3 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
5.4 Age as at 01.02.2016 :
Years : Months : Days :
6.0 Education Qualifications
(a) (i) Date on which the degree or other qualification was
obtained :––––––––––.
(Valid date)
(ii) Degree / Other Qualification (Name) :––––––––––.
(iii) Main subjects been studied :––––––––––.
(iv) University / Institution :––––––––––.
(v) External / Internal :––––––––––.
(b) (i) Date passed the postgraduate degree :––––––––––.
(ii) Postgraduate degree :––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects studied :––––––––––.
(iv) University / Institution :––––––––––.
7.0 (i) Date of first appointment in the Government Service as
a teacher :––––––––––.
(ii) Subject the said appointment was made to :–––––––––.
(iii) Zone of Education serving at present :––––––––––.
(iv) Period of service at 01.02.2016 :
Years............Months............Days ..............
8.0 (i) Year of the teachers' training :––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the National College of Education / T eachers'
College :––––––––––.
(iii) Date of Validity of the training certificate :––––––––––.
(iv) Subject area trained :––––––––––.
(v) Date of appointment for teaching the subject relevant to
the training :––––––––––.
(vi) Period of service from the said appointment to
01.02.2016 :
Years .........Months ..........Days...........
9.0 Have you been confirmed in the post you are serving at present ?
:––––––––––.
10.0 Indicate the language medium in which you were qualified for
entrance to Government service :––––––––––.
11.0 Examination Fees :
Paste the invoice here by paying examination fees
(Keep a photocopy of the invoice)
12. Number of instances and years sat for limited and open
competitive examinations :
Examination Years No: of occasions
Limited
Open
13. I do herewith state that the information furnished by me herewith
are true to my knowledge and belief, and have affixed the invoice
no:……………. of ……………. paying the examination fees.
In addition, I would herewith agree to act according to the
examination regulations and adhere to the laws and regulations
enforced by the Commissioner General of Examinations and if
revealed disqualified according to the conditions of this
examination, I agree to any decision taken to cancel my
candidature before or at the time of the examination or any
other. Furthermore, I do know that I will be dismissed from
service even if I was revealed to have been disqualified after
selected for this post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
20
Zonal Director of Education,
This is to certify Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………
submitting this application is a teacher serving in my school.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Principal.
(Place the official stamp)
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
This is to certify Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………………..
submitting this application is a teacher of …………………………..,
the details furnished by him/her in the paragraphs from no: 5 to no:
13 are accurate as per his/her personal file in this office, and has
pasted the invoice paying the precise examination fee.
––––––––––––––––––,
Zonal Director of Education /
Provincial Director of Education.
(Place the official stamp)
Date :––––––––––.
01–266/1
––––––––––––––––––––––
THE  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
EDUCATION  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE  ON  THE
BASIS  OF  SERVICE  EXPERIENCE  AND  MERIT
By Order of the Public Service Commission - 2015 / 2016
APPLICATIONS are called, on the direction of the Public Service
Commission, from following suitable officers on the service experience
and merit base to fill existing 118 vacancies in the general cadre of
Class III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service. All
applicants should possess required qualifications as per this notice
up to the closing date of applications. Applications prepared according
to the format given at the end of this notice should be forwarded on
or before the date given below to the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Post Box 1503, Colombo, under
registered cover. The top left hand corner of the envelope should
clearly carry the words “Competitive Examination for Recruitment
to the Class III of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service on
Service Experience and Merit Base - 2015/2016”. Further, the name
of the examination should be written in Sinhala applications in
addition to Sinhala in English, and in Tamil applications in addition
to Tamil in English.
The closing date of applications: - 01.02.2016.
Note-No complaints shall be considered to the effect that an
application or documents connected therewith were lost
or delayed in the post. Any loss that may result by delaying
the application until the closing date will have to be borne
by the applicant.
1. Method of Recruitment :
(a) From those applicants, who have passed both papers
at the written examination, a number of applicants equal
to the number of vacancies available shall be called for
an interview, according to the order of merits as per
aggregate marks obtained for both written examination
and service experience, and the selections shall be made
after examining their qualifications. Public Service
Commission shall decide the date of commencement of
appointment and the number of appointments that will
be made. The Public Service Commission has the right
to fill all or a certain number of vacancies.
(b) If any candidate called for the interview to examine the
qualifications will be unable to prove required
qualifications as per this notice, the next eligible candidate
in the list as per order of merit shall be called for the
interview.
2. Conditions of employment in the service :
(i) Subject to the conditions set out in the service minute of
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service published
in the Gazette Extra-ordinary of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1928/28 dated 21.08.2015
and the amendments made thereafter to the said service
minute, and subject to the general conditions governing
appointments to the government service, the selected
candidates shall be appointed to Class III of the Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
have to be paid for the Widows’/Widowers’ and
Orphans’ Pension (W&OP).
(iii) Officers appointed to this post are subject to a probation
period of one (1) year.
(iv)
Language Expected Proficiency level
National LanguageOfficers who joined the service in a language
other than an official language should obtain
proficiency in one official language prior to be
made permanent in the post
Other National In accordance with the provisions of Public
Language Administrative Circulars 01/2014 and circulars
thereof, the level of proficiency in respect of
the other language should be obtained

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
21
Link Language Within three (3) years of the date of recruitment
the proficiency in the link language(English
Language) should be obtained. Paragraph No. 7
describes the relevant examination on link
language.
Note: If an officer has obtained a credit pass or
above at G .C.E. (O/L) examination or being
recruited to the service in English medium she/
he will be exempted from the requirement of
link language.
(v) The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission,
Circulars issued from time to time governing the Public
Service and the conditions of the Service Minute of the
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service,
amendments made to the said service minute thereafter,
and amendments that will be made from time to time are
applicable to this post.
(vi) The officers appointed to the posts of class III in the
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service shall be
placed as per existing service requirements to the posts
of general cadre in the central government or provincial
public service.
3. Salary Scale.– This post is entitled to the salary scale SL-1-
2006 Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1050- Rs. 53,555
(monthly) in terms of the Public Administrative Salary Circular
No. 6/2006.
4. Eligibility.– An officer in grade I of the Sri Lanka Principals’
Service at present with the following qualifications shall be eligible
to sit for the examination, to be appointed on the service experience
and merit base.
A. Having completed a minimum of 03 year period of
service in grade I of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service.
(The service period of 03 years shall be counted up to
the closing date of applications)
B. Having confirmed in Sri Lanka Principals’ Service.
C. Having passed or released from efficiency bar
examinations pertaining to Sri Lanka Principals’ Service.
D. Having completed an active and satisfactory period of
service.
Note : Any officer who has been interdicted by the closing
date of applications is not qualified to apply for this
examination. Candidates would be subject to the rules
and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations in respect to the conduct of the
examinations. If these rules are violated, candidates are
bound to undergo any punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
5. Suitability :
5.1.  Physical Suitability :
5.1.1. All applicants must be fit to serve in any part of
the island, and
5.1.2.  should be physically and mentally sound to
perform the duties attached to the post
5.2. (i) Applicants must be citizens of Sri Lanka
(ii) Applicants must possess an exemplary character
and good conduct
(iii) No applicant can sit for the examination for service
experience and merit base more than three times
and for both limited competitive examination and
examination for service experience and merit base
more than five times
(iv) Each applicant must possess all prescribed
qualifications as at this notice to the closing date of
applications to sit for the competitive examination
for service experience and merit base to be recruited
to the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service.
6. Age Limit.– Not more than fifty five years (55) of age on the
closing date of applications
7. Method of Recruitment :
7.1. Written Examination .– This examination will be
conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
7.1.1. Syllabus: The written examination consists of two
papers. 40% of Marks should be obtained to pass
each paper.
1. Subject Number 01: Comparative Education - Time
One hour (Marks 100)
This paper expects the knowledge and comparative
analysis of Education Policies of Sri Lanka, recent
programmes on education development and
international trends in education. This paper
consists of 50 multiple choice type and short
answer type questions, all questions must be
answered.
2.  Subject Number 02: Case Study on Education -
Time One hour (Marks 100)
A number of cases that could occur in the field of
education administration/ management will be
presented and applicants’ response in such events
as well as her / his capability and capacity of conflict
resolution will be tested. All questions must be
answered.
7.2. Method of Awarding Marks for Service Experience :
After deducting the prescribed three year (3) period of
service given as basic qualifications required for the
recruitment, in addition to said compulsory period of
Language Expected Proficiency level

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
22
service, for all active and satisfactory period of service
in the grade I of Sri Lanka Principals' Service, 03 marks
per each year will be awarded subject to a maximum of
60 marks for service experience (marks will be awarded
only for a complete year)
7.3. General Interview :
This is to examine if the applicant has fulfilled necessary
qualifications required for recruitment as per this
notification of recruitment.
(i) Only a number of candidates equal to the number of
vacancies available shall be called as per respective
merit levels of the total marks obtained for service
experience and written examination,for the interview
of examining the qualifications.
(ii) If any vacancy occurs / vacancies occur due to,an
applicant / a number of applicants called for the
interview has /have not fulfilled required
qualifications, the said number of vacancies shall be
filled from the next candidates in the merit list as
perorder of merit.
(iii) If there is more than one candidate with equal marks
at cut off points, the Public Service Commission
shall take a decision with regard to such situations.
(iv) Eligibility of candidates shall be examined by a board
of interview appointed by the Public service
Commission and no marks will be awarded.
8. Releasing Examination results.– According to 1.a and 1.b of
this notice the list of selected applicants prepared according to the
merits as per the total marks obtained for both written examination
and service experience shall be sent to the Secretary, Public Service
Commission. Thereafter, as directed by the Public Service
Commission, the results will be either sent personally to the
applicants or published on the department of examination's web site
www/results.exams.gov.lk.
9. Conditions of Examination :
(i) The examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, Tamil
and English media. A candidate can appear for the
examination in only one language of her/his choice.All
question papers have to be answered in the same
medium. Candidates will not be permitted to change the
medium of the examination given in her/his application.
(ii) The examination fee is Rs.1000/- .The examination fee
can be paid at any post office or divisional secretariat in
the island to the credit of Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of
the Commissioner General of Examinations. A margin
of the original receipt obtained in the candidate's own
name should be firmly pasted to the place specified in
the application form. It would be advisable to retain a
photocopy of this receipt with applicant.
(iii) The examination fees shall not be refunded for any reason.
(iv) This examination will be held in Colombo.The date of
the examination will be notified later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.
On the assumption that only those who fulfill necessary
qualifications as per this Gazette notification have applied
for the examination, the applicants who are below the
specified age limit and submit their duly completed
applications before the closing date of applications with
the receipt of the duly paid examination fees attached
and complete with requested information of medium of
examination, the cadre applied, and the relevant grid of
details with the recommendations of the Principal and
the Head of the Department shall receive an admission
card from the commissioner general of examinations.
Note: Entering to the examination hall will not be
permitted without an admission card. Only an
admission card with the attested signature of the
candidate should be presented to the supervisor of
the examination hall on the first day examination.
The issue of an admission card for the examination
to a candidate should not be taken as an
acknowledgement that the candidate has satisfied
the qualifications to appear for the examination.
(vi) The application should be prepared on either side of A4
paper of the size 22-29 cm. Headings 01 to 03 should be
entered on the first page, and the rest on the second and
third pages. The relevant particulars should be entered
very clearly in candidate's own handwriting. Applications
which do not conform to the specimen application given
at the end of this Gazette notification and incomplete
applications will be rejected without any notice. It would
be advisable to retain a copy of the application. Further,
the candidate should satisfy herself / himself that the
completed application conforms to the specimen
application. All applicants should thoroughly know that
the application do not conform to the specimen will be
rejected.
(vii) Department of Examinations will publish a paper
notification as soon as the admission cards are issued.
If the admission card is not received by any of the
applicant at least five (05) days prior to the date of
examination, an inquiry should be made from the
organization and foreign examinations branch of the
Department of Examinations in the manner stated in the
paper notice. In the said inquiry, the name of the
examination applied, full name of the applicant, national
identity card number, and the address should be correctly
mentioned. In case of the applicant lives outside
Colombo, it is advisable to send the request by fax with
the said details and a fax number of the applicant. In
such cases, it is advisable to keep a copy of the
application, a copy of the receipt of examination fees,

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
23
the receipt of the registration of post at hand to provide
the details requested by the Department of
Examinations.
(viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations has the
power, with the approval of the Public Service
Commission, to either postpone or cancel the
examination.
(ix) Candidates would be subject to the rules and regulations
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations
in respect to the conduct of the examinations. If these
rules are violated, candidates are bound to undergo any
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
(x) The identification of the candidate:  All candidates should
prove their identity to the satisfaction of the head of the
examination hall. Only one of the following documents
will be accepted for this purpose.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department for the Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport
NB: - ( a) No document or a copy thereof should be
annexed to the application.
(b) The applications of candidates who fail to
produce documents when requested to do so
will not be considered.
(xi) If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess the
required qualifications, the candidature can be annulled
at any stage before, during or after the examination. If it
comes to light that any fact presented is incorrect after
selection to the post or if any significant fact has been
willfully suppressed, the person in question may be
dismissed from the service.
(xii) Officers in the Public Service / Provincial Public Service
should forward their applications through the heads of
their departments / institutions.
(xiii) The final decision on any matter that does not include in
this notice rests with the Public Service Commission.
10. In case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases of this
notice, which is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages,
the Sinhala notice will be considered as the correct one.
W. M. B
ANDUSENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
18th December, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
(For Office Use Only)
fiajd m<mqreoao yd l=i,;d moku u; Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k
fiajfha III fY%a‚hg n|jd .ekSfï ;r. úNd.h - 2015$2016
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE 111 OF THE SRI
LANKA EDUCATION ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE ON THE BASIS OF SERVICE
EXPERIENCE AND MERIT- 2015 / 2016
Medium of the Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (Indicate in the relevant cage)
01. 1.1 Name in Full (In Block Letters) :––––––––––––.
(Ex. : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN
KUMARA GUNAW ARDENA)
1.2 Name with last name at the beginning and initials of other
names at the end (In Block Letters)  :––––––––––––.
(Ex : GUNAWARDENA, H.M.S.K.)
1.3 Name in Full (In Sinhala/ Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. 2.1 Present place of work and official address (In Block Letters)
:––––––––––––.
2.2 Personal Address (In Block Letters) :––––––––––––.
2.3 Personal Contact No (If any) :––––––––––––.
2.4 Address to which the admissions should be sent (In Block
Letters) :––––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate in the relevant cage.)
3.2 Ethnic :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3
Muslim - 4
Other - 5
(Indicate in the relevant cage.)
3.3 National Identity Card No:
04. 4.1 Date of Birth
Year : Month : Date :
4.2 Age as at 01.02.2016
Years : Months : Days :
4.3 Marital Status
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Indicate in the relevant cage.)

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
24
05. Service Particulars -
5.1 Post and date of appointment of the first appointment :
––––––––––––.
5.2 Present Provincial office of Education/Zonal office of
Education :––––––––––––.
5.3 Date of Appointment to class I of Principals' Service
:––––––––––––.
06. Education Qualification :––––––––––––.
07. Professional Qualification :––––––––––––.
08. Details on the training courses participated :––––––––––––.
09. Details of any type of penalties (other than advises) imposed
for an offence committed during the immediate five years prior
to the closing date of the applications  :––––––––––––.
10. 10.1 Whether all the salary increments have been earned during
the immediate five years prior to the closing date of the
application? :––––––––––––.
10.2 If not earned, reasons for such :––––––––––––.
11. Present situation of any disciplinary inquiry if being conducted
against you :––––––––––––.
12. Details of no pay or half pay leave taken during the immediate
posts five years :––––––––––––.
13. Examination Fees :
Affix the invoice of Rs. 1,000/- paid as examination fees.
(Keep a photocopy of the invoice)
I do hereby state that I am eligible to be considered for the
promotion on the basis of service experience and merit to Sri Lanka
Education Administrative Service as per the particulars furnished
above and certify  that the particulars furnished by me herewith are
true and accurate. In addition, I agree to adhere to the laws and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
with regard to conducting the examination.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
This is to certify the particulars of service stated from 05 to 12
above are accurate as per the personal file, and do certify that the
invoice obtained by paying the examination fee of Rs. 1000/- has
been affixed herewith.
–––––––––––––––,
Provincial Secretary of Education/
Provincial Director of Education/
Zonal Director of Education.
(official Stamp to be placed)
Date :––––––––––––.
01–266/3
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  THE SRI  LANKA
EDUCATION  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE
By Order of the Public Service Commission 2015/2016
APPLICATIONS are called, on the direction of the Public Service
Commission, from the following suitable officers for the open
competitive examination to fill existing 219 vacancies in the general
cadre and special cadre in Information Technology, Bio Systems
Technology and Engineering Technology in Class III of the Sri Lanka
Education Administrative Service. All applicants must possess the
qualifications as per this Gazette notice as at the closing date of
applications.Applications prepared according to the format given at
the end of this notice should be forwarded on or before the date given
below to the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Post
Box 1503, Colombo, under registered cover. The top left hand corner
of the envelope should clearly carry the words "Open Competitive
Examination for Recruitment to Class III of the Sri Lanka Education
Administrative Service - 2015/2016". Further, the name of the
examination should be written in Sinhala applications in addition to
Sinhala in English, and in Tamil applications in addition to Tamil in
English.
The closing date ofapplications: - 01.02.2016.
Note.-No complaints shall be considered to the effect that an
application or documents connected there with were lost
or delayed in the post. Any loss that may result by delaying
the application to the last date will have to be borne by the
applicant.
1. Method of Recruitment :
(a) Qualified applicants from those who sat for all four papers
shall be called for the viva voce examination for
recruitment. From the applicants who score minimum
marks of 40% to each paper, total number of applicants
calling for the interview shall be equal to the number of
vacancies and 25% thereof. Marks of the written
examination shall not be given to the viva voce Panel. The
criteria of marks for the interview have been given in the
paragraph No 9.2 of this notification. Existing number of
vacancies in class III shall be filled according to the merits
of total marks obtained for the written examination and
the interview. The Public Service Commission has the
right to fill all or a certain number of vacancies.
Selected applicants from the open competitive examination
shall be placed in Southern, Sabaragamuwa, Central,
Wayamba, North Central, Uva, Eastern and Northern
provinces to fill in following vacancies.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
25
Subject No of V acancies
General Carder 197
Information Technology 11
Engineering Technology 06
Bio Systems Technology 05
2. Conditions of employment in the service :
(i) Subject to the conditions set out in the service minute of
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service published in
the Gazette Extra-ordinary of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No 1928/28 dated 21.08.2015 and
the amendments made thereafter to the said service minute,
and subject to the general conditions governing
appointments to the government service, the selected
candidates shall be appointed to Class III of the service.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions
have to be paid for the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension (W&OP).
(iii) Officers appointed to this post are subject to a probation
period of three (03) years.
(iv)
Language Expected Proficiency level
National Language Officers who joined the service in a language
other than an official language should obtain
proficiency in one official language prior to
be made permanent in the post
Other National In accordance with the provisions of Public
Language Administrative Circulars 01/2014 and circulars
thereof, the level of proficiency in respect of
the other language should be obtained
Link Language Within three (3) years of the date of
recruitment the proficiency in the link language
(English Language) should be obtained.
Annexure 7 of the service minute of Sri Lanka
Education Administrative Service describes
the relevant examination on link language.
Note.– If an officer has obtained a credit pass
or above at G .C.E. (O/L) examination or being
recruited to the administrative service in
English medium she/he will be exempted from
the requirement of link language.
(v) The procedural rules of the Public Service Commission,
Circulars issued from time to time governing the Public
Service and the conditions of the Service Minute of the Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service, amendments made
to the said service minute thereafter, and amendments that
will be made from time to time are applicable to this post.
(vi) The officers appointed to the posts of class III shall be
placed as per existing service requirements to the posts in
the central government or provincial public service.
3. Salary Scale.– This post is entitled to the salary scale SL-1-
2006 Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1050-53,555/- (monthly)
in terms of the Public Administrative Salary Circular No 6/2006
4. Educational Qualifications :
(a) General Cadre
A graduate with a degree from a university recognized by
the University Grants Commission,
(b) Special Cadre (Information Technology and Bio Systems
Technology).
(i) A degree from a university recognized by the
University Grant Commission for information
technology
(ii) Under technological stream, for bio systems
technology, a degree in agriculture from a university
recognized by the University Grant Commission.
(c) Special Cadre (Engineering Technology)
The degree in Civil, Mechanical, Electrical or Electronics
Engineering from a university recognized by the university
grant Commission OR the four year Higher National
Diploma in Engineering offered by the Sri Lanka Institute
of AdvancedTechnological Education (HNDE) OR the four
year diploma in Engineering Science (NDES) awarded by
the Institute of Engineering Technology, Katunayake.
5. Age Limit.– Not less than twenty two years (22) of age and not
more than thirty years (30) of age on the closing date of application.
6. Physical suitability.– All applicants must be physically and
mentally fit to serve and perform the duties attached to the post in
any part of the island.
7. Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicants must be citizens of Sri Lanka
(ii) Applicants must possess an exemplary character and good
conduct
(iii) An applicant can sit for the open competitive examination
only two (2) times maximum.
(iv) Each applicant must possess all prescribed qualifications
as at this noticeto the closing date applications as given in
this Gazette notification to be recruited to the Sri Lanka
Education Administrative Service.
8. Method of Application :
i. In addition to the General Cadre, the candidates can also
apply for the vacancies in the fields of the Special Cadre
referred to in Paragraph iii (b) below. If applying under the
Special Cadre, it is compulsory to fulfill the qualifications

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
26
including the political, social, and cultural environment
and the education system in Sri Lanka and the current
matters of national and international importance as
well as scientific and technological development. This
paper consists of 50 multiple-choice and short answer
type questions. (All questions must be answered)
4. Subject Number 04: Essay and Precis - Time One hour
an thirty minutes (Marks 100)
Current topics will be given for constructing the essay.
The question paper will be designed to measure the ability
of candidate to incorporate appropriate contents, the way
he organizes them, the style of its presentation and the
language she / he uses and her/ his general knowledge and
intelligence as well as power of thinking and expressing
ideas. Special attention is given to clear and methodical
presentation of essay.
It is expected to summarizing one or more passages given
in making the precis.
9.2 Viva Voce Test :
(i) A panel appointed by the Public Service Commission
will conduct the viva voce test to examine the
knowledge and ability on teaching learning process,
reasoning and problem solving and communication
skills and personality of the applicants,who obtain
necessary marks from written examination, using
following criterion. Here, the maximum marks awarded
will be twenty five (25).
Subject Area Maximum Marks
Knowledge on teaching learning process 04
Reasoning and Problem Solving 08
Communication Skills 08
Personality 05
Total 25
(ii) If the number of qualified applicants is not equal to the
number given in paragraph 01above, only qualified
applicants will be called for the viva voce test.
(iii) A general interview to ascertain applicant's
qualifications will be held before the viva voce test and
no marks will be awarded there. The applicants, who
prove at the general interview that they have obtained
all qualifications as per this Gazette notification shall
only be called for the viva voce test. If it is revealed
that some applicants, who appear for the general
interview, do not satisfy the necessary qualifications
to be called for the viva voce test, no other applicants
shall be called again in their place for the general
interview.
9.3 Releasing Examination results :
According to 01) a. of this notification the list of selected
applicants prepared according to merits from both written
examination and viva voce test will be sent to the Secretary,
given in 4 (b) and (C) above and moreover, 1/3 of the total
number of credits offered for the degree should be relevant
to the subject applied for.
ii. In the event of an applicant is selected for the General
Cadre as well as for several subjects in the Special Cadre,
the Public Service Commission has the right to decide the
subject for which the recruitment is made.
iii. The subjects and the codes assigned to General and Special
Cadres are given below. The subjects applied for and the
codes assigned should be mentioned in the relevant cage in
the application.
Code Number
(a) General Cadre 11
(b) Special Cadre
Subject Area
Information Technology 27
Engineering Technology 43
Bio Systems Technology 44
9. Method of Recruitment :
9.1 Written Examination :
9.1.1 This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations
9.1.2 Syllabus:
The written examination comprises of (04) four
papers. A 40% of minimum marks should be obtained
to pass each paper.
1. Subject No 01. Comprehension - Marks 100 - time
one hour
The candidates will be given a set of short passages.
In case of some of the passages, the candidate will be
presented with a set of alternative statements, one of
which fits the content of the passage best. The
candidate would be required to pick the most
appropriate statement. These questions will be set to
test the manner in which the candidate is able to grasp
the meaning of all such passages given. This question
paper contains compulsory questions. (All questions
must be answered)
2. Subject Number 02 : Intelligence Test - Time One
hour, Marks (100)
The test on intelligence ascertains the applicant's
power of logical reasoning. This paper consists of 50
multiple-choice and short answer type questions. (All
questions must be answered)
3. Subject Number 03: General Knowledge - Time One
hour (Marks 100)
The question paper tests the candidate's awareness
of the environment in which she/he lives and works

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
27
Public Service Commission. Thereafter, as directed by the
Public Service Commission, the results will be either sent
personally to the applicants or published on
www.results.exams.gov.lk; the official website of the
Department of Examinations for results release.
10. Examination Conditions :
(i) The examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, Tamil
and English media. A candidate can appear for the
examination in only one language of her/his choice.All
question papers have to be answered in the same medium.
Candidates will not be permitted to change the medium of
examination in her/his application later.
(ii) The examination fee,which is Rs.1000/- could be paid at
any post office or divisional secretariat in the island to the
credit of Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner
General of Examinations. A margin of the original receipt
obtained in the candidate's own name should be firmly
pasted to the place specified in the application form. It
would be advisable to retain a photocopy of this receipt.
(iii) The examination fees shall not be refunded for any reason.
(iv) This examination will be held in Colombo. The date of the
examination will be notified later.
(v) Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.
On the assumption that only those who fulfill necessary
qualifications as per this Gazette notification have applied
for the examination, the applicants, who are below the
specified age limit and submit their duly completed
applications on or before the closing date of applications,
with the receipt of duly paid examination fees attached,
and included requested information such as medium of
examination, the cadre applied, and completed the relevant
grid of information with applicant's signature attested and
if applicable with the recommendations of them Head of
the Department, shall receive an admission card from the
commissioner general of examinations.
Note: Entering to the examination hall will not be
permitted without an admission card. Only an
admission card with the attested signature of the
candidate should be presented to the supervisor of
the examination hall on the first day examination.
Issuing an admission card to a candidate for the
examination should not be taken as an
acknowledgement that the candidate has satisfied
the qualifications required to sit for the examination.
(vi) The application should be prepared on either sideof A4
paper of the size 22-29 cm. Headings 01 to 04 should be
entered on the first page, 05 to 06 on the second page and
the rest on page three and four. The relevant particulars
should be entered very clearly in candidate's own
handwriting. Applications, which do not conform to the
specimen application given at the end of this Gazette
notification and incomplete applications will be rejected
without any notice. It would be advisable to retain a copy
of the application. Further, the candidate should satisfy
herself / himself that the completed application conforms
to the specimen application before submitting. All
applicants should thoroughly learn that the applications
do not conform to the given specimen will be rejected.
(vii) Department of Examinations will publish a paper
notification as soon as the admission cards are issued.  If
the admission card is not received by any of the applicants
at least five (05) days prior to the date of examination, an
inquiry should be made from the organizations and foreign
examinations branch of the Department of Examinations
in the manner stated in the paper notice. In the said inquiry,
the name of the examination applied, full name of the
applicant, national identity card number, and the address
should be correctly mentioned. In case of the applicant
lives outside Colombo, it is advisable to send the request
by fax with the said details and a fax number of the
applicant. In such cases, it is important to keep a copy of
the application, a copy of the receipt of examination fees
and the receipt of the registered post at hand to provide
the details requested by the Department of Examinations.
(viii) The Commissioner General of Examinations has the power,
with the approval of the Public Service Commission, to
either postpone or cancel the examination.
(ix) Candidates would be subject to the rules and regulations
enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations in
respect to the conduct of the examinations. If these rules
are violated, candidates are bound to undergo any
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
(x) The identification of the candidate:  All candidates should
prove their identity to the satisfaction of the head of the
examination hall. Only one of the following documents
will be accepted for this purpose.
i. The National Identity Card issued by the Department
for the Registration of Persons.
ii. A valid Passport
NB: - (a) No document or a copy thereof should be annexed to
the application.
(b) The applications of candidates who fail to produce
documents when requested to do so will not be
considered.
(xi) If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess any of
the required qualifications, the candidature can be annulled
at any stage before, during or after the examination. If it
comes to light that any fact presented is incorrect after
selection to the post or if any significant fact has been
willfully suppressed, the person in question may be
dismissed from the service.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
28
Applicants should get their signature attested in both
application and admission card for the examination. An
applicants who is already in the public service should get
her /his signature attested by her /his head of the department
or a delegated officer by the said department head, and
other applicants from a head of a government school, a
Grama Niladhari of the division, justice of peace, a
commissioner for oath, a lawyer, notary public, a
commissioned officer in the three armed forces,or an
permeant executive officer from government or provincial
public service who draws an annual salary more than
Rs. 240,360.
(xii) The final decision on any matter that does not include in
this notice rests with the Public Service Commission.
11. In case of any discrepancy arises among the phrases of this
notice, which is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages,
the Sinhala notice will be considered as the correct one.
W. M. B
ANDUSENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
18th December, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
                       (For office use only)
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha III fY%a‚hg n|jd .ekSfï
újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2015$2016
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF
THE SRI LANKA EDUCATION ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE - 2015 / 2016
Medium of the Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (Indicate in the relevant cage)
"Cadre" from which the candidate apply for the examination
Only the general cadre - 1
Only the special cadre - 2
For both general and special cadre - 3
(Indicate in the relevant cage)
If the cadre applied for is in the special cadre, the serial number of
the subject area should be indicated in the following table. (as per the
Gazette notification)
Name of the cadre Name of the subject Serial No.
field
General ////////////////////////////////////
Special
Special
01. 1.1 Name in Full (In block letters) :––––––––––––.
(Ex : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN
KUMARA GUNAWARDENA)
1.2 Name with last name at the beginning and initials of other
names at the end  (In block letters) :––––––––––––.
(Ex : GUNAWARDENA, H.M.S.K.)
1.3 Name in Full (In Sinhala/Tamil)   :––––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
2.2 Personal Address  (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admissions should be sent (In block
letters) :––––––––––––.
2.4 Personal Contact No. (if any) :––––––––––––.
3.0 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
 (Indicate in the relevant cage)
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 5.1 Ethnicity :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3
Muslim - 4 (Indicate in the relevant cage)
Others - 5
5.2 Marital Status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2        (Indicate in the relevant cage)
5.3 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
5.4 Age as at 01.02.2016 :
Years : Months : Days :
6.0 Medium of language in which the examination written to be
eligible for this post :–––––––––––.
7.0 Education Qualifications :
7.1 Date qualified for the degree or other qualifications :
–––––––––––.
7.2 University / Institution :–––––––––––.
7.3 Registered No. of the University / Institution :–––––––.
7.4 External / Internal :–––––––––––.
7.5 Degree / Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
7.6 Subjects :–––––––––––.
7.7 Class :–––––––––––.
7.8 Upper / Lower :–––––––––––.
7.9 Examination No. :–––––––––––.
7.10 Medium of Language sat for the examination :–––––––.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
29
8.0 Indicate whether appeared the Open competitive Examinations
for the recruitment to class III of Sri Lanka Education
Administrative Service conducted in years 2010, 2013 (Tick off
() where necessary) :
Year Yes No
2010
2013
9.0 Examination Fees :
Paste the invoice hereby paying examination fees
(keep a photocopy of the invoice)
10. I do herewith state that the information furnished by me herewith
are true to my knowledge and belief, and have affixed the invoice
No. ……………. of ……………. paying the examination fees.
In addition, I would herewith agree to act according to the
examination regulations and adhere to the laws and regulations
enforced by the Commissioner General of Examinations and if
revealed disqualified according to the conditions of this
examination, I agree to any decision taken to cancel my
candidature before or at the time of the examination or any other.
Furthermore, I do know that I will be dismissed from service
even if I was revealed to have been disqualified after selected for
this post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Certification of the Signature :
This is to certify Rev./ Mr./ Mrs./ Miss/ ………………… ………
signed herewith and resided at …………………….. is personally
known to me, and he/ she placed her signature before me, after
pasting the invoice herewith.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
(Place the Official Stamp)
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Institution :
(Only for candidates engaged in government / provincial government
/ government corporations service) :
I, do herewith recommend and submit the application of Mr./
Mrs./ Miss. ………….........................…… serving as a
………………………………….. at the Ministry / Department /
Institution of ………………………… Necessary actions to release
from the service of this institution can be taken if selected for this
post.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Institution.
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
01–266/2
––––––––––––––––––
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  III  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
EDUCATION  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE – 2015
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
officers in class III in the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service
will be held in 2016 April in Colombo.
02. The Syllabus and other provisions relating to this
Examination have been published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1225/32
dated 01.03.2002. The syllabus and other provisions are indicated
below for convenience.
Examination Procedure :
(a) The first Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the
following subjects.
Subject Number 01 General Administration –
Constitution of Sri Lanka.
Provisions of the Establishments
Code and other regulations of
the government.
Subject Number 02 Finance
Subject Number 03 Education, Educational Law,
Administration and Supervision
(b) An Officer may take up the subjects of the 1st Efficiency
Bar Examination on one and the same occasion or on separate
occasions.
(c) Each paper will be of 3 hour duration.
03. Syllabus of Examination :
(01) General Administration
(a) The Ceylon Government Order in Council, 1946 and
1947 (Chapter 973)

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
30
The Citizenship Act, No. 18 of 1948 (Chapter 349)
The Constitution Adopted and Enacted on 22nd May
1972
Registration of persons eligible to vote – Act, No. 44
of 1980
Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 19 of 1981
Referendum Act, No. 07 of 1981
Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
(b) Office and Field Organization and Methods :
The Establishments Code and other Government
Regulations
Chapters I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, IX, X, XI, XVI,
XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII,
XXXIII, XLVII, XLVIII of the Establishments
Code.
(02)  Finance :
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government – Part
I (Except Chapter I)
(b) The Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure of the
current year, e.g. their arrangements; the Head of
Revenue, Finance and Appropriation Acts.
(c) Ordinances and other Legislation relating to Specific
Accounts dealt with in Education Offices.
(03) Education, Education Law, Administration and
Supervision
(a) Education Law – Candidates are excepted to be
familiar with following Ordinances and Acts of
Parliament.
 Education Ordinance No. 31 of 1939
 Amendment Ordinance No. 26 of 1947
 Amendment Act, No. 05 of 1951
 Amendment Act, No. 43 of 1953
 Code of Regulations for Government Schools
 Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment ) Act, No. 05 of 1960
 Assisted Schools and Training Colleges
(Supplementary Provisions) Act, No. 08 of
1961
 Education  (Change of Designations) Act, No.
35 of 1973
 Pirivena Act, No. 64 of 1979
 The Assisted Schools and Training Colleges
(Special Provisions Amendment) Act, No. 65
of 1981
 National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of
1985
(b) Education Administration -
1. Policies of the Ministry of Education
(i) Ministry of Education
(ii) Organization and functions of the
Ministry of Education and the
Departmental Institutions under the
Ministry including District Departments.
(iii) Educational Planning Development at
National and Regional levels; Aims and
Objectives, methods (including school
mapping), implementation etc.
2. School Management, School community
relationship
3. Educational Management Information Systems
4. Special Education Programmes.
(c) Educational supervision –
 Scheme for school supervision and criteria used
in evaluation of teacher performance.
 Continuous evaluation programmes in School
 Self evaluation programs in Schools
 School supervision by the District Departments
and the Ministry of Education
 Validation of Internal Evaluation by  External
Teams;
(Candidates are advised to be thorough with the
Circulars, Manuals and other Publications issued
by the Ministry of Education)
Reference :-
 Asian Institutes of Educational Planning and
Administration (1970)
 Modern Management Techniques in Educational
Administration
 A Report of a Seminar – New Delhi
 Barry and Tye. (1975) Running a School – Temple
Smith London
 Bush T. Glatter, R Good, C. Riches, (eds. 1980)
Schools
 Approaches to School Management, Harper and Row.
 Dr. Khan Mohideen Sheriff (1983)
 School Administration, New Delhi
 Ministry of Education –Education in Ceylon (1969)
 A Centenary V olume Part II, Part III Ministry of
Education and Cultural Affairs, Ceylon.
 Open University (1981) Policy Making, Organization
and Leadership in Schools (Block 4 of Course E 323)
Open University Press, London, Shipman, Murten
(1983) in School Evaluation, Heineman Education
Books, London, Report on the Management Reforms
in the Ministry of Education 1984.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
31
(04) Total marks allocated for each paper is 100. A candidate
should obtain 40% or above of total marks to pass
each paper.
(05)  Language  medium of the Examination :
 (i) Examination would be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English language
(ii) Candidates can answer the question papers either
in the Official Language or in the National
Language.
(iii) Candidates can answer in the Language medium
of the Competitive Examination he passed to enter
the Public Service or if there was no competitive
Examination, Language medium of qualifying
examination to enter the Public Service.
(06) If it is detected that a candidate has answered the
question papers in a language medium for which he is
not entitled his/her candidature will be cancelled. He
will not be allowed to change the language medium
applied for, at a later stage.
(07) Application should be prepared and submitted by using
a A4 size paper in conformity with the specimen form
indicated below. (Item 01 to 06 should appear in the
first page and the remaining items should appear in the
second page) In the Sinhala application the name of the
Examination should be indicated in English in addition
to Sinhala and in the Tamil application the name of the
Examination should be indicated in English in addition
to Tamil. Relevant Information in the Application
should be clearly written in candidate’s own
handwriting. Applications which are not in conformity
with the specimen form and those which are incomplete
will be rejected without notification. It is advisable to
keep a photo copy of the Application with the
candidate. Candidates should be vigilant as to whether
the duly completed Application is in conformity with
the specimen form and it should be noted that the
application will be rejected if it is not so.
(08) The Examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examination and the
candidates are bound by the rules prescribe by him for
conducting Examinations. These rules are indicated at
the end of this notification.
(09) Applications should be forwarded under registered post
through Heads of Departments addressed to the
Commissioner General of the Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri
Lanka Examinations Department, P.O. Box – 1503,
Colombo., to be received on or before 01.02.2016 Name
of the Examinations should be written on the top left
hand corner of the envelope. Any application received
after this date will be rejected.
(10) Admissions will be issued by the Commissioner General
of Examinations for the applicants who have submitted
perfected applications accurately along with the receipt
obtained subsequent to paying the relevant prescribed
examination fees if it is required to pay the examination
fee on or before the closing date of receiving
applications as mentioned in the notification and with
the language medium of sitting the examination,
signature of the candidate and the certificate issued by
the Head of the Department.
Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the
candidates a news paper notification to that effect will
be published by the Department of Examination. If the
admission cards are not received even after 02 or 03
days of the news paper notice it should be notified to
the Department of Examinations according to
instructions in the news paper notice. A certified photo
copy of the application retained with the candidate,
the registration receipt, and the fax number for sending
the admission card if the candidate is resident out side
Colombo should be sent to the Department of
Examinations. A copy of the letter of request sent to
the Department of Examinations should be retained
with the candidate. (Fax No. : 011-2784232)
(i) Name of Examination :-
(ii) Full name of candidate :-
(iii) Address of the candidates in full :-
(iv) Date of posting the application, registered letter
number and post office :-
(11) Complains from candidates who fail to fulfill the
requirements indicated in para 9 above will not be
considered.
(12) (i) Every candidate should get his / her signature
attested and the admission card with attested
signature should be submitted to the supervisor on
the first day of examination.
(ii) At the examination hall it is the responsibility of
the candidates to produce evidence in proof of their
identity and for this purpose only the Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons
or a valid Passport will be accepted.
(13) Fees for examinations will be charged as follows. The
relevant examination fee should be paid at any Post
Office Sub Post Office to be credited to revenue head
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The receipt obtained for the payment
from the District / Divisional Secretariat should be
pasted in the relevant box of the application form. (It
is advisable to retain a copy of the receipt with you).
(a) First sitting (fees won't be levied for the whole
examination or part of it)
(b) Thereafter, for each sitting
For the whole examination Rs. 1,000.00
For one subject Rs. 500.00
(14)  (i) The issue of an admission card should not be
considered an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled
the qualifications to appear for the examination.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
32
 (ii) All candidates are subject to the rules and
regulations given by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. Any candidate who breaches such
rules and regulations will be subject to the
punishments given by the Commissioner General
of Examinations.
(15) In a case of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
(16) The right of taking a decision regarding any matter,
which has not been covered by this notification is
reserved by the Secretary to the Ministry of Education.
W. M. B
ANDUSENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
"Isurupaya",
Battaramulla,
11th December, 2015.
 (For official use only)
 Application Form
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  III  OF THE  SRI LANKA
EDUCATION  SERVICE – 2015
YS% ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha III jeks mka;sfha ks,OdÍka
i|yd jk ld¾hlaIu;d lvbï úNd.h-2015
(To be forwarded to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
by registered post through the Head of the Department)
Language medium for the examination :
Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(Relevant number to be written within cage)
(Name of examination should be written on the top left corner in
the envelope)
01. (i) Name in full (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
Eg. : HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN
KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA
(ii) Name indicating last name first and the initials of the other
names (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA H. M. S. K.
(iii) Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Address to which the admission of the examination should
be sent (In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Of ficial Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Private Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
(iv) T elephone No. :–––––––––––.
03. Subjects offered with subject numbers as indicated in para
02(a) in the notification to be written clearly.
Subject Number Subject …………………
Subject Number Subject …………………
Subject Number Subject …………………
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
05. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
06. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Relevant number to be written within the cage)
07. (i) Designation :–––––––––––.
(ii) D epartment / Zonal Education Office / Divisional
Education Office /School :–––––––––––.
08. State whether you have appeared for this examination
previously, in whole or in part and if so state year, subjects
and medium in which answers were written
Y ear Subject Medium
...................... ...................... .......................
...................... ...................... .......................
...................... ...................... .......................
09. Details of the receipt:
(i) Name of the Secretariat Office where you paid the
examination fee :–––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt number and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) The amount paid :–––––––––––.
Paste the receipt received after payment here
(A photocopy to be retained by the candidate) Only if relevant
10. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true
and correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the
medium indicated in the application. I also agree to abide by all
the rules and regulations of the examination. I also declare that
I will be subject to the rules and regulations to be imposed
relating to this examination by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Signature  of  candidate.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
33
Commissioner General of Examination
Submitted
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear as above is
eligible to sit this examination and that he/she is entitled to sit in the
language medium indicated by him/her in the application.
I mention further that the receipt for payment is affixed
above (*)
–––––––––––––––,
   Signature and Designation of the
Head of Department and official frank.
Date :––––––––––––.
(*) To be deleted when payment of fees is not requested.
01–88
SRI  LANKA  INSTITUTE  OF  ADV ANCED
TECHNOLOGICAL   EDUCATION
GAZETTE Notification which was published in 11.12.2015 No.
1945 regarding Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological
Education (SLIATE) 2016 student admission will be amended as
follows.
Higher National Diploma in Accountancy :
According to the Public Administration Circular No. 46/90, the
Higher National Diploma in Accountancy has been recognized to
accept as an alternative qualification to a General Degree in
Commerce (Ordinary pass), awarded by a recognized University
for reruitment purposes.
Dr. W. H
ILARY E. SILVA,
Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced  Technological
Education.
01–79

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
34
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'01'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.01.2016
35
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2016
JANUARY 01.01.2016 Friday — 18.12.2015 Friday 12 noon
08.01.2016 Friday –– 23.12.2015 Wednesday 12 noon
14.01.2016 Thursday –– 01.01.2016 Friday 12 noon
22.01.2016 Friday –– 08.01.2016 Friday 12 noon
29.01.2016 Friday –– 14.01.2016 Thursday 12 noon
FEBRUARY 05.02.2016 Friday — 22.01.2016 Friday 12 noon
12.02.2016 Friday –– 29.01.2016 Friday 12 noon
19.02.2016 Friday –– 05.02.2016 Friday 12 noon
26.02.2016 Friday –– 12.02.2016 Friday 12 noon
MARCH 04.03.2016 Friday — 19.02.2016 Friday 12 noon
11.03.2016 Friday –– 26.02.2016 Friday 12 noon
18.03.2016 Friday –– 04.03.2016 Friday 12 noon
24.03.2016 Thursday –– 11.03.2016 Friday 12 noon
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.