

<!-- page 1 -->

291
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.07'22
Part II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -22.07.2021
wxl 2"238- 2021 cQ,s ui 22 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2021'07'22
No 2,238 – THURSDAY,  22   JULY  2021
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LEGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 1200 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication All 
Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect 
of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc should be prepared by giving adequate time both from 
the date of despatch of notices to Govt Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to 
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be 
entertained after three months from the date of publication
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication ie Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th August, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 1200 noon on 30th July 2021
Electronic Transactions Act, No 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer 
Department of Govt Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
291- B - 822251 - 353 (07/2021)
 Page Page
 Laws  —
Supreme Court Notices  —
Court of Appeal Notices  —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices  —
Notices in Insolvency Cases  —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals  —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales  —
Notices in Testamentary Actions  —
Council of Legal Education Notices  —
List of Notaries  292
Miscellaneous Notices  292
NB— Parts II and  IV (B) of the Gazette No. 2237 of 16.07.2021 were not Published
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

292
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.07'22
Part II – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -22.07.2021
NOTICE 
Notaries Ordinance (Chapter 107)
THIS is to inform that, the resignation of, Mr. Thennakoon 
Mudiyansele Karunarathna Banda, Notary Public with effect 
from 01.08.2020, who carried on duty in Sinhala language 
within Kurunegala High Court Zone, has been approved by 
the honorable State Minister of National Security and Disaster 
Management. 
  General Kamal Gunaratne (Retd.),
 Secretary, 
 State Ministry of National Security and 
 Disaster Management. 
At Colombo, 
On the day of 24th April, 2021.
07 -581
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE GREEN 
BUILDING COUNCIL OF SRI LANKA 
I, Ranjith Bandara do hereby give notice under standing 
Order No. 48(1) of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce 
in parliament a Bill entitled "An Act, to Incorporate the Green 
Building Council of Sri Lanka".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said organisation 
which has the following general objects :
1. To promote and develop the principles, techniques, 
guidelines, rating systems and practices for making 
the build environment green and sustainable ; and 
awarding certificates to the relevant parties by 
certifying the level of environment performance of 
buildings, building materials, cities or infrastructures 
developments etc. 
2. To promote and inculcate Green Building Practices, 
among all stakeholders in the building industry, namely 
NOTICE 
Notaries Ordinance (Chapter 107)
THIS is to inform that, the resignation of, Mr.Sabanayagam 
Jeganayagam, Notary Public with effect from 30.09.2020, 
who carried on duty in English language within Colombo 
High Court Zone, has been approved by the honorable State 
Minister of National Security and Disaster Management. 
  General Kamal Gunaratne (Retd.),
 Secretary, 
 State Ministry of National Security and 
 Disaster Management. 
At Colombo, 
On the day of 24th April, 2021.
07 -584
List of Notaries 
Miscellaneous Notices
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.
building owners, users, developers, builders, investors, 
building industry professionals and government and 
non-governmental agencies responsible for building 
construction, the practice of creating structures and 
using processes that a environmentally responsible 
and resource-efficient throughout a building's life-
cycle; from sitting to: design, construction, operation, 
maintenance, renovation and deconstruction. This 
practice will expand and complement the classical 
building design concerns of economy, utility, 
durability and comfort.
3.  To conduct courses and examinations qualifying for 
awarding associate or accredited professional status 
of the Green Building Council of Sri Lanka, to test the 
competence of persons engaged in green construction 
and to grant certificates of competence. 
  Ranjith Bandara,
 Member of Parliament.
07 -667