

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price :  Rs. 12.00  Postage  :  Rs. 10.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist  Republic  of  Sri Lanka of  March 24, 2016.
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 23rd  March,  2016]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
NATIONAL MINIMUM WAGE OF
WORKERS ACT, No. 3 OF 2016

<!-- page 2 -->

National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
1
2—PL 009745—2,950  (02/2016)
Short  title and
the date of
operation.
Competent
Authority.
[Certified on 23rd March, 2016]
L.D.—O. 51/2015.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT OF  NATIONAL MINIMUM WAGE
BY EMPLOYERS TO WORKERS AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the National Minimum
Wage of Workers Act, No. 3 of 2016.
(2) The provisions of this Act shall be deemed, for all
purposes to have come into operation on January 1, 2016.
2. (1) The Commissioner-General shall be the competent
authority for the purposes of this Act.
(2) The competent authority may delegate to any officer
of the Department of Labour any power, function or duty
conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such authority by
this Act.
3. (1) The national minimum monthly wage for all
workers in any industry or service shall be ten thousand
rupees and the national minimum daily wage of a worker
shall be four hundred rupees.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written
law, no employer in any industry or service shall pay to any
worker employed by him a wage which is less than the
national minimum monthly or daily wage specified in
subsection (1), as the case may be.
National
minimum wage.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
4. Every worker who has been employed by any
employer shall, subject to the provisions of section 3, for so
long as he continues to be a worker of such employer,
continue to be so employed on such terms and conditions
relating to wages or salary, allowances or other payments in
money by whatsoever name or designation as are not less
favourable than those which such worker had enjoyed on
the day immediately prior to the date of the coming into
operation of this Act.
5. (1) The employer of a worker in any industry or
service shall from and after the date of coming into operation
of this Act, maintain and keep in the premises in which that
industry or service is carried on, a register setting out-
(a) the name of each worker employed by him;
(b) the class of work performed by each worker
employed by him; and
(c) the amount paid to each such worker as wages.
(2) Every register maintained under subsection (1), shall
be preserved for a period of six years by the employer.
6. The competent authority shall have power-
(a) to enter into and inspect at all reasonable hours
of the day or night, any place in which workers
in any industry or service are employed, for the
purpose of inspection of  any register or for
ascertaining whether the provisions of this Act
are being complied with;
(b) where no such register is available for
examination when he inspects such place, to
require the production of such register on a
specified later date for examination at such place
or at the office of such authority;
Special
provisions
regarding
continuation of
employment.
Duty of the
employer to
maintain a
register.
Powers of
competent
authority.

<!-- page 4 -->

National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
3
(c) to take copies of the whole or any part of any
such register;
(d) to question any person whom he finds in such
place and  has reasonable cause to believe is the
employer of workers employed in any industry
or service carried on in such place; or
(e) to direct, in writing, any employer of workers
employed in any industry or service to furnish
him on or before a specified date, with-
(i) a return, relating to all workers employed
by any such employer in any specified
class or description of such workers and
containing such other particulars as he
may require for the purposes of this Act;
(ii) such information or explanation as he may
require in respect of particulars stated in
any return furnished by any such
employer; or
(iii) a true copy of the whole or any part of any
register maintained by any such employer.
7. (1) Every employer shall, when required by the
Commissioner-General, produce the register for inspection
or furnish a true copy thereof or permit a copy of such register
to be taken.
(2) Where an employer of any worker in any industry or
service -
(a) has failed to maintain and keep the register required
to be kept under subsection (1) of section 5; or
(b) fails to produce for inspection when required to do
so under section 6,
Duty to produce
the register.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
the Commissioner-General shall assess the wage or the short
payment thereof, as the case may be, payable to such worker
under this Act on the basis of all the evidence both oral and
documentary, available to him and the provisions of section
8 shall apply where default is made in the payment of any
such wage or part thereof.
8. (1) Where any employer fails to pay the national
minimum monthly or daily wage payable to any worker or
workers under this Act, the Commissioner-General shall, after
such investigation as he may deem necessary, if he is satisfied
that the employer has defaulted payment of the national
minimum monthly or daily wage to such worker or workers,
by notice issued to such employer, require the employer to
deposit with him the amount of such part of the national
minimum monthly or daily wage that is defaulted in respect
of such worker or workers for the period the amount is due,
within the date specified in such notice.
(2) The employer shall, upon receipt of such notice under
subsection (1) deposit with the Commissioner-General the
amount indicated in the notice on or before the date specified
in the notice and any payment of any part of the wage in
default to the worker or workers concerned made by the
employer after receipt of such notice shall not be deemed to
be a valid payment of such amount in default.
(3) Where an employer fails to make the payment of any
sum he is liable to pay as the national minimum monthly or
daily wage under this Act and contravenes subsection (2),
the Commissioner-General shall issue a certificate containing
particulars of the sum so due and the name and place of
residence of the defaulting employer to the Magistrate
having jurisdiction in the division in which the place of
employment of the worker or workers in respect of whom
default is made is situate.The Magistrate shall, thereupon
summon such employer to appear before him to show cause
why further proceedings for the recovery of the sum due
under this Act should not be taken against him and if such
Action against
default of
payment of the
national
minimum wage.

<!-- page 6 -->

National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
5
employer fails to appear before court on the day specified in
such summons or sufficient cause is not shown, as the case
may be, such sum shall be deemed to be a fine imposed by a
sentence of the Magistrate on such employer for an offence
punishable with imprisonment and the provisions of
subsection (1) of section 291 [except paragraphs (a), (d) and
(i)] of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
relating to the default of payment of a fine imposed for such
an offence shall thereupon apply and the  Magistrate may
make any direction which by the provisions of that
subsection he could have made at the time of imposing such
sentence.
(4) The correctness of any statement in a certificate issued
by the Commissioner-General for the purpose of this section
shall not be called in question or examined by the Court in
any proceedings under this section, and accordingly any
statement in such certificate shall be sufficient evidence to
the facts that the amount due under this Act from the
defaulting employer has been duly calculated and that such
amount is in default.
(5) In any proceedings against any employer under this
section for failure to pay any sum which he is liable to pay
under this Act, the burden of proving that the sum was paid
shall lie on the employer.
(6) The provisions of the Prescription Ordinance (Chapter
68) shall not apply to any action brought under subsection
(3).
9. (1) Any employer in any industry or service who
contravenes the provisions of section 3 or section 4 or section
8 of this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty
five thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description
for a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
Offences and
penalties.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
(2) Any person who-
(a) fails to furnish the competent authority with such
assistance as is necessary for any entry or
inspection or for the exercise of his powers under
section 6;
(b) hinders or obstructs such authority in the exercise
of the powers conferred by that section;
(c) refuses to produce any register or furnish any
information which such authority requires him
to produce or furnish;
(d) makes or causes to be made in any register, any
false statement or makes or causes or knowingly
permits to be produced, any register containing
a false statement to such authority, knowing the
same to be false;
(e) furnishes any information to such authority
acting under the powers conferred by that
section, knowing the same to be false; or
(f) fails to comply with any directions given by
such authority under section 6, or who, when
called upon to furnish a return under that section,
knowingly makes or furnishes, or causes to be
made or furnished, a return containing any false
statement,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.

<!-- page 8 -->

National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
7
10. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons then –
(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
person who at the time of the commission of the
offence was a director, general manager, agent,
secretary or officer holding similar office of that
body;
(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of
that firm; or
(c) if that body of persons is not a body corporate,
every person who at the time of the commission of
the offence was a member of that body,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he proves
that the offence was committed without his consent or
connivance and that he exercised all such diligence so as to
prevent the commission of that offence as he ought to have
exercised having regard to the nature of his functions and
the related circumstances.
11. No prosecution for any offence committed under
this Act shall be instituted except by, or with the previous
written sanction of, the Commissioner-General.
12. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to
and not in derogation of the provisions of any other written
law:
Provided however, that in the event of any conflict or
inconsistency between the provisions of this Act and any
other written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
Liability of the
directors and
certain officers
for offences
committed by a
body of persons.
Conditions
necessary for the
prosecution for
offences under
this Act.
Construction of
the Act.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
13. Where there remains, as on the date of coming into
operation of this Act, any unpaid amount of the national
minimum monthly or daily wage payable by any employer
to any worker under section 3 of this Act for the period
commencing on January  1, 2016 and ending on the date on
which this Act comes into operation, and where such
employer pays to such worker such arrears in equal monthly
instalments or higher monthly installments within  a period
of six months commencing from the date on which this Act
comes into operation, such employer shall for all purposes
be deemed to have complied with the provisions of section
3 of this Act.
14. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Commissioner-General” means the person for the time
being holding the office of Commissioner-General
of Labour and includes any person for the time being
holding office as an Additional Commissioner-
General, a Commissioner of Labour, a Deputy
Commissioner of Labour, an Assistant
Commissioner of Labour or a Labour officer;
   “employer” means any person who employs or on whose
behalf any other person employs, any worker and
includes a body of employers (whether such body
is a firm, company, local authority or trade union),
and any person who on behalf of any other person
employs any worker including a competent
authority of a business undertaking vested in the
Government under any written law, the legal heir,
successor in law, executor or administrator and
liquidator of a company and in the case of an
unincorporated body the president or secretary of
such body, and in the case of a partnership the
managing partner or manager;
Interpretation.
Retrospective
effect.

<!-- page 10 -->

National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
9
 “industry or service” includes –
 (a) any trade, business, manufacture and agriculture,
any undertaking or occupation by way of trade,
business, manufacture or agriculture and any
branch or section of trade, business, manufacture
or agriculture;
(b) work or labour of any description whatsoever
performed by persons in the employment of a
local authority, or of a corporation established
by or under any written law for carrying on an
undertaking whether for purposes of trade or
otherwise;
(c) every occupation, calling or service of workers,
and
(d) every undertaking of employers,
but does not include any industry, business or
undertaking which is carried on by any corporation,
board or other body which was or is established by or
under any written law where the Government holds a
majority of the share capital with funds or capital
wholly or partly provided by the Government by way
of grant, loan or otherwise; or any registered society
within the meaning of the Co-operative Societies Law,
No. 5 of 1972 or any religious institution or any
charitable institution within the meaning of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006;
“national minimum wage” means -
(a) the contractual wage or salary of the worker or
the wage prescribed under the Wages Boards
Ordinance (Chapter 136) for the industry or
service to which the worker belongs; and

<!-- page 11 -->

10 National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
(b) wages or basic salary together with the cost of
living allowance, special living allowance or
any other similar allowance;
“worker” means, any person who has entered into or works
under a contract with an employer in any capacity,
whether the contract is expressed or implied, oral
or in writing and whether it is a contract of service
or of apprenticeship excluding a contract of
apprenticeship covered under the Tertiary and
Vocational Education Act, No. 20 of 1990 and the
Employment of Trainees (Private Sector) Act, No. 8
of 1978, or a contract personally to execute any
work or labour and includes any person ordinarily
employed under any such contract whether such
person is or is not in employment at any particular
time and includes any person whose services have
been terminated but does not include a domestic
servant.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 12 -->

National Minimum Wage of Workers
Act, No. 3 of 2016
11
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .