

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 246]
————————
Presented by the Minister of Justice on 06th June, 2013
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
to  make Special Provision to exempt internally displaced persons from
certain requirements of the Registration of Electors Act,  No.  44  of  1980;
  and to  provide  for matters  connected   therewith  or incidental thereto.

<!-- page 2 -->

1Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
2—PL 007295—350 (06/2013)
L.D.—O. 32/2013.
AN  ACT  TO  MAKE SPECIAL PROVISION TO EXEMPT INTERNALLY
DISPLACED  PERSONS  FROM CERTAIN  REQUIREMENTS  OF THE
REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS ACT, NO. 44 OF 1980; AND TO PROVIDE
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS certain persons have been internally displaced
owing to the armed conflict which prevailed in Sri Lanka
during the recent past:
AND WHEREAS the State has formulated a policy to enable
internally displaced persons and their children eligible to
vote to exercise their right to franchise in the electoral district
in which their permanent places of residence were situated
prior to being internally displaced;
AND WHEREAS it had now become necessary to make special
legal provision in order to give effect to such policy:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Registration of Electors
(Special Provisions) Act, No.    of 2013.
2. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980, any citizen of
Sri Lanka—
(a) who is an internally displaced person;
(b) whose name appeared in the register of electors for
any electoral district in the Northern Province or
Eastern Province for any year, until the end of the
year 2009; and
(c) whose name has not been entered in any register in
operation subsequent to the year 2009,
Preamble.
Short title.
Internally
displaced
persons
eligible to be
registered.
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
shall on proof of the matters specified in paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) and on production of a certificate issued by the Grama
Niladhari of the area in which he is presently residing to the
effect that he is an internally displaced person, be entitled to
apply to the registering officer of the electoral destrict within
which he was permanently resident prior to May 18, 2009, to
be registered in the register of electors of such electoral
district.
(2) The application referred to in subsection (1), shall be
made on or before the date specified by the Commissioner of
Elections by notice published in the Gazette.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
entitlement granted under that subsection shall be extended
to the children of a citizen referred to in subsection (1) —
(a) who had not attained the age of eighteen years on
the date on which such citizen became an internally
displaced person;
(b) who were born after such citizen became an
internally displaced person and have attained the
age of eighteen years or more on the date of
operations if this Act; and
(c) whose name has not been entered in any register in
operation subsequent to the year 2009,
on production of the birth certificate of such child sought to
be registered and a certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari
of the area in which he is presently residing on proof of the
matters specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) and (c) above.
3. (1) The registering officer shall prepare a list of names
of persons referred to in section 2 and shall give notice in the
Gazette and in at least one newspaper each in the Sinhalese,
English and Tamil languages that such list has been completed
and is open for inspection at all reasonable hours of the day
at the office of the registering officer.
5
10
15
20
25
30
List of
Claims.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) (a) Any person who has applied to be registered in ny
register of electors for any electoral district in the Northern
Province or Eastern Province and whose name has not
appeared in the list referred to in subsection (1) may appeal
in writing to the registering officer within one week of the
notice published in the Gazette.
(b) The provisions of subsection (8) to (16) of section 14
of the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980 shall
mutatis mutandis apply to appeals against decisions of the
registering offecer.
(c) If upon such appeal and inquiry, the registering officer
decides not to include the name of such appellant in the
Supplementary Register referred to in section 4, the aggrieved
appellant may appeal to the revising officer within one week
of the decision of the registering offecer and the provisions
of subsection (2) to (5)  of section 15 of the Registration of
Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980 shall mutatis mutandis apply to
an appeal made under this paragraph.
4. The registering officer of each Electoral District shall
prepare and certify a Supplementary Register containing
the names of the persons whose names appear in the list
prepared under section 3 after inquiry and adjudication if
any, and finalize such Register in terms of that section:
Provided that the registering officer may certify the
Supplementary Register during the pendency of an appeal
to the revising officer and shall thereafter enter in, or expunge
from, such Register, the name of any person in accordance
with the decision of the revising officer on the determination
of such appeal.
5. (1) No person whose name appears in the
Supplementary Register shall be entitled to have his name
entered in any other register of electors notwithstanding
that  he may be qualified to have his name entered in two or
more registers.
Supplementary
Register.
Offences.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
(2) No perosn shall be entitled to have his name entered
more than once in the same register, notwithstanding that he
may be qualified to have his name so entered.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, if a person
whose name appears in the Supplementary Register has his
name appearing in any other register of electors and uses his
vote in two or more electoral districts, he shall be guilty of
an offence and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment
for a teme of two years or to a fine not exceeding Rupees
One Hundred Thousand or to both such imprisonment and
fine.
(4) Any person referred to in section 2, who furnishes
false information or forge documents for any purpose referred
to in this Act,  shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to imprisonment for a term of one year
or to a fine not exceeding Rupees fifty thousand or to both
such imprisonment and fine.
6. (1) This Act shall be in operation for a period of two
years commencing from the date of operation of this Act.
(2) The Minister may, at any time within one month prior
to the expiration of the period of operation of this Act, by
Order published in the Gazette, extend for a further period
the operation of the Act, so however that the aggregate period
of any one extension shall not exceed two years from the
date of the extension so granted.
(3) The Order made under subsection (2) shall be operative
when the signature of the Minister is affixed thereto and
every such Order shall be published in the Gazette.
(4) Every Order made under subsection (3) shall be placed
before Parliament within three months from the date of
publication of such Order in the Gazette.
(5) A notification specifying of the date on which
Parliament has approved the Order shall be published in the
Gazette.
Period of
operation of
the Act and
extension
thereof.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
8. In this Act—
“Commissioner of Elections” has the same meaning
as in the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of
1980;
“internally displaced person” means a citizen of Sri
Lanka who was permanently resident in the
Northern Province or Eastern Province and who
was forced or obliged to leave from his residence
at any time prior to May 18, 2009, as a result of
the armed conflict which took pace in Sri Lanka,
and currently resideds in Sri Lanka outside his
original place of residence in the Northern
Province or Eastern Province;
“registering officer” has the same meaning as in the
Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980;
“register in operation” has the same meaning as in
the Registration of Electors Act No. 44 of 1980;
“revising officer” has the same meaning as in the
Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980;
ENDORSEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 122 OF
THE CONSTITUTION
It is hereby certified that in the view of the Cabinet of Ministers
the above Bill is urgent in the national interest.
S. Abeysinghe,
Secretary to the Cabinet of Ministers.
May 26, 2013
5
10
15
20
Interpretation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .