

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
   
 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 214
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"387 - 2024 uehs ui 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'05'31              
 No. 2,387 - FRidAy , MAy  31, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtiON  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  20th June 2024 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th June 2024.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.”  
 Gangani Liyanage,  
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
213 - B 082575 - 353 (05/2024)
Page Page
N. B.–    the list of Juror's in the year 2024 of the Jurisdiction Areas of Kegalle district has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in 
Sinhala, tamil and English Languages.
note : (i)  Civil Procediure Code (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 03, 2024.
 (ii)  Institute of Quantity Surveyor, Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 17, 2024.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'31
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka – 31.05.2024
214
miscellaneous  Land notices
LAnD  commISSIoneR  GeneRAL’S  
DePARTmenT
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General : 4/10/74173.
Ref. No. of Provincial  Land Commissioner : 
NWP/PLC/L9/PN/L tL/14.
Notification under State Land Regulation                   
no. 21 (2)
it is hereby noticed that Napronet (Private) Limited has 
requested the State land allotment in extent of 0.2141 Hectare 
depicted as Lot No. A in the Sketch No. 2023/01 prepared by 
the Land Officer and situated in the Village of Paragammana 
in No. 1528, Paragammana Grama Niladhari division which 
belongs to Pannala divisional Secretary's division in the 
Kurunegala district of North Western Province on lease for 
Commercial Purposes. 
02. the boundaries of the land requested are given below :
     
On the North by    : Road reserve; 
On the East by    : Remaining part of Lot No. 234 F.V .P. 
   325;
On the South by   : Remaining part of Lot No. 234 F.V .P. 
   325 and Lot No. 242;  
On the West by    : Lot No. 241 F.V .P. 325 and Lot 
   No. 227.
03. the requested land can be granted lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other government approved 
conditions and the following conditions  :
 (a)  Term of lease : thirty (30) years (from  20.03.2024 
onwards).
  Annual amount of the lease : in the instances where 
the valuation of land in the y ear 2024 is less than Five 
Million Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000.00), 2% of the market 
value of the land in the said year, as per the valuation of 
the Chief Valuer. in the instances where the valuation 
of land in the y ear 2024 is more than Five Million 
Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000.00), 4% of the market value 
of the land in the said year, as per the valuation  of the 
Chief Valuer. this amount of the lease must be revised 
in every Five years and the revision shall be added a 
20% of the amount that just preceded.
  Premium : Not levied.
 (b) the lessees must, within a period of one year from 
the date of commencement of the lease, develop the 
said land to the satisfaction of the Provincial Land 
Commissioner/ divisional Secretary;
 (c)   the lessees must not use the said land for any purpose 
whatsoever other than a Commercial Purpose; 
 
  (d)  this lease shall also be subject to other special conditions 
imposed by the Provincial Land Commissioner (North 
Western)/ divisional Secretary/ institutions relevant to 
the project and other institutes;
 (e) Existing/ constructed buildings must be maintained in 
a proper state of repair;
 (f) if the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for which 
the land was obtained within the specified period of 
time, steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of 
lease;
  (g)   No permission will be granted until expiry of 05 years 
from  20.03.2024 for any subleasing or assigning ;
 (h)  Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse;
 (i) in case of non-payment of lease, a penalty interest of 
10% will be charged on the lease in arrears.
if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within  
six (06) weeks of  the herein Gazette  publication to the effect 
that this land must not be given on lease, the land shall be 
leased out as requested.
 
  
 M. H. A. T. Madhushani, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner 
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
“Mihikatha Medura”,
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
03rd  May, 2024.
05-310

<!-- page 3 -->

  III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'31
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka –31.05.2024
215
LAnD  commISSIoneR  GeneRAL’S  
DePARTmenT
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General : 4/10/63577.
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner (Inter Provincial) : 
LCO/AM/LANd/LEASE/dAMANA/37.
Notification under State Land Regulation                   
no. 21 (2)
IT is hereby noticed that Mr. Henaka Ralalage Priyantha 
Jayarathna has requested a State land allotment in extent 
of about 10 Perches depicted in the sketch prepared by the 
Colonization Officer and situated in the Village of Galkanda 
of No. W.26D, Galkanda Grama Niladhari Division which 
belongs to damana divisional Secretary's division in district 
of Ampara on lease for Commercial Purposes. 
02. the boundaries of the land requested are given below :
     
On the North by    : Galkanda Dewalahinda road 
   reserve; 
On the East by    : State land and canal reserve ;
On the South by   : JW6 Canal reserve; 
On the West by    : State land near the paddy warehouse.
03. the requested land can be granted lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions  :
 (a)  Term of lease : thirty (30) years (from 10.08.2021, 
date on which the Hon. Minister granted approval).
  Annual amount of the lease : in the instances where 
the valuation of land in the year 2021 is less than Five 
Million Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000.00), 2% of the market 
value of the land in the said year, as per the valuation of 
the Chief Valuer. in the instances where the valuation 
of land in the y ear 2021 is more than Five Million 
Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000.00), 4% of the market value 
of the land in the said year, as per the valuation  of the 
Chief Valuer. this amount of the lease must be revised 
in every Five years and the revision shall be added a 
20% of the amount that just preceded.
  Premium : Not levied;
 (b)  t he lessees must, within a period of one (01) year 
from the date of commencement of the lease, develop 
the said land to the satisfaction of the Provincial Land 
Commissioner/ Land Commissioner (inter Provincial)/ 
divisional Secretary;
 (c)   the lessees must not use the said land for any purpose 
whatsoever other than a Commercial Purpose; 
 
  (d)  this lease shall also be subject to other special conditions 
imposed by the Provincial Land Commissioner / 
divisional Secretary and other institutes;
 (e)  Constructed/ existing buildings must be maintained in 
a proper state of repair;
 (f) if the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for which 
the land was obtained within the specified period of 
time, steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of 
lease;
  (g)   No permission will be granted until expiry of 05 years 
from  the effective date of the lease for any  subleasing 
or assigning ;
 (h)  Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse.
  if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within  six (06) weeks of  the here in Gazette  
publication to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land shall be leased out as requested.
  
 Sameera P. Hettiarachchi,  
 Assistant Land Commissioner 
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
“Mihikatha Medura”,
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
03
rd  december, 2021.
05-317
PRINTED   AT  THE  DEPARTMENT   OF  GOVERNMENT   PRINTING ,  SRI  LANkA .