

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2019
1A
wxl 2141$88 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 21 jeks fikiqrdod - 2019'09'21
No.  2141/88 - SATURDAY,  SEPTEMBER 21,  2019
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - G   31036  — 387   (09/2019)
Proclamations & C. by the President
P.S. No. PS/CSA/00/1/14/8
BY  HIS   EXCELLENCY   MAITHRIPALA    SIRISENA
 PRESIDENT   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA
MAITHRIPALA S IRISENA
              To :
(i) Hon. Janak de Silva Esquire
Judge of the Court of Appeal
(ii) Hon. Nissanka Bandula Karunarathna Esquire
Judge of the Court of Appeal
(iii) Hon. Nihal Sunil Rajapaksa Esquire
Retired Judge of the Court of Appeal
(iv) H on. Atapattu Liyanage Bandula Kumara Atapattu Esquire
Retired Judge of the High Court
(v) Ms. W.M.M. Adikari
Retired Ministry Secretary
Seal

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2019
2A
Greetings :
WHEREAS, as on 21st April, 2019, suicide bomb attacks took place in Catholic Churches at Kochchikade in
Colombo, Katuwapitiya in Negombo and in Zion Christian Church in Batticaloa and in main Hotels in Colombo, causing
deadly injuries to a  large number of persons and making a large number of people totally disabled and loss of lives and
causing damages to a large number of properties ;
AND WHEREAS, a large number of complaints and allegations have been made against persons, who were public
servants /  officers, who are alleged to have direct or indirect connections with causing loss of life, totally disabling persons,
injuries to a large number of persons and causing damages to properties as a result of aforesaid suicide bomb attacks ;
AND WHEREAS, it is imparative to ensure that the law should be implemented against those who are directly or
indirectly responsible for those attacks ;
AND WHEREAS, I am of the opinion that it is in the best interest of public security and welfare to cause the
conduct of investigations and inquiries into such complaints, allegations and information, in order to ascertain what
measures should be taken to provide far and ensure that the law is appropriately enforced and wrong doers dealt with in
terms of the law and that there will be no recurrence of such alleged acts and / or omissions, negligence or failure to
perform duties  amounting to offences and abuse or misuse of power or authority ;
AND WHEREAS, I am of the view that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to investigate and
inquire into and report or take necessary action on matters hereinafter referred to and provided for ;
NOW THEREFORE, I, Maithripala Sirisena, the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing
great trust and confidence in your integrity, prudence, ability and fidelity, do in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of
the Commission of Inquiry Act (chapter 393), by these presents appoint you, the said —
(i) Hon. Janak de Silva Esquire
Judge of the Court of Appeal
(ii) Hon. Nissanka Bandula Karunarathna Esquire
Judge of the Court of Appeal
(iii) Hon. Nihal Sunil Rajapaksa Esquire
Retired Judge of the Court of Appeal
(iv) Hon. Atapattu Liyanage Bandula Kumara Atapattu Esquire
Retired Judge of the High Court
(v) Ms. W.M.M. Adikari
Retired Ministry Secretary
to be my Commissioners to investigate and inquire into, take necessary action to enable future legal actions, and report on
the following matters, namely —
1. To call and receive public complaints,  information and other materials against public servants / officers or other
persons who were working at  that time or who still work or any other persons who are alleged to have  direct or
indirect connections to the bomb explosion that took place on 21st April,  2019 causing loss of life or damaged to
properties or regarding  acts or abuse of misuse of power and such other alleged act and / or  omissions,
2. To held prompt, impartial, complete investigations and inquiries regarding complaints,  information and other
materials referred to in paragraph 1 above,

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2019
3A
3. To identify persons and organizations who are directly or indirectly connected to these terrorist acts referred to
in paragraph 1 above,
4. To identify officers and authorities responsible who failed to pre- determine that a terrorist and extremist activities
of this nature would  take place within the country and to ascertain matters incidental it and who failed or neglected
to take action according to law and not taking  proper actions in this regard,
5. To identify all authorities who are responsible for failure to prevent the terrorist attacks that took place on 21st
April, 2019 and for identify the authorities, who failed to perform their duties and did not take proper action due to
incapacity,
6. To identify persons and organizations,  who are connected with public protests, acts of sabotage, causing damages
to properties and persons and  thereby causing public unrest, after the attack took place on 21st April, 2019,
7. To identify persons,  organizations,  who aid and abet actions which  caused racial and religious disturbances or
give support for such acts within the country and which created public unrest and which disturbed  social order
and disrupted the social integrity and caused racial disturbances,
8. To ascertain the circumstances and causes that led to an the nature and particulars of the incidents which took place
in the Island on 21st April, 2019 and resulting in —
(a) death or total disablement or injury to persons;
(b) the destruction or damage of property belonging to or in the possession of any state institution or state or a
place of religious worship or private institution;
9. Whether any person or body of persons or any organization or any person or persons connected with such
organization —
(a) committed or conspired to commit ;
(b) aided or abetted in or conspired to aid or abet financially / physically or psychologically in the commission ;
(c) in any manner assisted encourage or were concerned in or conspired to assist or encourage the Commission
of any of the acts referred to in paragraph (1) and to recommend such measures as may be necessary —
(i) to rehabilitate or assist in any other manner the persons affected by such course of action ;
(ii) to ensure the safety of the public ;
(iii) to prevent the recurrence of such incidents.
10. To identify which of the acts coming within the ambit of matters referred to in above, should be forwarded to the
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption or to the Police or to any other law enforcement
authority or statutory body for the conduct of  necessary investigations and inquiries with the view to instituting
criminal proceedings against persons alleged to have committed to the said offences,

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 21.09.2019
4A
11. To transmit to the Attorney General such material on investigations and inquiry, enabling the Attorney General to
consider the institution of criminal proceedings against persons alleged to have committed the said offences ;
12. To present to me recommendations of the commission regarding what  action if any, should be taken against
those held responsible for having committed offences and acts of wrongdoing and recommendations aimed at
preventing the occurrence of such offences and acts of wrongdoing in the future,
13. To make recommendations on measures to be taken to prevent the possible damage to national security and national
unity by such acts of terrorism and extremism.
AND, I do hereby appoint you the said Hon. Janak de Silva Esquire to be the Chairman of the said Commission.
AND, I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said commissioners, to conduct or cause the conduct of
necessary criminal and forensic investigations and inquiries and hold all public and / or confidential inquiries into the
aforesaid matters as may appear to you to be necessary, and require you to transmit to me within three months from the date
of this warrant the first Interim Report, and thereafter subsequent Interim Reports once in two months, and the final Report
within the six months  of the date hereof under your hand, setting out the findings of your investigations and inquiries, and
your recommendations relating thereto.
AND, I hereby direct that any three Commissioners from among you shall participate in the Commission meetings to
fulfill its quorum.
AND,  I do hereby direct that such part of any investigations or inquiry relating to the aforesaid matters, as you may
in your discretion determine,  shall not be held in public.
AND, I do hereby require and direct all public servants, armed forces personnel and officers of statutory bodies, and
other persons to whom you may apply for assistance or information, to render all such assistance and furnish all such
information required for investigation or inquiries as may be properly rendered and furnished in that behalf.
AND, I do hereby declare that the provisions of Section 14 of the aforesaid Commissions of Inquiry Act, No. 17 of
1948  (Chapter 393) as amended, shall apply to this Commission.
Given at Colombo, under the Seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of   Sri Lanka on this Twentieth day of
September, Two Thousand and Nineteen.
                                                         By order of His Excellency,
U
DAYA R. SENEVIRATNE,
Secretary to the President.
10 - 217
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.