

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2313$50 – 2023 ckjdß ui 05 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2023'01'05
No. 2313/50 – THURSDAY, JANUARY  05, 2023
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 38503–07 (2023/01)
RULES FOR ELDERS ORGANIZATIONS
RULES commonly applicable for Rural Elders Societies, Regional Elders  Organizations, District Elders Organizations 
and Provincial Elders Organizations established covering all th e Grama Niladhari Divisions of the Island in accordance 
with Section 14 of Act, No. 09 of 2000, amended by Act, No. 05 of 2011 have been set as per the Section 35 (1) of General 
Provisions in Part VIII of the Act, No. 09 of 2000.
 His excellency President's approval has been received to gazette and print following sets of rules prepared in three 
languages as per the Section 35 (2) of General Provisions in Part VIII of the Act, No. 09 of 2000.
• Rural Elders Societies
• Regional Elders Organizations
• District Elders Organizations
• Provincial Elders Organizations
 K.G. Lൺඇൾඋඈඅ,
 Director.
 National Secretariat for Elders,
 2nd Floor,
 Block D,
 Sethsiripaya - II Stage
 Baththaramulla.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 2A
Rules for Rural Elders Societies, prepared in accordance with Sub-section (g) 
in Section 14 of Act, No. 09 of 2000, amended by Act No. 05 of 2011 
National Secretariats for Elders'
Registration Number :
Registration Date  :
     
Name :- Name of this organization is cited as ………………………………………………………………………………….
1. It shall be referred as the society in Constitutions and all the written declarations hereinafter. 
2. The address ………………………………………………………. shall be the address of the Secretary of the society or 
the other place, decided by the General Assembly.  Changing the address is not a changing the rules and such a change 
shall be informed to Divisional Secretary / Director of National Elders Secretariat within 7 days. 
3. Grama Niladhari Division :- 
4. Divisional Secretariat  :-
5. District :-
6. Date of inception :-
7. Goal of the organization  : 
Enhancement the living standards of the elders live in the area of the society and making them satisﬁ ed senior citizens, 
contributing to accomplish social, economic and cultural necessities, in accordance with Protection of the rights of the 
Elders Act and rules imposed thereunder.     
8. Powers and Functions of the Society :
 
i. Working for the promotion of mental, health, spiritual, economic, physical welfare of the elders living in rural 
area by protecting their freedom, independence, care, dignity and self-esteem. 
ii. Building the good morals and well-being of the society   by ide ntifying and implementing welfare programs 
through a Participatory Development Approach for elders live in  the area and children, youth and disabled 
communities, responsible for them.
iii. Development the economic status of the elders through identifying income generating projects and implementing 
those projects in coordinating with relevant persons and Institutes.
iv. Identifying the innate skills of adults and developing and appreciating those skills.
v. Identifying economically and socially disadvantaged elders and empowering them and providing them welfare 
services.
vi. Introducing strategies and provide guidance in legal, health, m ental assisting to avoid various problematic 
situations faced by the elders generally.
vii. Directing elders to their social, economic, spiritual and cultu ral development, organizing, empowering and 
contributing to implement, providing leadership for various wel fare projects granted under government 
and non-government organizations, Contributing to establish a h umanistic social environment within its 
area through coordinating by gathering elders, who need service s and live in rural and urban areas using 
Participatory Development Approach.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 3A
viii. Identifying resource persons in the area, availing their services and evaluating them.
ix. Identifying income generation programs of low income elderly pe rsons live in the area and implementation 
those programs.
x. Conducting health clinics, counseling, entertainment, religious and cultivation projects and programs. 
xi. Assisting to solve the common problems and issues faced by the elders living in the area of the rural Society 
at rural level.
xii. Sharing the knowledge and experience of senior citizens who has expert knowledge.
9. Domain  :-
…………………. Grama Niladhari Division bearing No.…………located in ………………….. Divisional Secretariat 
area of ………………….District shall be the domain of this Society.
10. Membership of the Society
Members of the Society at the time of registration a Society under this constitution and the members who get membership 
after the registration of the Society, shall have following qualiﬁ cations -
i. Qualiﬁ cations :
 Should be permanent residents of the area
 Should be over 60 years of age
 Should be a person with good character and willing to comply all the provisions mentioned in these rules. 
ii. Enrolment :
 Sign the pioneer member to the application to register 
 Complete and submit a data report and application comprising his information and get approval of the General 
Assembly and the Committee.
iii. Member Register :
A register of the members shall be maintained in accordance with the Schedule format. (It shall be in the custody of the 
secretary of the Society. The detail of member’s name, address, date of birth, Identity card number, Elder’s Identity card 
number and names, addresses and occupations of the children or guardians who are caring them shall be in accordance 
with the format supplied by Elders Secretariat) 
iv. Duties, Responsibilities and Rights of the members
He / She will have member’s rights after getting approval to membership by General Assembly. Franchise entitled as a 
member’s right shall be used by himself / herself and members have duties, responsibilities and rights on to be elected 
to any post of the Society, to propose or ratify proposals for a member for that, to bring a motion of no conﬁ  dence 
against it or vote for such a no conﬁ dence,  if the oﬃ  ce holders abuse their powers and violate these constitutions , to 
act transparently in connection with the transactions of the So ciety, to have beneﬁ ts, to be partners in all the activities 
indicated in the constitution, if contributing to ﬁ nancial aﬀ airs such as deposits and loans.  

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 4A
Termination of membership
Death
Resignation
Abolition the membership on the decisions of General Assembly due to violation of rules
Conviction by a court in connection with an immoral act /ﬁ nancial fraud
Withdrawal from the area of membership
Taking a legal decision due to any dispute with the Society conﬁ rming that dispute
Unannounced absence from 3 consecutive meetings
 In termination the membership on any other reason except the n atural causes or resignation from the above reasons, the 
Secretary of the Society should inform it to relevant member before a month after making a committee decision considering 
the facts to be caused  for that and the member will have the opportunity to convince facts to General assembly. The General 
assembly has the power to take a ﬁ  nal decision after considering those matters. However, such a member can submit an 
appeal to the Director / Divisional Secretary regarding the decision of the General Assembly and he can take a ﬁ nal decision 
after conducting an investigation by a special independent committee.
Associate membership 
When any of member is unable to hold active membership due to insanity, inﬁ rmity and impotence, his /her membership can 
be persisted as an Associate Member of the Society and he /she is entitled to have welfare and other privileges of the Society. 
General Assembly
Meetings of General Assembly
General Assembly meetings shall be held monthly. Apart from tha t, on the written request of its membership made in 
accordance of the rules or on the persistence of the Society, the Special General Meetings can be held on the decision of the 
committee. Except from that, Director of National Secretariat for Elders/ Divisional Secretary can call a General Assembly 
meeting by a written notice made by himself or a representative  authorized by him within 7 of working days and presence 
of 10 members is considered as the quorum for those meetings. 
General Assembly shall be called by the Secretary of the Societ y. Calling of meetings shall be made on a standard 
communication method or on the communication method prescribed by the committee and the committee shall satisfy 
whether the members have been duly informed. 
 Minutes of the General Assembly shall be taken in the same ins tance by Secretary of the Society and when he/she is 
absent, it shall be done by a person, who were authorized by the committee .
 The chair of the General Assembly shall be held by the President of the Society, in his absence the Vice-President and in 
the absence of both of them, an oﬃ  cer belonging to the Committee may be temporarily appointed a s the President, based 
on the proposal adopted by the General Assembly. But his presidency shall be eﬀ ective only for that meeting. The chair of 
a meeting, called by Director of National Elders Secretariat/ Divisional Secretary or authorized representative, shall be held 
by the authorized President or Vice-President / Vice-Secretary. 
Powers and Functions
General Assembly shall be held on the Agenda, passed by the com mittee and communicated to the members. However, if 
non-ﬁ nancial proposals are presented by the General Assembly, it can be considered during the meeting of General Assembly. 
Further, all the functions, enforced by these rules can be implemented in the General Assembly meeting. General Assembly 
can decide  actions such as to grant new memberships, suspensio n or cancellation of the membership on formal inquiry, to 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 5A
expulsion from membership, to consider the committee recommendations related to annual budget estimates, development 
plans and projects and making relevant decisions, to consider a bout annual audit report, to appoint the oﬃ  cers as per the 
rules, to make decisions to buy or sell and rent or lease the a ssets, considering about the reports of special investigations 
conducted by Director of National Elders Secretariat / Divisional Secretary or making decisions related to those reports, to 
integrate of Societies, division or liquidation of Societies and making decisions on no-faith incidents.
Composition, Operation, Powers and Functions of the General Assembly
The general assembly of the Society consists of the founding me mbers and the members approved after the ﬁ  rst general 
assembly. As well, if the membership has been acquired, it can be represented the Annual General Meeting on the active 
contribution (participation and ﬁ nancial contribution) for the well-being of its members in accordance with these rules, and 
the relevant documents shall be submitted to the Committee by t he Secretary. However, if any inactive member restores 
their membership  in active participation after paying 03 months’ arrears of his contribution, they shall be called for General 
Assembly after that.  
 
Quorum
Quorum of the General Assembly shall be consisted in whichever is less from 1/3 or 25 from number of the members.
Composition of the Committee 
A Committee  composed 09 members including following posts shal l be elected by General Assembly in accordance with 
the rules. It shall be appointed in a general assembly meeting called for that purpose. The Committee thus appointed shall 
be eﬀ ective for two years from the date of appointment. 
Qualiﬁ cations for the Committee
The members to be appointed for the Committee shall have following qualiﬁ cations
1. Shall be an active member of the Society
2. Shall be a person who haven’t got any dispute with the Society
3. Shall not be a defaulter of payment to be paid for Society
4. Shall have a good health condition
5. Shall not have faced for no faith situation or be a person who has not been removed from his post in last 5 years
Powers and functions of the Committee 
1. To prepare estimates and annual plans of the Society and submit them for the approval of the General Assembly.
2. To organize and maintain various projects, activities and other things leading to the welfare of the elders.
3. To collect and protect money and maintain a fund and disburse from it in productive investments approved by the 
General Assembly.
4. Accounting and decision making considering the monthly and annual budget.
5. To submit reports, observations and recommendations to be submitted to the General Assembly in accordance with 
this constitution and to carry out other legal activities.
6. To study audit reports, reports of special inspections and investigations and decision making.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 6A
Forfeit of Committee membership
Committee membership shall be forfeited on the one or more of the following reasons.
1. Expiry of the term of oﬃ  ce
2. Resignation
3. Forfeit the Membership 
4. Being committed to no-faith
5. Removal
In the General Assembly meeting on a ﬁ xed date, qualiﬁ ed members shall be appointed for following oﬃ  ces adopted by the 
consent of majority.  On the disqualiﬁ cation of a person who are bearing the membership of a Provincial Elders Organization 
and appointed representing District Elders Organization, There should be no prejudice to the membership of the said Society 
or the membership of committee of that Society.
Honorary President  
A member of the Society may be appointed as the President by a suggestion adopted in the General Assembly or a nominated 
Government Oﬃ  cer may temporarily hold the post on a decision taken by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat /
Divisional Secretary after considering a certain enquiry. He/she is the Chief Executive of the Society.
Honorary vice-President  
A vice president shall be appointed to act in the absence of the president of the Society. In the occasions that the President of 
the Society has gone abroad, has taken leave due to illness, has taken special leave requesting the committee in the occasion 
that he is unable to perform the duties of his position, he should perform the duties of the post of President. 
Honorary Secretary 
 A member appointed by the General Assembly shall be the Secretary of the Society. He /She should perform the duties of 
calling and reporting the meetings, functioning regarding the c orrespondence of the Society on the orders of the President, 
carrying out prescribed activities  on the orders of the Protection of the Rights of Elders Act, this by-law and  the Committee
Honorary Vice-Secretary  
A Vice-Secretary shall be appointed to act in the absence of the Secretary of the Society. In the occasions that the Secretary 
of the Society has gone abroad, has taken leave due to illness,  has taken special leave requesting the committee in the 
occasion that he is unable to perform the duties of his position, he should perform the duties of the post of Secretary. 
Honorary Treasurer
A member appointed by the General Assembly shall be the Treasurer of the Society. He should act regarding the ﬁ nance of 
the Society in accordance with the constitution. He shall perfo rm the duties on submission the detail of transactions of the 
Society to the Committee and General Assembly and Director or A uthorized Oﬃ  cer or Auditors, ﬁ nancial administration 
aﬀ airs, Bank accounts aﬀ  airs and maintaining and protecting all the accounts books and  performing all types of legal 
activities eﬀ ecting to this Society. 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 7A
Anniversary Meetings of General Assembly 
Anniversary General Assembly Meetings of the Society shall be c onducted annually. That Anniversary General Assembly 
should be held within 03 months of the end of the ﬁ nancial year. In this meeting, annual progress of the Society, Audit report 
of the Society, Action plan of next year and the Budget shall be presented.     
In addition, If there are special proposals presented by the members, it should be considered at this annual meeting.
Capital
Member fees
Every member of the Society shall pay a minimum of Rs. 20/- or such an amount as may be decided by the Society 
as membership fee. It can be paid as installments or annual fee  (in the ﬁ rst 3 months of the year). Those who are paid 
Rs.100/- shall be deemed to have paid the annual membership fee. 
Donations 
This refers the loans, aids and donations given by the governme nt or by the provincial council or by the local 
government bodies in relation to the welfare of the elders or related to the matters compiled in these rules.
Deposits
There shall be a deposit fund on the deposits received by the Society.  In that fund compulsory deposits, normal 
deposits and ﬁ xed deposits can be made from members and non-members as well and the rate of interest decided by the 
Society  shall be paid annually. 
External borrowings
Loans can be obtained from the Government, the Provincial Counc il, the Local Government bodies or the Banks, 
Corporations, Boards and any other Institutions for the ﬁ  nancial needs of the Society and a formal procedure should be 
followed in obtaining these loans. In obtaining these loans, th ere shall be a General Assembly approved limit for external 
loans and loans can be obtained subject to that limit. Decision making power on these loans is belonged to the Society.
Net Proﬁ t
40% of the residual proﬁ t shown in the annual audit conducted by the Society shall be added to the working capital 
of the Society as a safety reserve on the decisions of General Assembly. 
Income earned by other ways 
This refers the ﬁ  nance generating programs, income generating projects and cont racts, businesses and money 
generated by building various funds to continue activities of the organization on the base of its functions.
When obtaining aids from various projects, especially in the case of contracts, it should be concerned to charge the 
relevant percentage in accordance with the instructions issued by the Treasury. 
Financial year
The ﬁ nancial year of the organization shall be from 01
st of February of each year to 31st of January of the following year. 
Handling money 
The money received by the 
Society under the above Articles shall be the common funds of the organization. Thus it consists 
membership funds and various government and non-government fund s as well, It is subject to the provisions of the Public 
Property Act No. 12 of 1982. All the money handling and Bank ac counts handling aﬀ airs of the Society should be done 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 8A
by the Treasurer as per the orders of the President. However, s ignature sheets of the clients of rural elders Society must be 
approved by Director / Divisional Secretary and it will be possible to recruit employees for this purpose on the prior approval 
of the Director when the deals of Society is wider.
In the case of monetary transactions, the Society shall maintain the transactions through a current account of a Bank approved 
by the Divisional Secretary/Director, or through a savings account of a rural level Bank, and Treasurer of the Society should 
deposit money in the current account when the balance in his ha nd exceeds  Rs.5,000/- and when the balance of current 
account exceeds  Rs.50,000/- he should invest extra cash availa ble in addition to ﬁ nancial requirements of the Society, in 
the ﬁ xed deposits.
All the receipts and payments of the Society should be made on receipts and vouchers and those should be recorded daily in 
the cash book as receipts and payments. All the personal accounts shown in the cash book should be recorded in the personal 
ledgers, and the creditor’s and debtor’s accounts should be rec orded in the creditor’s and debtor’s ledgers. The Treasurer 
shall submit monthly ﬁ nancial report to the Society. Small amounts of daily  expenses of the Society shall be maintained on a 
petty cash imprest method and  expenditures made in petty cash should be in a maximum of Rs. 500/- and petty cash imprest 
shall be Rs. 5,000/-. A separate cash book should be maintained for petty cash and petty cash should be settled and balanced 
the account at the end of every month. All other expenses except expenses of the Society incurred in petty cash shall be made 
through Bank accounts. However, an advance may be granted for a certain matter and that advance shall be issued only to a 
member of the Committee or to a member who have bond with the agreement in connection with that matter. He shall make 
actions to settle the advance within a week of completion of the respective work.
Residual money
The residual amount of money shall be determined after the annual audit of the 
Society. 40% from the residual amount shall 
be added to the working capital of the Society as a safety reserve and 10% contribution fee shall be paid for the contribution 
of Regional Organization Fund. The rest of money can be disbursed to :
1. Buy assets
2. Welfare aﬀ airs
3. Donations and special events identiﬁ ed by committees
4. Cultural, social and common welfare activities
5. Other expenses approved by the Committee and General Assembly
All the matters mentioned above shall be considered in a general assembly meeting held with the participation of Divisional 
Secretary or Social Services Oﬃ  cer / Elder’s Right Promotion Oﬃ  cer/ Development Oﬃ  cer/ Provincial Social Services 
Oﬃ  cer nominated by the Divisional Secretary.    
Welfare 
Welfare activities of the 
Society shall be carried out for members, for children with disabiliti es and as common welfare 
activities for non-members. 
Welfare funds
Welfare fund shall be maintained in the custody of the Treasurer of the 
Society. The expenses incurred by those funds shall 
be approved expenses by the Committee or the General Assembly.  However, due to an emergency matter, expenses up to 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 9A
Rs. 5000/= can be incurred on the orders of the President of the Society, related to the orders imposed under these rules and 
an amount not exceeding Rs. 10,000/= can be incurred on the approval of the committee.  
1. Monthly contribution fees of its members
2. Allocations assigned as per this constitution after conducting the Audit. 
3. Contributions to this fund by the surplus generated from various projects of the Society.
4. Miscellaneous donations 
5. Dividend revenue or interest revenue received for welfare fund 
When incurring expenses from this fund, necessities or the prio rity should be identiﬁ ed by the committee.  The welfare of 
the members shall be the priority of the activities of this fund. In addition, committee can decide the contributions for above 
mentioned activities from welfare fund. Welfare expenses should not be made based on any other purpose but only related 
to welfare.
Additional Contributions to welfare fund
40% from surplus amount arisen after the annual audit of the 
Society shall be added to this fund. This allocations of 
contribution  shall be credit to the welfare fund from working capital of the Society after presenting the audit report in 
General Assembly. 
Donations
Donations to this fund can be received from members, non-member s, state, provincial councils, local councils and various 
corporations, boards, institutions and organizations. It can be  granted as ﬁ  nancial and material with values. Financial 
donations shall be incurred for the matters proposed by those donors in compliance with these rules. 
1. Financial expenses
2. Material expenses 
3. Expenses through miscellaneous constructions
4. Expenses on illnesses or disorders
5. Expenditure on hygiene and health facilities  
6. Expenditure on religious, cultural and common social welfare
7. Other expenses recommended by the Government, Provincial Council or Local Government or Divisional Secretary 
in compliance with these rules 
Loan relief aﬀ airs 
On an amount not exceeding 2/3 from working capital  and using deposits, aids and loans obtained from the Bank on outside 
loan limits, every member can be granted loans on subsidized interests.    
For the loans provided ﬁ  nancing from external Institutions, terms and conditions of th ose Institutions shall be apply 
additionally. The Committee shall determine the interest rates on loans from time to time. Interest rates shall not exceed 4% 
from the rates paid for deposits.
Interests
Maximum amount of the loans shall be determined by the committe e of the Society based on the ﬁ nancial information of 
each member and loans shall not be provided exceeding those lim its. All the decisions should be made on the committee 
orders.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 10A
Guarantees 
Two guarantors should sign for loans and one member is eligible  to sign for three guarantees. The guarantor should have 
obtained a complete membership and he should also have all the qualiﬁ cations that should have to the loan applicant. If a 
guarantor’s membership right is revoked, the agreement should be amended and another qualiﬁ ed member should be made 
as a guarantor. Guarantors and debtors should be equally accoun table for a loan. In addition to membership loans, group 
loans can be available for special projects and such loans are not available for individuals. When providing loans from 
outside ﬁ nancial Institutions, terms and conditions of those Institutions shall apply additionally. When a member gets a loan, 
in addition to these guarantees, the spouse or children or a cl ose relative, guardian, protector should be taken as additional  
guarantors and the committee has the authority to determine credit limits. 
Functions of the Director/Authority
The full authority of establishment / registration of these Societies is belonged to Director of National Elders Secretariat. The 
Director can delegate his powers to Additional, Deputy and Assistant Directors. In the ﬁ eld, the power of registration of the 
Rural Elders Societies under the Director of National Elders Secretariat is vested to Divisional Secretary. When registration 
of the Society on such powers, a one copy of registration should be forwarded to the Director of National Elders Secretariat.  
The Director of the National Elders Secretariat should act as t o protect rights of the members in the registration of these 
Societies and he may act on taking legal actions for continuity   of the functioning of the Societies, monitoring ﬁ  nancial 
activities of the Societies, decision making on Societies and m embers and various disputes, reorganize the Societies on 
the collapse of possibilities of the Societies to reestablishme nt it as to protect rights of the senior citizens or liquidate and 
dissolve when it is diﬃ  cult to do so and to  conducting a special investigation in c onnection with any general allegation 
against a member of the Rural Elders Society and suspending his/her membership temporarily/permanently. The Director of 
the National Elders Secretariat or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him will have the power to audit the accounts of the organization 
and investigate the functioning and eﬀ ectiveness of the Societies whenever deemed necessary.
Decision making 
All the decision makings should be done by the General Assembly on the recommendations of the Committee. However, The 
Committee has the power to take decisions on urgent matters and  the President has the power to take decisions within the 
limits prescribed by the General Assembly to avoid prejudices a risen due to not taking some decision. But those decisions 
shall be submitted to the Committee and the General assembly to get approval subsequently. When the Societies cannot take 
a decision on certain matter, the Director of National Elders S ecretariat / Divisional Secretary or his Oﬃ  cer has the power 
to be further considered on that. If the General Assembly / Com mittee hesitates to take that decision on the intervention of 
the Director, the Director of National Elders Secretariat can t ake a decision considering the harm that can be arisen on not 
taking that decision. That decision will be the ﬁ nal decision.   
Intervention of the Government Oﬃ  cers
The Society has the power of taking all the necessary decisions  on administration aﬀ airs of the Society. However, if those 
decisions lead to any disputes or an issue related to a ﬁ nancial matter, Divisional Secretary or his authorized representative 
has the power to intervene on that matter. In addition, when a problem arises regarding the establishment and functioning 
of the Society, the Director of National Elders Secretariat can  take a decision after i Societies and Director’s decision will  
be the ﬁ nal decision. 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 11A
Internal and External Audits
1. Audit Committees
An Internal Audit Committee consisted by three persons with abi lity of inquiring on accounts, ﬁ  nancial status and 
functioning of the Society shall be activated. The committee shall be appointed by the General Assembly of the Society. This 
committee should check the monthly summaries and balance sheets  on receipts and payments of the Society and submit a 
report to the committee in next month. In addition, loan deposit investments and projects carried out by the Society should 
be scrutinized by this committee. 
2. External Audit 
Annual audit of the Society can be conducted by a person, whose  name is in a list of the audit oﬃ  cers maintained by 
Director of the National Elders Secretariat / Divisional Secretary. This Audit shall be completed within 03 months after the 
end of ﬁ nancial year and the Audit Report shall be submitted to the General Assembly. The audit should consist of a balance 
sheet that reﬂ ects actual status of the assets and liabilities of the Rural Elders Societies and the Auditor or a Recognized 
Accounting Oﬃ  cer should certify that whether the activities done by Rural Elders Societies within the period of auditing 
are in compliance with these rules and legal provisions regardi ng the rights of elders. In this audit, the Auditor has powers 
entitled to General Auditor and the Society shall disburse the expenses of audit as prescribe by the Director of the National 
Elders Secretariat / Divisional Secretary.
Special Inspections and Investigations
The Director or a person authorized by him can conduct an inspe ction or an investigation on establishment, functioning 
and ﬁ nancial status of the Society in relation to a certain functio n of the Society or in relation to certain deﬁ nite time. The 
authorized person has powers on investigation of documents and properties, obtaining written statements, obtaining various 
reports and data and after submission the relevant report to the Director of National Elders Secretariat, explaining the faults 
and mistakes to the Society, taking explanations for not dismis sing them from their posts, forwarding these information 
to General Assembly, conferring the authority to General Assemb ly to be taken actions for those oﬃ  cers, if the General 
Assembly  does not take actions on that, he can remove the said  committee within 2 weeks and appoint a Board consisted 
03 persons to run the Society. 
General Seal
The Society should have a general seal containing the name of t he Society, registration number, date and address and that 
seal should be in the custody of the Secretary of the Society. On the every legal document signed by the Society should be 
put the seal after signing the President or vice-president, secretary or vice-secretary.  
Agreements
The Society can enter into agreements with its membership, other registered organizations or external institutes and persons, 
Government institutes and Boards for its business aﬀ  airs. Those agreements must comply with the Law of Contacts an d 
when the Society signs as a one party, President / Secretary shall sign. In the absence of President / Secretary the authority  
can be conferred to vice-president / vice-Secretary.   
Amendment of rules
1. If a necessity arises to be amended these rules, that amendment  can be considered and approved by the General 
Assembly on submission that amended rule in writing or if there  is a fact identiﬁ ed by the committee, submission 
it to general assembly with the committee decision.   

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 12A
2. In case of the Director of National Elders Secretariat refers s ome amendment with prior approval, a decision 
should be taken by submission that amendment to the General Ass embly. The amendments recommended by the 
committee, can be passed on 2/3 majority vote in a general asse mbly with quorum and those amendments should 
be submitted to the Director of National Elders Secretariat to get his approval.  Those amendments can be activated 
after receiving the approval of the Director of National Elders Secretariat in writing. 
Disputes
The Director of the Elders Secretariat has the authority to appoint one or a Board consisting three persons whose names are 
mentioned in a list, maintained by the Director of National Elders Secretariat named as arbitrators to investigate the disputes 
to investigate ﬁ nancial or non-ﬁ nancial disputes arising between a member, a worker of the Soc iety or other Societies and 
a contracted person or other party. Such Oﬃ  cer or Board appointed shall be a public servant deﬁ ned in the Penal Code. He 
or the Board shall have the powers vested accordingly. The verd ict given on the investigation should be accepted by both 
parties and if any party is dissatisﬁ ed, they can appeal to the Director of the National Elders Sec retariat with an appeal fee 
set by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat. The decision given by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat 
for that appeal will be the ﬁ nal decision. 
Liquidation
The Society can be liquidized if a situation arises that the So ciety cannot be activated continuously or on the adoption of 
suggestions done by the General Assembly  based on the decisions of the committee on accounts reports, special inspection 
reports, investigation reports etc. This liquidation is a responsible of the Director of the Nati onal Elders Secretariat and 
the Director of the National Elders Secretariat should investig ate whether the Society can be re-organized and upheld 
continuously before liquidation. The Director of National Elders Secretariat should appoint a person or a Board whose name 
appears in a register of Liquidators maintained by The Director  of National Elders Secretariat to liquidize these Societies. 
This Liquidator shall act to sell assets or convert them into c ash using assets, liabilities, account balances,  following 
the formal procedure in relation with properties and following procurement procedures and after incurring the liquidation 
expenses from the proceeds and respectively settling the balanc es of Government or Bank loans, settling the member’s 
deposits and If there are additional expenses to be paid, settl ing those also and  it should be handed over to the Director 
of National Elders Secretariat to publish the completion of liq uidation through newspapers and gazette notices. If there is 
remaining amount of money in the liquidation, it should be credited to the account held in the name of the Director, National 
Elders Secretariat.
These rules have been adopted by …………. votes in favour /unanimously in the General Assembly held with participation 
of…………members out of ……….. total members on……….of…………………. 20…..
 ...................................... ....................... ...........
 President Secretary
Date..............................
These rules were registered by the Director or Authorized Oﬃ   cer at …………………………………oﬃ  ce on ……
of…………………20……
 .................................
 Director
National Elders Secretariat                                                                
Divisional Secretary/ Authorized Oﬃ  cer
On the date of ............................. 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 13A
Rules for Regional Elders Organizations, prepared in accordance with Sub-section (g) 
in Section 14 of Act No. 09 of 2000, amended by Act No, 05 of 2011
National Secretariats for Elders'
Registration number :
Registration date  :
      
Name :- Name of this Regional Elders Organization is cited as ………………………………………………………………
1. It shall be referred as the Regional Elders Organization in Constitutions and all the written declarations hereinafter.
2. The address ………………………………………………………. shall be the address of the Secretary of the Regional 
Elders Organization or the other place, decided by the General Assembly.  Changing the address is not a changing the 
rules and such a change shall be informed to Divisional Secreta ry / Director of National Elders Secretariat/ relevant 
parties in connection with member organizations and Boards  within 7 days. 
3. Divisional Secretariat  :-
4. District :-
5. Date of inception :-
6. Goal of the Organization : 
Enhancement the living standards of the elders of the member organizations and guiding and directing to make them satisﬁ ed 
senior citizens directly or otherwise, contributing to accompli sh social, economic and cultural necessities of the  member 
organizations activate in the Divisional Secretariat area, in a ccordance with Protection of the rights of the Elders Act and 
other legal provisions issued from time to time and in accordance with the rules and regulations made thereunder. 
7. Powers and Functions of the Regional Elders Organization :
i. Working for the promotion of mental, health, spiritual, economi c, physical welfare of the elders living in 
relevant Divisional Secretariat area by protecting their freedom, independence, care, dignity and self-esteem. 
ii. Directing member organizations to building the good morals and well-being of the society    by identifying 
and implementing welfare programs through a Participatory Devel opment Approach for elders live in the 
Divisional Secretariat  area and children, youth and disabled communities, responsible for them. 
iii. Development the economic status of the elders through identifyi ng income generating projects and 
implementing those projects in coordinating with relevant persons and Institutes.
iv. Identifying the innate skills of adults and developing and appreciating those skills.
v. Identifying economically and socially disadvantaged elders and empowering them and providing them 
welfare services.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 14A
vi. Introducing strategies and provide guidance in legal, health, m ental assisting to avoid various problematic 
situations faced by the elders generally.
vii. Directing elders to their social, economic, spiritual and cultu ral development, organizing, empowering and 
contributing to implement, providing leadership for various wel fare projects granted under government 
and non-government organizations, Contributing to establish a h umanistic social environment within its 
area through coordinating by gathering elders, who need service s and live in rural and urban areas using 
Participatory Development Approach.
viii. Identifying resource persons in the area, availing their services and evaluating them.
ix. Identifying income generation programs of low income elderly pe rsons live in the area and implementation 
those programs coordinating with rural organizations.
x. Conducting health clinics, counseling, entertainment, religious and cultivation projects and programs. 
xi. Assisting to solve the common problems and issues faced by the elders living in the area of the rural 
organization at rural level.
xii. Sharing the knowledge and experience of senior citizens who has expert knowledge
8. ………………….. Divisional Secretariat area of ………………….District shall be the domain of this organization. 
9. Membership of the Regional Elders Organization
Rural member organization at the time of registration the Regio nal Elders Organization under these rules and all 
the members who get membership after the registration of the Re gional Elders Organization, shall have following 
qualiﬁ cations
 Should be a Rural Elders Organization established in the area
 Should be an organization willing to comply all the provisions mentioned in these rules. 
Enrolment 
 Sign the pioneer member to the application to register 
 Complete and submit a data report and application comprising its information and get approval of the General 
Assembly and the Committee.
i. Member Register :
A register of the members of the Regional Elders Organization s hall be maintained in accordance with the schedule 
format. ( It shall be in the custody of the secretary of the Regional Elders Organization and the detail of member’s name, 
addresses, registration number and number of the members of organizations) 
ii. Duties, Responsibilities and Rights of the members :
After getting approval the membership by General Assembly, the President, Secretary, Treasurer of the Organization 
or a person authorized by the Organization formally is entitle to the rights of the Organization.  Franchise entitled as 
a member’s right shall be used by the organization and any repr esentative of the member organizations have duties, 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 15A
responsibilities and rights on to be elected to any post of the Regional Elders Organization, to propose or ratify proposals 
for a member for that, to bring a motion of no conﬁ dence against it or vote for such a no conﬁ dence,  if the oﬃ  ce holders 
abuse their powers and violate these rules, to act transparently in connection with the transactions of the Society, to have 
beneﬁ ts, to be partners in all the activities indicated in the rules, if contributing to ﬁ nancial aﬀ airs such as deposits and 
loans.  
Termination of membership
Resignation after  the formal approval of Divisional Secretary / Director on a 2/3 majority decision in the General 
Assembly
Abolition the membership on the decisions of General Assembly due to violation of rules
Abolition of membership due to judicial procedure
Taking a legal decision due to any dispute with the organization conﬁ rming that dispute
In termination the membership on any other reason except the na tural causes or resignation from the above reasons, the 
Secretary of the organization should inform it to relevant memb er before a month after making a committee decision 
considering the facts to be caused  for that and the member org anization will have the opportunity to convince facts to 
General assembly. The General assembly has the power to take a ﬁ nal decision after considering those matters. However, 
such a member organization can submit an appeal to the Director / Divisional Secretary regarding the decision of the General 
Assembly and he can take a ﬁ nal decision after conducting an investigation by a special independent committee.
General Assembly
Meetings of General Assembly
General Assembly meetings of the Regional Elders Organization c an be held once in three months. Apart from that, the 
Special General Assembly Meetings can be held on behalf of its membership as per the rules or on behalf of  the persistence 
of the regional Elders Organization on the decision of the committee. Except from that, Director of National Secretariat for 
Elders/ Divisional Secretary can call a General Assembly meetin g by a written notice made by himself or a representative 
authorized by him within 7 of working days and presence of 1/3 of members is considered as the quorum for those meetings. 
 General Assembly shall be called by the Secretary of the Regio nal Elders Organization. Calling of meetings shall be made 
on a standard communication method or on the communication method prescribed by the committee and the committee shall 
satisfy whether the members have been duly informed.
 Minutes of the General Assembly shall be taken in the same ins tance by Secretary of the Regional Elders Organization 
and when he/she is absent, it shall be done by a person, who were authorized by the committee.
 The chair of the General Assembly shall be held by the Preside nt of the Regional Elders Organization, in his absence the 
Vice-President and in the absence of both of them, an oﬃ  cer belonging to the Committee may be temporarily appointed 
as the President based on the proposal adopted by the General A ssembly. But his presidency shall be eﬀ  ective only for 
that meeting. The chair of a meeting, called by Director of Nat ional Elders Secretariat/ Divisional Secretary or authorized 
representative, shall be held by the authorized persons.
Powers and Functions
General Assembly shall be held on the Agenda, passed by the com mittee and communicated to the members. However, if 
non-ﬁ nancial proposals are presented by the General Assembly, it can be considered during the meeting of General Assembly. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 16A
Further, all the functions, enforced by these rules can be implemented in the General Assembly meeting. General Assembly 
of the Regional Elders Organization can decide the actions such  as to grant new memberships, suspension or cancellation 
of the membership on formal inquiry, to expulsion from membersh ip, to consider the committee recommendations related 
to annual budget estimates, development plans and projects and making relevant decisions, to consider about annual audit 
report, to appoint the oﬃ  cers as per the rules, to make decisions to buy or sell and r ent or lease the assets, and making 
decisions on no-faith incidents.
Composition and operation of the General Assembly
The general assembly of the Regional Elders Organization consists of the founding member organizations and the members 
approved after the ﬁ rst general assembly. As well, if the membership has been acqu ired, it can be represented the Annual 
General Meeting on the active contribution (participation and ﬁ  nancial contribution) for the well-being of its members in 
accordance with these rules, and the relevant documents shall b e submitted to the Committee by the Secretary. However, 
if any inactive member organization  restores its membership  in active participation after paying  03 months’ arrears of its 
contribution, they shall be called for General Assembly after that. 
 
Quorum
Quorum of the General Assembly shall be consisted in whichever is less from 2/3 or 25 from number of the members.
1. Honorary President  - 
A member of the organization may be appointed as the President by a suggestion adopted in the General Assembly 
or a nominated Government Oﬃ  cer may temporarily hold the post on a decision taken by the Director of the 
National Elders Secretariat /Divisional Secretary after considering a certain enquiry. He/she is the Chief Executive 
of the Organization.
2. Honorary vice-President  
There is a vice-president to act in the absence of the presiden t of the organization. He should be appointed in the 
Committee of the Regional Elders Organization. In the occasions  that the President of the Organization has gone 
abroad, has taken leave due to illness, has taken special leave  requesting the committee in the occasion that he is 
unable to perform the duties of his position, he should perform the duties of the post of President.
3. Honorary Secretary 
 A member appointed by the General Assembly shall be the Secretary of the Regional Elders Organization. He /She 
should perform the duties of calling and reporting the meetings , functioning regarding the correspondence of the 
organization on the orders of the President, carrying out prescribed activities  on the orders of the Protection of the 
Rights of Elders Act, these rules and  the Committee.
4. Honorary Vice-Secretary  
There is a Vice-Secretary to act in the absence of the Secretar y of the Regional Elders Organization. He should 
be appointed in the Committee of the Regional Elders Organizati on. In the occasions that the Secretary of the 
Regional Elders Organization has gone abroad, has taken leave d ue to illness, has taken special leave requesting 
the committee in the occasion that he is unable to perform the duties of his position, he should perform the duties 
of the post of Secretary. 
5. Honorary Treasurer
The Treasurer appointed in the General Assembly shall be act re garding the ﬁ nance of the Regional Elders  
Organization as per the constitution.. He shall perform the dut ies on submission the detail of transactions of the 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 17A
organization to the Committee and General Assembly and Director  or Authorized Oﬃ  cer or Auditors, ﬁ nancial 
administration aﬀ airs, Bank accounts aﬀ airs and maintaining and protecting all the accounts books and performing 
all types of legal activities eﬀ ecting to this Organization. 
When any complaint or allegation is submitted regarding the oﬃ  cers holding positions from above 01 to 05, the Director of 
National Elders Secretariat has the power to temporarily suspend that post and to run the Organization nominating a suitable 
government oﬃ  cer for that post after conducting an investigation in this regard.
The Committee :- 
A Committee composed 09 members including the above oﬃ  ces or members taken as one committee member for 5 Rural 
Elders Organizations but made up of odd numbers shall be elected by General Assembly for the Regional Elders Organization 
in accordance with the rules. It shall be appointed in a General Assembly meeting of the Regional Elders Organization. The 
Committee thus appointed shall be eﬀ ective for two years from the date of appointment. One person can be appointed for the 
positions mentioned therein only four times and that condition is not applicable to be appointed to the committee.
Qualiﬁ cations for the Committee
The members to be appointed for the Committee shall have following qualiﬁ cations
1. Shall be an active member Organization in the Regional Elders Organization
2. Shall not be an Organization that had any dispute with the Regional Elders Organization
3. Shall not be an Organization’s Representative who has defaulted  of payment to be paid for Regional Elders 
Organization
4. Shall have a good health condition
5. Shall not be a Organization that has faced for no faith situation or be a person who has not been removed from his 
post in last 5 years
Powers and functions of the Committee 
1. To prepare estimates and annual plans of the organization and submit them for the approval of the General Assembly
2. To organize and maintain various projects, activities and other things leading to the welfare of the elders
3. To collect, protect and disburse  money in productive investments.
4. Accounting and decision making considering the monthly and annual budget.
5. To submit reports, observations and recommendations to be submitted to the General Assembly in accordance with 
this constitution and to carry out other legal activities.
6. To study audit reports, reports of special inspections and investigations and decision making.
Forfeit of Committee membership
Committee membership shall be forfeited on the one or more of the following reasons.
1. Expiry of the term of oﬃ  ce
2. Forfeit the Membership 
3. Being committed to no-faith
4. Removal
On the disqualiﬁ cation of a person who are bearing the membership of a Provinc ial Elders Organization and appointed 
representing District Elders Organization, There should be no p rejudice to the membership of the said organization or the 
membership of committee of that organization.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 18A
Anniversary Meetings of General Assembly 
Anniversary General Assembly Meetings of the organization shall be conducted annually. That Anniversary General Assembly 
should be held within 03 months of the end of the ﬁ nancial year. In this meeting, annual progress of the organization, Audit 
report of the Organization, Action plan of next year and the Budget shall be presented.     
In addition, If there are special proposals presented by the members, it should be considered at this annual meeting.
Capital
Member fees
Every member organization of the Regional Organization shall pay Rs. 250/- annually as the membership fee. 
State Donations 
This refers the loans, aids and donations given by the governme nt or by the provincial council or by the local government 
bodies in relation to the welfare of the elders or related to the matters compiled in these rules.
Deposits
There shall be a deposit fund on the deposits received by the R egional Elders Organization.  In that fund compulsory 
deposits, normal deposits and ﬁ xed deposits can be made from members and the rate of interest  decided by the committee 
shall be paid annually. 
External borrowings
Loans can be obtained from the Government, the Provincial Council, the Local Government bodies or the Banks, Corporations, 
Boards and any other Institutions for the ﬁ nancial needs of the Regional Elders Organization and a formal procedure should 
be followed in obtaining these loans. In obtaining these loans and deposits, there shall be a General Assembly approved limit 
for external loans and loans and deposits can be obtained subje ct to that limit. Decision making power on these loans and 
deposits is belonged to the Regional Elders Organization.
Net Proﬁ t
40% of the residual proﬁ t shown in the annual audit conducted by the Regional Elders O rganization shall be added to the 
working capital of the Regional Elders Organization as a safety reserve on the decisions of General Assembly. 
Income earned by other ways 
This refers the ﬁ nance generating programs, income generating projects and contracts, businesses and money generated by 
building various funds to continue activities of the Regional Elders Organization on the base of its functions.
Financial year
The ﬁ nancial year of the organization shall be from 01st of February of each year to 28th 0r 29th of February of the following 
year. 
Handling money 
The money received by the Regional Elders Organization under th e above Articles shall be the common funds of the 
organization. Thus it consists membership funds and various government and non-government funds as well, It is subject to 
the provisions of the Public Property Act, No. 12 of 1982. All the money handling and Bank accounts handling aﬀ airs of the 
Regional Elders Organization should be done by the Treasurer as per the orders of the President. However, signature sheets 
of the clients of Regional Elders Organization must be approved  by Director / Divisional Secretary and it will be possible 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 19A
to recruit employees for this purpose on the prior approval of the Director when the deals of Regional Elders Organization 
is wider.
In the case of monetary transactions, the Regional Elders Organ ization shall maintain the transactions through a current 
account or a savings account of a Bank approved by the Divisional Secretary/Director, and Treasurer of the Regional Elders 
Organization should deposit money in the current account when t he balance in his hand exceeds  Rs.5,000/- and when the 
balance of current account exceeds  Rs.50,000/- he should inves t extra cash available in addition to ﬁ nancial requirements 
of the Regional Elders Organization, in the ﬁ xed deposits.
All the receipts and payments of the Regional Elders Organizati on should be made on receipts and vouchers and those 
should be recorded daily in the cash book as receipts and payme nts. All the personal accounts shown in the cash book 
should be recorded in the personal ledgers, and the creditor’s and debtor’s accounts should be recorded in the creditor’s and 
debtor’s ledgers. The Treasurer shall submit monthly ﬁ nancial report to the Regional Elders Organization. Small amounts of 
daily  expenses of the Regional Elders Organization shall be ma intained on a petty cash imprest method and  expenditures 
made in petty cash should be in a maximum of Rs. 1000/- and petty cash imprest shall be Rs. 5,000/-. A separate cash book 
should be maintained for petty cash and petty cash should be se ttled and balanced the account at the end of every month. 
All other expenses except expenses of the Regional Elders Organ ization incurred in petty cash shall be made through 
vouchers. However, an advance may be granted for a certain matt er and that advance shall be issued only to a member of 
the Committee or to a member who have bond with the agreement in connection with that matter. He shall make actions to 
settle the advance within a week of completion of the respective work.
Residual money
The residual amount of money shall be determined after the annual audit of the Regional Elders Organization. 50% from the 
residual amount shall be added to the working capital of the organization as a safety reserve and 10% contribution fee shall 
be paid for the contribution of Regional Organization Fund. The rest of money can be disbursed to :
1. Buy assets
2. Welfare aﬀ airs
3. Donations and special events identiﬁ ed by committees
4. Cultural, social and common welfare activities
5. Other expenses approved by the Committee and General Assembly
Welfare 
There is a Common Welfare Fund for the Regional Elders Organization. Welfare activities of  Regional Elders Organization 
shall be carried out for members, for children of members and c hildren with disabilities and as common welfare activities 
for non-members. 
Welfare funds
Welfare fund shall be maintained in the custody of the Treasurer of the Regional Elders Organization. The expenses incurred 
by those funds shall be approved expenses by the Committee or t he General Assembly.  However, due to an emergency 
matter, expenses up to Rs. 10,000/= can be incurred on the orders of the President of the Regional Elders Organization, and 
an amount not exceeding Rs. 25,000/= can be incurred on the approval of the committee.  
1. Monthly contribution fees of its members
2. Allocations assigned as per this constitution after conducting the Audit. 
3. Contributions to this fund by the surplus generated from various projects of the Regional Elders Organization.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 20A
4. Miscellaneous donations 
5. Dividend revenue or interest revenue received for welfare fund 
When incurring expenses from this fund, necessities or the prio rity should be identiﬁ ed by the committee.  The welfare of 
the members shall be the priority of the activities of this fund. In addition, committee can decide the contributions for above 
mentioned activities from welfare fund. 
Welfare expenses should not be made based on any other purpose but only related to welfare.
Additional Contributions to welfare fund
50% from surplus amount arisen after the annual audit of the Regional Elders Organization shall be added to this fund. This 
allocations of contribution  shall be credited to the welfare f und from working capital of the Regional Elders Organization 
after presenting the audit report in General Assembly. 
Donations
Donations to this fund can be received from members, non-member s, state, provincial councils, local councils and various 
corporations, boards, institutions and organizations. It can be  granted as ﬁ  nancial and material with values. Financial 
donations shall be incurred for the matters proposed by those donors in compliance with these rules. 
Donations mentioned by above sentence can be spent for following matters.  
1. Financial expenses
2. Material expenses
3. Expenses through miscellaneous constructions
4. Expenses on illnesses or disorders
5. Expenditure on hygiene and health facilities  
6. Expenditure on religious, cultural and common social welfare
7. Other expenses recommended by the Government, Provincial Council or Local Government or Divisional Secretary 
in compliance with these rules 
Loan relief aﬀ airs 
On an amount not exceeding 2/3 from working capital of the Regi onal Elders Organization  and using deposits, aids and 
loans obtained from the Bank on outside loan limits of the Regional Elders Organization, every member can be granted loans 
on subsidized interests. For the loans provided ﬁ nancing from external Institutions, terms and conditions of those Institutions 
shall be apply additionally. The Committee shall determine the interest rates on loans from time to time. Interest rates shall 
not exceed 4% from the rates paid for deposits.
Interests
Maximum amount of the membership loans shall be determined by t he committee of the Regional Elders Organization 
subject to covering approval of the General Assembly based on the ﬁ nancial information of each member organization and 
loans shall not be provided exceeding those limits. All the decisions should be made on the committee orders.
Guarantees 
Loans can be granted in the maximum limits adopted by the Gener al Assembly on the base of economic feasibility of the 
member organization. However loans can be granted based on the feasibility of any project that is being run. In addition, 
special loan facilities can be granted. on the ﬁ  nancial needs of any rural member organization, a loan can be granted by 
keeping the property owned by that rural organization as collat eral, up to amount of 2/3 of the assessed value of the said 
property subject to a maximum limit of 05 lakhs.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 21A
Functions of the Director of the National Elders Secretariat/Authority
The full authority of establishment / registration of this Regi onal Elders Organization is belonged to Director of National 
Elders Secretariat. The Director can delegate his powers to Additional, Deputy and Assistant Directors. In the ﬁ eld, the power 
of registration of Regional Elders Organizations under the Dire ctor of National Elders Secretariat is vested to Divisional 
Secretary. When registration of the organizations on such power s, a one copy of registration should be forwarded to the 
Director of National Elders Secretariat. The Director of the National Elders Secretariat should act as to protect rights of the 
members in the registration of these Regional Elders Organizati ons and he may act on taking legal actions for continuity  
of the functioning of the Regional Elders Organizations, monito ring the ﬁ nancial activities of the organizations, decision 
making on Regional Elders Organizations and members and various  disputes, reorganize the organizations on the collapse 
of possibilities of the organizations to reestablishment it as to protect rights of the senior citizens or liquidate and disso lve 
when it is diﬃ  cult to re-organize.
In addition, conducting special investigations in connection with allegations against the main oﬃ  ce holders of the committee 
and suspending he/them from their posts  and appointing suitable qualiﬁ ed government oﬃ  cials for that. Providing a decision 
in the case of a Rural Elders Organization requests to withdraw from the Regional Elders Organization and conducting a special 
investigation in connection with any general allegation against a member of the Rural Elders Organization and suspending 
his/her membership temporarily/permanently. The Director of the  National Elders Secretariat or an oﬃ  cer authorized by 
him will have the power to audit the accounts of the organizati on and investigate the functioning and eﬀ ectiveness of the 
organization whenever deemed necessary.
Decision making 
All the decision makings of the Regional Elders Organization sh ould be done by the General Assembly on the 
recommendations of the Committee. However, The Committee has th e power to take decisions on urgent matters and the 
President has the power to take decisions within the limits pre scribed by the General Assembly to avoid prejudices arisen 
due to not taking some decision. But those decisions shall be s ubmitted to the Committee and the General assembly to get 
approval subsequently. When the organization cannot take a deci sion on certain matter, the Director of National Elders 
Secretariat / Divisional Secretary or his Oﬃ  cer has the power to be further considered on that. If the Ge neral Assembly / 
Committee hesitates to take that decision on the intervention of the Director, the Director of National Elders Secretariat can 
take a decision considering the harm that can be arisen on not taking that decision. That decision will be the ﬁ nal decision.   
Intervention of the Government Oﬃ  cers
The Regional Elders Organization has the power of taking all th e necessary decisions on administration aﬀ  airs of the 
Regional Elders Organization. However, if those decisions lead to any disputes or an issue related to a ﬁ  nancial matter, 
Divisional Secretary or his authorized representative has the power to intervene on that matter. In addition, when a problem 
arises regarding the establishment and functioning of the Regio nal Elders Organization, the Director of National Elders 
Secretariat can take a decision after investigation and Director’s decision will be the ﬁ nal decision. 
Audits
1. Audit Committees
An Internal Audit Committee consisted by three persons with ability of inquiring on accounts, ﬁ nancial status and functioning 
of the organization shall be activated. The committee shall be appointed by the General Assembly of the Regional Elders 
Organization. This committee should check the monthly summaries  and balance sheets on receipts and payments of the 
Regional Elders Organization and submit a report to the committee in next month. In addition, loan deposit investments and 
projects carried out by the Regional Elders Organization should be scrutinized by this committee. 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 22A
1. External Audit 
Annual audit of the Regional Elders Organization can be conducted by a person, whose name is in a list of the audit oﬃ  cers 
maintained by Director of the National Elders Secretariat / Div isional Secretary. This Audit shall be completed within 03 
months after the end of ﬁ nancial year and the Audit Report shall be submitted to the Ge neral Assembly. The audit should 
consist of a balance sheet that reﬂ ects actual status of the assets and liabilities of the Region al Elders Organization and the 
Auditor or a Recognized Accounting Oﬃ  cer should certify that whether the activities done by Regional Elders Organization 
within the period of auditing are in compliance with these rule s and legal provisions regarding the rights of elders. In this 
audit, the Auditor has powers entitled to General Auditor and the Regional Elders Organization shall disburse the expenses 
of audit as prescribe by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat / Divisional Secretary. 
Special Inspections and Investigations
The Director or a person authorized by him can conduct an inspection or an investigation on establishment, functioning and 
ﬁ nancial status of the Regional Elders Organization in relation to a certain function or a certain deﬁ nite time. The authorized 
person has powers on investigation of documents and properties,  obtaining written statements, obtaining various reports 
and data and after the submission the relevant report to the Di rector of National Elders Secretariat, he can take actions to 
explaining the faults and mistakes to the Regional Elders Organ ization, taking explanations for not dismissing them from 
their posts, forwarding these information to General Assembly, conferring the authority to General Assembly to be taken 
actions for those oﬃ  cers, respectively and  if the General Assembly  does not tak e actions on that, he can remove the said 
committee within 2 weeks and appoint a Board consisted 03 persons to run the organization.
 
General Seal
The Regional Elders Organization should have a general seal containing the name of the organization, registration number, 
date and address and that seal should be in the custody of the Secretary of the Regional Elders Organization. On the every 
legal document signed by the organization should be put the sea l after signing the President or vice-president, secretary or 
vice-secretary.  
Agreements
The Regional Elders Organization can enter into agreements with its member organizations, other registered Regional Elders 
Organizations or external institutes and persons, Government institutes and Boards for its business aﬀ airs. Those agreements 
must comply with the Law of Contract and when the organization signs as a one party, President / Secretary shall sign. In 
the absence of President / Secretary the authority can be conferred to vice-president / vice-Secretary.  The parties may take 
judicial action based on the provisions of the Law of Contract in relation to any prejudice or loss caused to any party due 
to the violation of these agreements. 
Amendment of the rules
1. If a necessity arises to be amended these rules, that amendment  can be considered and approved by the General 
Assembly on submission that amended rule in writing or if there  is a fact identiﬁ ed by the committee, submission 
it to general assembly with the committee decision.   
2. In case of the Director of National Elders Secretariat refers s ome amendment with prior approval, a decision 
should be taken by submission that amendment to the General Ass embly. The amendments recommended by the 
committee, can be passed on 2/3 majority vote in a general asse mbly with quorum and those amendments should 
be submitted to the Director of National Elders Secretariat to get his approval.  Those amendments can be activated 
after receiving the approval of the Director of National Elders Secretariat in writing. 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 23A
Disputes
The Director of the Elders Secretariat has the authority to appoint one or a Board consisting three persons whose names 
are mentioned in a list, maintained by the Director of National Elders Secretariat named as Arbitrators to investigate the 
disputes to investigate ﬁ nancial or non-ﬁ nancial disputes arising between a member, a worker of the Reg ional Elders 
Organizations or other Regional Elders Organizations and a cont racted person or other party. Such Oﬃ  cer or Board 
appointed shall be a public servant deﬁ ned in the Penal Code. He or the Board shall have the powers vested accordingly. 
The verdict given on the investigation should be accepted by both parties and if any party is dissatisﬁ ed, they can appeal 
to the Director of the National Elders Secretariat with an appeal fee set by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat. 
The decision given by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat for that appeal will be the ﬁ nal decision. 
Liquidation
The Regional Elders Organization can be liquidized if a situati on arises that the Regional Elders Organization cannot be 
activated continuously or on the adoption of suggestions done b y the General Assembly  based on the decisions of the 
committee on accounts reports, special inspection reports, inve stigation reports etc. This liquidation is a responsible of the  
Director of the National Elders Secretariat and the Director of  the National Elders Secretariat should investigate whether 
the Regional Elders Organization can be re-organized and upheld continuously before liquidation. The Director of National 
Elders Secretariat should appoint a person or a Board whose nam e appears in a register of liquidators  maintained by The 
Director of National Elders Secretariat to liquidize this Regional Elders Organization. This Liquidator shall act to sell assets 
or convert them into cash using assets, liabilities, account balances of the Regional Elders Organizations following the formal 
procedure in relation with properties and following procurement  procedures and after incurring the liquidation expenses 
from the proceeds and respectively settling the balances of Government or Bank loans, settling the member’s deposits and If 
there are additional expenses to be paid, settling those also and  it should be handed over to the Director of National Elders 
Secretariat to publish the completion of liquidation of the Reg ional Elders Organizations through newspapers and gazette 
notices. If there is remaining amount of money in the liquidati on, it should be credited to the National Fund for Elders of 
the  National Elders Secretariat.
These rules have been adopted by …………. votes in favor /unanimou sly in the General Assembly held with participation 
of…………members out of ……….. total members of the Regional Elders Organization on……….of………………. 20…..
 ...................................... ....................... ...........
 President Secretary
Date..............................
These rules were registered by the Director or Authorized Oﬃ   cer at …………………………………oﬃ  ce on ……
of…………………20……
 .................................
 Director
National Elders Secretariat    
Divisional Secretary/ Authorized Oﬃ  cer                                                          
On the date of ............................. 

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 24A
Rules for District Elders Organizations, prepared in accordance with Sub-section (g) in Section 14 of 
Act, No. 09 of 2000, amended by Act, No. 05 of 2011
National Secretariats for Elders'
Registration number :
Registration date :
     
  Name :- Name of this District Elders Organization is cited as  …………………………………………………………........
1. It shall be referred as the District Elders Organization in Constitutions and all the written declarations hereinafter.
2. The address ………………………………………………………. shall be the address of t he Secretary of the 
District Elders Organization or the other place, decided by the General Assembly.  
3. Changing the address is not a changing the rules and such a change shall be informed to District Secretary / Director 
of National Elders Secretariat/ relevant parties in connection with member organizations and Boards  within 7 days.
4. District :-
5. Date of inception :-
6. Goal of the District Elders Organization : 
Enhancement the living standards of the elders of the member organizations and guiding and directing to make them 
satisﬁ ed senior citizens directly or otherwise, contributing to acco mplish social, economic and cultural necessities 
of the  member organizations activate in the District Secretariat area, in accordance with Protection of the Rights of 
the Elders Act and other legal provisions issued from time to time and in accordance with the rules and regulations 
made thereunder. 
7. Powers of the District Elders Organization :
I. Working for the promotion of mental, health, spiritual, economic, physical welfare of the elders living in 
relevant District Secretariat area by protecting their freedom, independence, care, dignity and self-esteem. 
II. Directing member organizations to building the good morals and well-being of the society   by identifying 
and implementing welfare programs through a Participatory Development Approach for elders live in the 
District Secretariat  area and children, youth and disabled communities, responsible for them.
III. Development the economic status of the elders through identifyi ng income generating projects and 
implementing those projects in coordinating with relevant persons and Institutes.
IV. Identifying the innate skills of adults and developing and appreciating those skills.
V. Identifying economically and socially disadvantaged elders and empowering them and providing them 
welfare services.
VI. Introducing strategies and provide guidance in legal, health, mental assisting to avoid various problematic 
situations faced by the elders  generally.
VII. Directing elders to their social, economic, spiritual and cultural development, organizing, empowering and 
contributing to implement, providing leadership for various wel fare projects granted under government 
and non-government organizations, Contributing to establish a h umanistic social environment within its 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 25A
area through coordinating by gathering elders, who need service s and live in rural and urban areas using 
Participatory Development Approach.
VIII. Identifying resource persons in the area, availing their services and evaluating them.
IX. Identifying income generation programmes of low income elderly persons live in the area and 
implementation of those programmes coordinating with Regional Elders Organizations.
X. Conducting health clinics, counseling, entertainment, religious and cultivation projects and programmes. 
XI. XI. Assisting to solve the common problems and issues faced by the elders living in the area at regional 
level.
XII. Sharing the knowledge and experience of senior citizens who has expert knowledge.
8. ………………….. District Secretariat area of ………………….Province shal l be the domain of this organization. 
9. Membership of the District Elders Organization :
Members of the organization at the time of registration the Dis trict Elders Organization under these rules and 
the members who get membership after the registration of the Di strict Elders Organization, shall have following 
qualiﬁ cations.
i. Qualiﬁ cations :
 Should be a District Elders Organization established in the area.
 Should be an Organization willing to comply all the provisions mentioned in these rules. 
 Should be  an Organization agreeing to submit a data report or income report for membership or any other 
information.
 Should be agreed to act as an active member by paying ﬁ  nancial contribution annually in accordance with 
these rules.
ii. Enrolment :
 Sign the pioneer member to the application to register.
 Complete and submit a data report and application comprising its information and get approval of the General 
Assembly and the Committee.
iii. Member Register :
A register of the members of the District Elders Organization s hall be maintained.  (It shall be in the custody of the 
secretary of the District Elders Organization and the detail of member’s name, address, registration number and number 
of the members of organizations) 
iv. Duties, Responsibilities and Rights of the members :
After getting approval the membership by General Assembly, the President, Secretary, Treasurer of the District 
Organization or a person authorized by the Organization formally is entitle to the rights of the Organization.  Franchise 
entitled as a member’s right shall be used by the Organization and any representative of the member organizations have 
duties, responsibilities and rights on to be elected to any pos t of the District Elders Organization, to propose or ratify 
proposals for a member for that, to bring a motion of no conﬁ  dence against the oﬃ  ce holders,  if the oﬃ  ce holders 
abuse their powers and violate these rules or vote for such a n o conﬁ dence, to act transparently in connection with the 
transactions of the District Elders Organization, to have beneﬁ ts if contributing to ﬁ nancial aﬀ airs such as deposits and 
loans, to be partners in all the activities indicated in the rules,.  

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 26A
Termination of the membership
Resignation after  the formal approval of District Secretary / Director on a 2/3 majority decision in the General 
Assembly of the District Elders Organization
Abolition of the membership on the decisions of General Assembly due to violation of rules
Abolition of membership due to judicial procedure
Taking a legal decision due to any dispute with the organization conﬁ rming that dispute
In termination of the membership on any other reason except the  natural causes or resignation by the above reasons, the 
Secretary of the District Elders Organization should inform it to relevant member before a month after making a committee 
decision considering the facts to be caused  for that and the m ember organization will have the opportunity to convince 
facts to General Assembly and the General Assembly has the power to take a ﬁ nal decision on those facts. However, such a 
member organization can submit an appeal to the District Secret ary / Director of National Elders Secretariat regarding the 
decision of the General Assembly and his decision will be the ﬁ nal decision.
General Assembly
Meetings of General Assembly
General Assembly meetings of the District Elders Organization c an be held once in three months. Apart from that, the 
Special General Assembly Meetings can be held on behalf of its membership as per the rules or on behalf of  the persistence 
of the District Elders Organization on the decision of the comm ittee. Except from that, Director of National Secretariat for 
Elders/ Divisional Secretary can call a General Assembly meetin g by a written notice made by himself or a representative 
authorized by him within 7 of working days and presence of 1/3 of members is considered as the quorum for those meetings. 
General Assembly shall be called by the Secretary of the District Elders Organization. Calling of meetings shall be made on 
a standard communication method or on the communication method prescribed by the committee and the committee shall 
satisfy whether the members have been duly informed.
Minutes of the General Assembly shall be taken in the same inst ance by Secretary of the District Elders Organization and 
when he/she is absent, it shall be done by a person, who were authorized by the committee.
The chair of the General Assembly shall be held by the Presiden t of the District Elders Organization, in his absence the 
Vice-President and in the absence of both of them, an oﬃ  cer belonging to the Committee may be temporarily appointed 
as the President based on the proposal adopted by the General A ssembly. But his presidency shall be eﬀ  ective only for 
that meeting. The chair of a meeting, called by Director of Nat ional Elders Secretariat/ Divisional Secretary or authorized 
representative, shall be held by him. 
Powers and Functions
General Assembly shall be held on the Agenda, passed by the com mittee and communicated to the members. However, if 
non-ﬁ nancial proposals are presented by the General Assembly, it can be considered during the meeting of General Assembly. 
Further, all the functions, enforced by these rules can be implemented in the General Assembly meeting. General Assembly 
of the District Elders Organization can decide the actions such  as to grant new memberships, suspension or cancellation 
of the membership on formal inquiry, to expulsion from membersh ip, to consider the committee recommendations related 
to annual budget estimates, development plans and projects and making relevant decisions, to consider about annual audit 
report, to appoint the oﬃ  cers as per the rules, to make decisions to buy or sell and r ent or lease the assets, and making 
decisions on no-faith incidents.
Composition and operation of the General Assembly
The General Assembly of the District Elders Organization consists of the founding member organizations and the members 
approved after the ﬁ rst General Assembly. As well, if the membership has been acquired, it can be represented the Annual 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 27A
General Meeting on the active contribution (participation and ﬁ  nancial contribution) for the well-being of its members in 
accordance with these rules, and the relevant documents shall b e submitted to the Committee by the Secretary. However, 
if any inactive member organization  restores its membership  i n active participation after paying 03 months’ arrears of its 
contribution, they shall be called for General Assembly.  
Quorum
Quorum of the General Assembly of the District Elders Organization shall be consisted in whichever is less from 1/3 or 25 
from number of the members. 
In the Annual General Assembly meeting on a ﬁ xed date, qualiﬁ ed members shall be appointed for following oﬃ  ces adopted 
by the consent of majority.  
1. Honorary President  
A representative of any member organization  of the District Elders Organization may be appointed as the President 
by a suggestion adopted in the General Assembly or a nominated Government Oﬃ  cer may temporarily hold the 
post on a decision taken by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat /Divisional Secretary after considering a 
certain enquiry. He/she is the Chief Executive of the Organization.
2. Honorary Vice-President  
There is a vice-president to act in the absence of the Presiden t of the District Elders Organization. He should 
be appointed in the Committee of the District Elders Organizati on. In the occasions that the President of the 
District  Elders Organization has gone abroad, has taken leave due to illness, has taken special leave requesting the 
committee in the occasion that he is unable to perform the duti es of his position, he should perform the duties of 
the post of President.
3. Honorary Secretary 
 A member appointed by the General Assembly shall be the Secretary of the District  Elders Organization. He /She 
should perform the duties of calling and reporting the meetings , functioning regarding the correspondence of the 
District Elders Organization on the orders of the President, ca rrying out prescribed activities  on the orders of the 
Protection of the Rights of Elders Act, these rules and  the Committee.
4. Honorary Vice-Secretary  
There is a Vice-Secretary to act in the absence of the Secretar y of the District Elders Organization. He should 
be appointed in the Committee of the District Elders Organizati on. In the occasions that the Secretary of the 
District Elders Organization has gone abroad, has taken leave due to illness, has taken special leave requesting the 
committee in the occasion that he is unable to perform the duti es of his position, he should perform the duties of 
the post of Secretary. 
5. Honorary Treasurer
The Treasurer appointed in the General Assembly shall be act in  regarding the ﬁ  nance of the District Elders  
Organization as per the Rules. He shall perform the duties on submission the detail of transactions of the organization 
to the Committee and General Assembly and Director or Authorize d Oﬃ  cer or Auditors, ﬁ nancial administration 
aﬀ airs, Bank accounts aﬀ airs and maintaining and protecting all the accounts books and  performing all types of 
legal activities eﬀ ecting to this Organization. 
When any complaint or allegation is submitted regarding the oﬃ  cers holding positions from above 01 to 05, the Director 
of National Elders Secretariat has the power to temporarily sus pend that post and to run the District Elders Organization 
nominating a suitable government oﬃ  cer for that post after conducting an investigation in this regard.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 28A
The Committee :- 
A Committee composed 09 members including the above oﬃ  ces or members taken as one committee member for 5 Regional 
Elders Organizations but made up of odd numbers shall be elected by General Assembly for the District Elders Organization 
in accordance with the rules. It shall be appointed in a Genera l Assembly meeting called for that purpose. The Committee 
thus appointed shall be eﬀ ective for two years from the date of appointment. One person can be appointed for the positions 
mentioned therein only four times and that condition is not applicable to be appointed to the committee.
Qualiﬁ cations for the Committee
The members to be appointed for the Committee shall have following qualiﬁ cations
1. Shall be an active Regional Member Organization in the District Elders Organization
2. Shall not be a Regional Member Organization that had any dispute with the District Elders Organization
3. Shall not be a representative of a Regional Elders Organization who has defaulted of payment to be paid to District 
Elders Organization
4. Shall have a good health condition
5. Shall not be a  Regional Elders Organization that has faced for  no faith situation or be a person who has not been 
removed from his post in last 5 years
Powers of the Committee 
1. To prepare estimates and annual plans of the District Elders Organization and submit them for the approval of the 
General Assembly
2. To organize and maintain various projects, activities and other things leading to the welfare of the elders
3. To collect, protect and disburse  money in productive investments.
4. Accounting and decision making considering the monthly and annual budget.
5. To submit reports, observations and recommendations to be submitted to the General Assembly in accordance with 
this constitution and to carry out other legal activities.
6. To study audit reports, special inspection and investigation reports and making decisions.
Forfeit of Committee Membership
Committee membership shall be forfeited on the one or more of the following reasons.
1. Expiry of the term of oﬃ  ce
2. Forfeit the Membership 
3. Being committed to no-faith
4. Removal
5. On the disqualiﬁ cation of a person who are bearing the membership of a Provinc ial Elders Organization and 
appointed representing District Elders Organization, there shou ld be no prejudice to the membership of the said 
organization or the membership of committee of that organization.
Anniversary Meetings of General Assembly 
Anniversary General Assembly Meetings of the organization shall be conducted annually. That Anniversary General Assembly 
should be held within 03 months of the end of the ﬁ nancial year. In this meeting, annual progress of the organization, Audit 
report of the Organization, Action plan of next year and the Budget shall be presented.     
In addition, If there are special proposals presented by the members, it should be considered at this annual meeting.
Capital
Member fees
Every member organization of the District Organization shall pay Rs. 6000/- annually as the membership fee. 

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 29A
State Donations 
This refers the loans, aids and donations given by the governme nt or by the provincial council or by the local government 
bodies in relation to the welfare of the elders or related to the matters compiled in these rules.
Deposits
There shall be a deposit fund on the deposits received by the District Elders Organization.  In that fund compulsory deposits, 
normal deposits and ﬁ xed deposits can be made from members and the rate of interest  decided by the committee  shall be 
paid annually. 
External Borrowings
Loans can be obtained from the Government, the Provincial Council, the Local Government bodies or the Banks, Corporations, 
Boards and any other Institutions for the ﬁ nancial needs of the District Elders Organization and a formal procedure should be 
followed in obtaining these loans. In obtaining these loans and  deposits, there shall be a General Assembly approved limit 
for external loans and loans and deposits can be obtained subje ct to that limit. Decision making power on these loans and 
deposits is belonged to the District Elders Organization.
Net Proﬁ t
40% of the residual proﬁ t shown in the annual audit conducted by the District Elders O rganization shall be added to the 
working capital of the District Elders Organization as a safety reserve on the decisions of General Assembly. 
Income earned by other ways 
This refers the ﬁ nance generating programmes, income generating projects and contracts, businesses and money generated 
by building various funds to continue activities of the District Elders Organization on the base of its functions.
When obtaining aids from various projects, especially in the case of contracts, it should be concerned to charge the relevant 
percentage in accordance with the instructions issued by the Treasury. 
Financial year
The ﬁ nancial year of the organization shall be from 01st of April of each year to 31st of March of the following year. 
Handling money 
The money received by the District Elders Organization under th e above Articles shall be the common funds of the 
organization. Thus it consists membership funds and various government and non-government funds as well, It is subject to 
the provisions of the Public Property Act No. 12 of 1982. All the money handling and Bank accounts handling aﬀ airs of the 
District Elders Organization should be done by the Treasurer as per the orders of the President. However, signature sheets of 
the clients of District Elders Organization must be approved by Director / District Secretary and it will be possible to recruit 
employees for this purpose on the prior approval of the Director when the deals of District Elders Organization is wider.
In the case of monetary transactions, the District Elders Organ ization shall maintain the transactions through a current 
account and a savings account of a Bank approved by the Directo r of National Elders Secretariat / District Secreatary and 
the Treasurer of the District Elders Organization should deposit money in the current account when the balance in his hand 
exceeds  Rs.5,000/- and when the balance of current account exc eeds  Rs.50,000/- he should invest extra cash available in 
addition to ﬁ nancial requirements of the District Elders Organization, in the ﬁ xed deposits.
All the receipts and payments of the District Elders Organization should be made on receipts and vouchers and those should 
be recorded daily in the cash book as receipts and payments. Al l the personal accounts shown in the cash book should be 
recorded in the personal ledgers, and the creditor’s and debtor ’s accounts should be recorded in the creditor’s and debtor’s 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 30A
ledgers. The Treasurer shall submit monthly ﬁ  nancial report to the District Elders Organization. Small amou nts of daily  
expenses of the District Elders Organization shall be maintaine d on a petty cash imprest method and  expenditures made 
in petty cash should be in a maximum of Rs.500/- and petty cash imprest shall be Rs. 5,000/-. A separate cash book should 
be maintained for petty cash and petty cash should be settled a nd balanced the account at the end of every month. All 
other expenses except expenses of the District Elders Organizat ion incurred in petty cash shall be made through vouchers. 
However, an advance may be granted for a certain matter and that advance shall be issued only to a member of the Committee 
or to a member who have bond with the agreement in connection with that matter. He shall make actions to settle the advance 
within a week of completion of the respective work.
Residual money
The residual amount of money shall be determined after the annual audit of the District Elders Organization. 50% from the 
residual amount shall be added to the ldrl m%d.aOkhg of the organization as a safety reserve. The rest of money can  be 
disbursed to :
1. Buy assets
2. Welfare aﬀ airs
3. Donations and special events identiﬁ ed by the committee
4. Cultural, social and common welfare activities
5. Other expenses approved by the Committee and General Assembly.
All the matters mentioned above shall be considered in a Genera l Assembly meeting held with the participation 
of District Secretary or Social Services Oﬃ  cer/ Elder’s Right Promotion Oﬃ  cer/ Development Oﬃ  cer/ Provincial 
Social Services Oﬃ  cer nominated by the District Secretary. 
Welfare 
There is a Common Welfare Fund for the District Elders Organiza tion. Welfare activities of  District Elders Organization 
shall be carried out for members, for children of members and c hildren with disabilities and as common welfare activities 
for non-members. 
Welfare funds
Welfare fund shall be maintained in the custody of the Treasurer of the District Elders Organization. The expenses incurred 
by those funds shall be approved expenses by the Committee or t he General Assembly.  However, due to an emergency 
matter, expenses up to Rs. 10,000/= can be incurred on the orde rs of the President of the District Elders Organization, and 
an amount not exceeding Rs. 25,000/= can be incurred on the approval of the committee.  
1. Monthly contribution fees of its members
2. Allocations assigned as per these rules after conducting the Audit. 
3. Contributions to this fund by the surplus generated from various projects of the District Elders Organization.
4. Miscellaneous donations 
5. Dividend revenue or interest revenue received for welfare fund 
When incurring expenses from this fund, necessities or the prio rity should be identiﬁ ed by the committee.  The welfare of 
the members shall be the priority of the activities of this fund. In addition, committee can decide the contributions for above 
mentioned activities from welfare fund. 
Welfare expenses should not be made based on any other purpose but only related to welfare.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 31A
Extra Contributions to welfare fund
50% from surplus amount arisen after the annual audit of the Di strict Elders Organization shall be added to this fund. This 
allocations shall be credited to the welfare fund from working capital of the District Elders Organization after presenting the 
Audit Report to the General Assembly. 
Donations  
Donations to this fund can be received from members, non-member s, state, provincial councils, local councils and various 
corporations, boards, institutions and organizations. It can be  granted as ﬁ  nancial and material with values. Financial 
donations shall be incurred for the matters proposed by those donors in compliance with this constitution. 
Donations mentioned by above sentence can be spent for following matters.  
1. Financial expenses
2. Material expenses
3. Expenses through miscellaneous constructions
4. Expenses on illnesses or disorders
5. Expenditure on hygiene and health facilities  
6. Expenditure on religious, cultural and common social welfare
7. Other expenses recommended by the Government, Provincial Council or Local Government or Divisional Secretary
Loan relief aﬀ airs 
On an amount not exceeding 2/3 from working capital of the District Elders Organization  and using deposits, aids and loans 
obtained from the Bank on outside loan limits of the District E lders Organization, every member can be granted loans on 
subsidized interests. For the loans provided ﬁ nancing from external Institutions, terms and conditions of th ose Institutions 
shall be apply additionally. The Committee shall determine the interest rates on loans from time to time. Interest rates shall 
not exceed 4% from the rates paid for deposits.
Interests
Maximum amount of the membership loans shall be determined by the committee of the District Elders Organization on the 
ﬁ nancial information of each Regional Member Organization and loans shall not be provided exceeding those limits. All the 
decisions should be made on the committee orders. 
Guarantees 
Loans can be granted in the maximum limits adopted by the Gener al Assembly on the base of economic feasibility of the 
member organization. However loans can be granted based on the feasibility of any project that is being run. In addition, 
special loan facilities can be granted. On the ﬁ  nancial needs of any Regional Elders Member Organization, a lo an can be 
granted by keeping the property owned by that District Elders Organization as collateral, up to amount of 2/3 of the assessed 
value of the said property subject to a maximum limit of 05 lakhs.
Functions of the Director /Authority
The full authority of establishment / registration of this Dist rict Elders Organization is belonged to Director of National 
Elders Secretariat. The Director can delegate his powers to Additional, Deputy and Assistant Directors. In the ﬁ eld, the power 
of registration District Elders Organizations under the Director of National Elders Secretariat is vested to District Secretary. 
When registration of the District Elders Organizations on such powers, a one copy of registration should be forwarded to the 
Director of National Elders Secretariat. The Director of the National Elders Secretariat should act as to protect rights of the 
members in the registration of these District Elders Organizations and he may act on taking legal actions for continuity  of 
the functioning of the District Elders Organizations, monitoring the ﬁ nancial activities of the District Elders Organizations, 

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 32A
decision making on District Elders Organizations and members an d various disputes, re-organize the organizations on the 
collapse of possibilities of the organizations to re-establishment it as to protect rights of the senior citizens or liquidate and 
dissolve when it is diﬃ  cult to re-organize.
In addition, conducting special investigations in connection with allegations against the main oﬃ  ce holders of the committee 
and suspending he/them from their posts  and appointing suitable qualiﬁ ed government oﬃ  cials for that. Providing a decision 
in the case of a Regional Elders Organization requests to withd raw from the District Elders Organization and conducting 
a special investigation in connection with any general allegati on against a member of the District Elders Organization 
and suspending his/her membership temporarily/permanently. The Director of the National Elders Secretariat or an oﬃ  cer 
authorized by him will have the power to audit the accounts of the District Elders Organization and investigate the functioning 
and eﬀ ectiveness of the District Elders Organization on whenever deemed necessary.
All the decision makings of the District Elders Organization should be done by the General Assembly on the recommendations 
of the Committee. However, The Committee has the power to take decisions on urgent matters and the President has the power 
to take decisions within the limits prescribed by the General A ssembly to avoid prejudices arisen due to not taking some 
decision. But those decisions shall be submitted to the Committ ee and the General assembly to get approval subsequently. 
When the District Elders Organizations cannot take a decision on certain matter, the Director of National Elders Secretariat 
/ Divisional Secretary or his Oﬃ  cer has the power to be further considered on that. If the Ge neral Assembly / Committee 
hesitates to take that decision on the intervention of the Director, the Registrar can take a decision considering the harm that 
can be arisen on not taking that decision. That decision will be the ﬁ nal decision.  
 
Intervention of the Government Oﬃ  cers
The District Elders Organization has the power of taking all the necessary decisions on administration aﬀ airs of the District 
Elders Organization. However, if those decisions lead to any di sputes or an issue related to a ﬁ  nancial matter, District 
Secretary or his authorized representative has the power to int ervene on that matter. In addition, when a problem arises 
regarding the establishment and functioning of the District Elders Organization, the Director of National Elders Secretariat 
can take a decision after investigation and Director’s decision will be the ﬁ nal decision. 
Auditing
Audit Committees
An Internal Audit Committee consisted by three persons with ability of inquiring on accounts, ﬁ nancial status and functioning 
of the District Elders Organization shall be activated. The com mittee shall be appointed by the General Assembly of the 
District Elders Organization. This committee should check the m onthly summaries and balance sheets on receipts and 
payments of the District Elders Organization and submit a repor t to the committee in next month. In addition, loan deposit 
investments and projects carried out by the District Elders Organization should be scrutinized by this committee. 
External Audit 
Annual audit of the District Elders Organization can be conducted by a person, whose name is in a list of the audit oﬃ  cers 
maintained by Director of the National Elders Secretariat / Dis trict Secretary. This Audit shall be completed within 03 
months after the end of ﬁ nancial year and the Audit Report shall be submitted to the Ge neral Assembly. The audit should 
consist of a balance sheet that reﬂ ects actual status of the assets and liabilities of the Distri ct Elders Organization and the 
Auditor or a Recognized Accounting Oﬃ  cer should certify that whether the activities done by Distri ct Elders Organization 
within the period of auditing are in compliance with these rule s and legal provisions regarding the rights of elders. In this 
audit, the Auditor has powers entitled to General Auditor and t he District Elders Organization shall bear the expenses of 
audit as prescribe by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat / District Secretary. 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 33A
Special Inspections and Investigations
The Director or a person authorized by him can conduct an inspection or an investigation on establishment, functioning and 
ﬁ nancial status of the District Elders Organization in relation to a certain function or a certain deﬁ nite time. The authorized 
person has powers on investigation of documents and properties,  obtaining written statements, obtaining various reports 
and data and after the submission the relevant report to the Di rector of National Elders Secretariat, he can take actions to 
explaining the faults and mistakes to the District Elders Organization, taking explanations for not dismissing them from their 
posts, forwarding these information to General Assembly, conferring the authority to General Assembly to be taken actions 
for those oﬃ  cers, respectively and  if the General Assembly  does not take actions on that, he can remove the said committee 
within 2 weeks and appoint a Board consisted 03 persons to run the District Elders Organization. This Board has all the 
powers of  the Committee of this District Elders Organization.
General Seal
The District Elders Organization should have a general seal con taining the name of the organization, registration number, 
date and address and that seal should be in the custody of the Secretary of the District Elders Organization. On the every 
legal document signed by the District Elders Organization should be put the seal after signing the President or vice-president, 
secretary or vice-secretary.  
Agreements
The District Elders Organization can enter into agreements with  its member organizations, other registered District Elders 
Organizations or external institutes and persons, Government institutes and Boards for its business aﬀ airs. Those agreements 
must comply with the Law of Contract and when the District Elders Organization signs as a one party, President / Secretary 
shall sign. In the absence of President / Secretary the authori ty can be conferred to vice-president / vice-Secretary.  The 
parties may take judicial action based on the provisions of the  Law of Contracts in relation to any prejudice or loss caused 
to any party due to the violation of these agreements. 
Amendment of the rules
If a necessity arises to be amended these rules, that amendment can be considered and approved by the General Assembly on 
submission that amended rule in writing or if there is a fact i dentiﬁ ed by the committee, submission it to general assembly 
with the committee decision.  
 
1. In case of the Director of National Elders Secretariat refers s ome amendment with prior approval, a decision 
should be taken by submission that amendment to the General Ass embly. The amendments recommended by the 
committee, can be passed on 2/3 majority vote in a general asse mbly with quorum and those amendments should 
be submitted to the Director of National Elders Secretariat to get his approval.  Those amendments can be activated 
after receiving the written approval of the Director of National Elders Secretariat. 
Disputes
The Director of the Elders Secretariat has the authority to appoint one or a Board consisting three persons whose names 
are mentioned in a list, maintained by the Director of National  Elders Secretariat named as Arbitrators to investigate 
the disputes to investigate ﬁ nancial or non-ﬁ nancial disputes arising between a member, a worker of the District Elders 
Organizations or other District Elders Organizations and a cont racted person or other party. Such Oﬃ  cer or Board 
appointed shall be a public servant deﬁ ned in the Penal Code. He or the Board shall have the powers vested accordingly. 
The verdict given on the investigation should be accepted by both parties and if any party is dissatisﬁ ed, they can appeal 
to the Director of the National Elders Secretariat with an appeal fee set by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat. 
The decision given by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat for that appeal will be the ﬁ nal decision. 

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 34A
Liquidation
The District Elders Organization can be liquidized if a situati on arises that the District Elders Organization cannot be 
activated continuously or on the adoption of suggestions done b y the General Assembly  based on the decisions of the 
committee on accounts reports, special inspection reports, inve stigation reports etc. This liquidation is a responsible of the  
Director of the National Elders Secretariat and the Director of  the National Elders Secretariat should investigate whether 
the District Elders Organization can be re-organized and upheld  continuously before liquidation. The Director of National 
Elders Secretariat should appoint a person or a Board whose nam e appears in a register of liquidators  maintained by the 
Director of National Elders Secretariat to liquidize this District Elders Organization. This Liquidator shall act to sell assets 
or convert them into cash using assets, liabilities, account balances of the District Elders Organizations following the formal 
procedure in relation with properties and following procurement  procedures and after incurring the liquidation expenses 
from the proceeds and respectively settling the balances of Government or Bank loans, settling the member’s deposits and If 
there are additional expenses to be paid, settling those also and  it should be handed over to the Director of National Elders 
Secretariat to publish the completion of liquidation of the Dis trict Elders Organizations through newspapers and gazette 
notices. If there is remaining amount of money in the liquidati on, it should be credited to the National Fund for Elders of 
the  National Elders Secretariat.
These rules have been adopted by …………. votes in favor /unanimou sly in the General Assembly held with participation 
of…………members out of ……….. total members of the District Elders Organization on……….of………………. 20…..
 ...................................... ....................... ...........
 President Secretary
Date..............................
These rules were registered by the Director or Authorized Oﬃ   cer at …………………………………oﬃ  ce on ……
of…………………20……
 .................................
 Director
On the date of .............................        
Rules for Provincial  Elders Organizations, prepared in accordance with Sub-section (g) in Section 14 of 
Act, No. 09 of 2000, amended by Act, No. 05 of 2011
National Secretariats for Elders '
Registration number :
Registration date  :
   
  Name :- Name of this Provincial Elders Organization is cited as…………………………………………………………
1. It shall be referred as the Provincial Elders Organization i n Constitutions and all the written declarations hereinafter.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 35A
2. The address ………………………………………………………. shall be the address of t he Secretary of the 
Provincial Elders Organization or the other place, decided by t he General Assembly.  Changing the address is 
not a changing the rules and such a change shall be informed to  Director of Provincial Social Services / Director 
of National Elders Secretariat/ relevant parties in connection with member organizations and District Elders 
Organizations within 7 days.
3. Province   :-
4. Date of inception  :-
5. Goal of the Provincial Elders Organization : 
Enhancement the living standards of the elders of the member or ganizations and guiding and directing to make 
them satisﬁ ed senior citizens directly or otherwise,  contributing to acc omplish social, economic and cultural 
necessities of the  member organizations activate in the area o f the Province, in accordance with Protection of the 
rights of the Elders Act and other legal provisions issued from  time to time and in accordance with the rules and 
regulations made thereunder. 
6. Powers of the Provincial Elders Organization :
I. Directing the member organizations for the promotion of mental,  health, spiritual, economic, physical 
welfare of the elders living in relevant provincial area by pro tecting their freedom, independence, care, 
dignity and self-esteem. 
II. Directing member organizations to building the good morals and well-being of the society   by identifying 
and implementing welfare programs through a Participatory Development Approach for elders live in the 
provincial area and children, youth and disabled communities, responsible for them.
III. Development the economic status of the elders through identifyi ng income generating projects and 
implementing those projects in coordinating with relevant persons and Institutes
IV. Identifying the innate skills of adults and developing and appreciating those skills
V. Identifying economically and socially disadvantaged elders and empowering them and providing them 
welfare services.
VI. Introducing strategies and provide guidance in legal, health, mental assisting to avoid various problematic 
situations faced by the elders generally.
VII. Directing elders to their social, economic, spiritual and cultural development, organizing, empowering and 
contributing to implement, providing leadership for various wel fare projects granted under government 
and non-government organizations, contributing to establish a h umanistic social environment within its 
area through coordinating by gathering elders, who need service s and live in rural and urban areas using 
Participatory Development Approach.
VIII. Identifying resource persons in the area, availing their services and evaluating them
IX. Identifying income generation programs of low income elderly persons live in the area and implementation 
those programs coordinating with Provincial Elders Organizations.
X. Conducting health clinics, counseling, entertainment, religious and cultivation projects and programs. 
XI. Assisting to solve the common problems and issues faced by the elders living in the area at regional level.
XII. Sharing the knowledge and experience of senior citizens who has expert knowledge
7. Domain : ………………….. Provincial area of the ………………….Province s hall be the domain of this 
organization.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 36A
8. Membership of the Provincial Elders Organization :
Members of the organization at the time of registration the Pro vincial Elders Organization under these rules and 
the members who get membership after the registration of the Pr ovincial Elders Organization, shall have following 
qualiﬁ cations
i. Qualiﬁ cations :
 Should be a Provincial Elders Organization willing to comply all the provisions mentioned in these rules. 
 Should be  an Organization agreeing to submit a data report or income report for membership or any other 
information
 Should be agreed to act as an active member by paying ﬁ  nancial contribution annually in accordance with 
these rules.
 Should be a District Elders Organization that haven’t got any dispute with the Provincial Elders Organization
 Shall not be a District Elders Organization defaulted the payment to be paid to Provincial Elders Organization
 Shall not have faced for no faith situation or be a person who has not been removed from his post in last 5 years
ii. Enrolment :
 Sign the pioneer member to the application to register 
 Complete and submit a data report and application comprising its information and get approval of the General 
Assembly and the Committee.
iii.  Member Register :
A register of the members of the Provincial Elders Organization shall be maintained.  (It shall be in the custody of the 
secretary of the Provincial Elders Organization and the detail of member’s name, address, registration number and 
number of the members of organizations) 
iv. Duties, Responsibilities and Rights of the members :
After getting approval the membership by General Assembly, the President, Secretary, Treasurer of the Provincial 
Organization or a person authorized by the Organization formally is entitle to the rights of the Organization.  Franchise 
entitled as a member’s right shall be used by the Organization and any of the member has duties, responsibilities and 
rights on to be elected to any post of the Provincial Elders Organization, to propose or ratify proposals for a member for 
that, to bring a motion of no conﬁ dence against the oﬃ  ce holders,  if the oﬃ  ce holders abuse their powers and violate 
these rules or vote for such a no conﬁ dence, to act transparently in connection with the transaction s of the Provincial 
Elders Organization, to have beneﬁ ts if contributing to ﬁ nancial aﬀ airs such as deposits and loans, to be partners in all 
the activities indicated in the rules.  
Termination of the membership
Resignation after  the formal approval of District Secretary / Director on a 2/3 majority decision in the General 
Assembly of the Provincial Elders Organization
Abolition the membership on the decisions of General Assembly due to violation of rules
Abolition of membership due to judicial procedure
Taking a legal decision due to any dispute with the organization conﬁ rming that dispute
In termination the membership on any other reason except the na tural causes or resignation from the above reasons, 
the Secretary of the Provincial Elders Organization should inform it to relevant member before a month after making a 

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 37A
committee decision considering the facts to be caused  for that and the member organization will have the opportunity 
to convince facts to General assembly. The General assembly has  the power to take a ﬁ  nal decision on those facts. 
However, such a member organization can submit an appeal to the Director of the National Elders Secretariat / Director 
of Provincial Social Services regarding the decision of the General Assembly. That decision will be the ﬁ nal decision.
General Assembly
Meetings of General Assembly
General Assembly meetings of the Provincial Elders Organization can be held monthly or once in three months. Apart from 
that, the Special General Assembly Meetings can be held on the request of its membership or on behalf of  the persistence 
of the Provincial Elders Organization on the decision of the co mmittee. Except from that, Director of National Secretariat 
for Elders can call a General Assembly meeting by a written notice made by himself or a representative authorized by him 
within 7 of working days and presence of 1/3 of members is considered as the quorum for those meetings. 
General Assembly shall be called by the Secretary of the Provincial Elders Organization. Calling of meetings shall be made 
on a standard communication method or on the communication method prescribed by the committee and the committee shall 
satisfy whether the members have been duly informed.
Minutes of the General Assembly shall be taken in the same instance by Secretary of the Provincial Elders Organization and 
when he/she is absent, it shall be done by a person, who were authorized by the committee.
The chair of the General Assembly shall be held by the Presiden t of the District Elders Organization, in his absence the 
Vice-President and in the absence of both of them, an oﬃ  cer belonging to the Committee may be temporarily appointed a s 
the President based on the proposal adopted by the General Asse mbly. But his presidency shall be eﬀ ective only for that 
meeting. The chair of a meeting, called by Director of National  Elders Secretariat or Authorized Representative, shall be 
held by him. 
Powers and Functions
General Assembly shall be held on the Agenda, passed by the com mittee and communicated to the members. However, if 
non-ﬁ nancial proposals are presented by the General Assembly, it can be considered during the meeting of General Assembly. 
Further, all the functions, enforced by these rules can be implemented in the General Assembly meeting. General Assembly 
of the Provincial Elders Organization can decide the actions such as to grant new memberships, suspension or cancellation 
of the membership on formal inquiry, to expulsion from membersh ip, to consider the committee recommendations related 
to annual budget estimates, development plans and projects and making relevant decisions, to consider about annual audit 
report, to appoint the oﬃ  cers as per the rules, to make decisions to buy or sell and r ent or lease the assets, and making 
decisions on no-faith incidents.
Composition and operation of the General Assembly
The General Assembly of the Provincial Elders Organization consists of the founding member organizations and the members 
approved after the ﬁ rst General Assembly. As well, if the membership has been acquired, it can be represented the Annual 
General Meeting on the active contribution (participation and ﬁ  nancial contribution) for the well-being of its members in 
accordance with these rules, and the relevant documents shall b e submitted to the Committee by the Secretary. However, 
if any inactive member organization  restores its membership  i n active participation after paying 03 months’ arrears of its 
contribution, they shall be called for General Assembly after that.  

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 38A
Quorum
Quorum of the General Assembly of the District Elders Organization shall be consisted in whichever is less from 2/3 or 25 
from number of the members.
In the Annual General Assembly meeting on a ﬁ xed date, qualiﬁ ed members shall be appointed for following oﬃ  ces adopted 
by the consent of majority.  
1. Honorary President  - 
A representative of any member organization  of the Provincial Elders Organization may be appointed as the 
President by a suggestion adopted in the General Assembly or a nominated Government Oﬃ  cer may temporarily 
hold the post on a decision taken by the Director of the National Elders Secretariat /Provincial Director/ Provincial 
Commissioner, after considering a certain enquiry. He/she is the Chief Executive of the Organization.
2. Honorary vice-President  
There is a vice-president to act in the absence of the presiden t of the Provincial Elders Organization. He should 
be appointed in the Committee of the Provincial Elders Organiza tion. In the occasions that the President of the  
Provincial Elders Organization has gone abroad, has taken leave  due to illness, has taken special leave requesting 
the committee in the occasion that he is unable to perform the duties of his position, he should perform the duties 
of the post of President.
3. Honorary Secretary 
 A member appointed by the General Assembly shall be the Secret ary of the Provincial Elders Organization. He 
/She should perform the duties of calling and reporting the mee tings, functioning regarding the correspondence 
of the Provincial Elders Organization on the orders of the Pres ident, carrying out prescribed activities  on the 
Protection of the Rights of Elders Act, these rules and  the Committee orders.
4. Honorary Vice-Secretary  
There is a Vice-Secretary to act in the absence of the Secretar y of the Provincial Elders Organization. He should 
be appointed in the Committee of the Provincial Elders Organiza tion. In the occasions that the Secretary of the 
Provincial Elders Organization has gone abroad, has taken leave  due to illness, has taken special leave requesting 
the committee in the occasion that he is unable to perform the duties of his position, he should perform the duties 
of the post of Secretary. 
5. Honorary Treasurer
The Treasurer appointed in the General Assembly shall be act re garding the ﬁ nance of the Provincial Elders  
Organization as per the Rules. He shall perform the duties on submission the detail of transactions of the Provincial 
Elders  Organization to the Committee and General Assembly and Director of the National Elders Secretariat / 
Provincial Director/ Commissioner or Authorized Oﬃ  cer or Auditors, ﬁ nancial administration aﬀ air, Bank accounts 
aﬀ airs and maintaining and protecting all the accounts books and  performing all types of legal activities eﬀ ecting 
to this Provincial Elders Organization. 
When any complaint or allegation is submitted regarding the oﬃ  cers holding positions from above 01 to 05, the Director 
of National Elders Secretariat has the power to temporarily suspend that post and to run the Provincial Elders Organization 
nominating a suitable government oﬃ  cer for that post after conducting an investigation in this regard.
Composition of the Committee : 
A Committee consists 09 members including the above oﬃ   ces or members taken as one committee member from one 
District Elders Organization but made up of odd numbers shall b e elected by General Assembly for the Provincial Elders 

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 39A
Organization in accordance with the rules. It shall be appointed in a General Assembly meeting called for that purpose. The 
Committee thus appointed shall be eﬀ ective for two years from the date of appointment. One person can be appointed for the 
positions mentioned therein only four times and that condition is not applicable to be appointed to the committee.
Qualiﬁ cations for the Committee
The members to be appointed for the Committee shall have following qualiﬁ cations
1. Shall be an active District Member Organization of the Provincial Elders Organization
2. Shall not be a District Member Organization that had any dispute with the Provincial Elders Organization
3. Shall not be a representative of a District Elders Organization who has defaulted of payment to be paid to Provincial 
Elders Organization
4. Shall have a good health condition
5. Shall not be a  District Elders Organization that has faced for  no faith situation or be a person who has not been 
removed from his post in last 5 years.
Powers of the Committee 
1. To prepare estimates and annual plans of the Provincial Elders Organization and submit them for the approval of 
the General Assembly.
2. To organize and maintain various projects, activities and other things leading to the welfare of the elders
3. To collect, protect and disburse  money in productive investments.
4. Accounting and decision making considering the monthly and annual budgets.
5. To submit reports, observations and recommendations to be submitted to the General Assembly in accordance with 
these rules and to carry out other legal activities.
6. To study audit reports, special inspection reports and investigation reports and making decisions.
Forfeit of Committee membership
Committee membership shall be forfeited on the one or more of the following reasons.
1. Expiry of the term of oﬃ   ce
2. Forfeit the Membership 
3. Being committed to no-faith
4. Removal
On the disqualiﬁ cation of a person who are bearing the membership of a Provinc ial Elders Organization and appointed 
representing District Elders Organization, there should be no p rejudice to the membership of the said organization or the 
membership of committee of that organization.
Anniversary Meetings of General Assembly 
Anniversary General Assembly Meetings of the organization shall be conducted annually. That Anniversary General Assembly 
should be held within 03 months of the end of the ﬁ nancial year. In this meeting, annual progress of the organization, Audit 
report of the Organization, Action plan of next year and the Budget shall be presented.     
In addition, If there are special proposals presented by the members, it should be considered at this annual meeting.
Capital
Member fees
Every member organization of the Provincial Elders Organization shall pay Rs. 9000/- annually as the membership fee. 

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 40A
State Donations 
This refers the loans, aids and donations given by the Government or by the Provincial Council or by the Local Government 
bodies in relation to the welfare of the elders or related to the matters compiled in these rules.
Deposits
There shall be a deposit fund on the deposits received by the P rovincial Elders Organization.  In that fund compulsory 
deposits, normal deposits and ﬁ xed deposits can be made from members and the rate of interest  decided by the committee  
shall be paid annually. 
External borrowings
Loans can be obtained from the Government, the Provincial Council, the Local Government bodies or the Banks, Corporations, 
Boards and any other Institutions for the ﬁ nancial needs of the Provincial Elders Organization and a formal procedure should 
be followed in obtaining these loans. In obtaining these loans and deposits, there shall be a General Assembly approved limit 
for external loans and loans and deposits can be obtained subje ct to that limit. Decision making power on these loans and 
deposits is belonged to the Provincial Elders Organization.
Net Proﬁ t
 50% of the residual proﬁ t shown in the annual audit conducted by the Provincial Elders  Organization shall be added to the 
working capital of the Provincial Elders Organization as a safety reserve on the decisions of General Assembly. 
Income earned by other ways 
This refers the ﬁ nance generating programs, income generating projects and contracts, businesses and money generated by 
building various funds to continue activities of the Provincial Elders Organization on the base of its functions.
 When obtaining aids from various projects,  especially in the case of contracts, it should be concerned to charge the 
relevant percentage in accordance with the instructions issued by the Treasury. 
Financial year
The ﬁ nancial year of the organization shall be from 01st of May of each year to 3oth of April of the following year. 
Handling money 
The money received by the Provincial Elders Organization under the above Articles shall be the common funds of the 
organization. Thus it consists membership funds and various government and non-government funds as well, It is subject to 
the provisions of the Public Property Act, No. 12 of 1982. All the money handling and Bank accounts handling aﬀ airs of the 
Provincial Elders Organization should be done by the Treasurer as per the orders of the President. However, signature sheets 
of the clients of Provincial Elders Organization must be approv ed by Director of the National Elders Secretariat / District 
Secretary and it will be possible to recruit employees for this  purpose on the prior approval of the Director when the deals 
of Provincial Elders Organization is wider.
 In transactions of money, the Provincial Elders Organization shall maintain the transactions through a current account or 
a savings account of a Bank approved by the Director of National Elders Secretariat / District Secretary and Treasurer of the 
District Elders Organization should deposit money in the current account when the balance in his hand exceeds  Rs.5,000/- 
and when the balance of current account exceeds  Rs.50,000/- he  should invest extra cash available in addition to ﬁ nancial 
requirements of the Provincial Elders Organization, in the ﬁ xed or savings deposits.
 All the receipts and payments of the Provincial Elders Organiz ation should be made on receipts and vouchers and those 
should be recorded daily in the cash book as receipts and payments. All the personal accounts shown in the cash book should 

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 41A
be recorded in the personal ledgers, and the creditor’s and debtor’s accounts should be recorded in the creditor’s and debtor’s 
ledgers. The Treasurer shall submit monthly ﬁ nancial report to the Provincial Elders Organization. Small am ounts of daily  
expenses of the Provincial Elders Organization shall be maintained on a petty cash imprest method and  expenditures made 
in petty cash should be in a maximum of Rs.500/- and petty cash imprest shall be Rs. 5,000/-. A separate cash book should 
be maintained for petty cash and petty cash should be settled a nd balanced the account at the end of every month. All 
other expenses except expenses of the Provincial Elders Organiz ation incurred in petty cash shall be made through Bank 
Accounts. However, an advance may be granted for a certain matt er and that advance shall be issued only to a member of 
the Committee or to a member who have bond with the agreement in connection with that matter. He shall make actions to 
settle the advance within a week of completion of the respective work.
Residual money
The residual amount of money shall be determined after the annu al audit of the Provincial Elders Organization. 40% from 
the residual amount shall be added to the ldrl m%d.aOkhg of the organization as a safety reserve and 10% of contributio n 
shall be paid to National Fund for Elders of National Elders Secretariat The rest of money can be disbursed to :
1. Buy assets
2. Welfare aﬀ airs
3. Donations and special events identiﬁ ed by the Committee
4. Cultural, social and common welfare activities
5. Other expenses approved by the Committee and General Assembly.
All the matters mentioned above shall be considered in a general assembly meeting held with the participation of Provincial 
Social Services Director/ Commissioner or Elder’s Right Promoti on Oﬃ  cer/ Development Oﬃ  cer/ Provincial Social 
Services Oﬃ  cer nominated by the Provincial Social Services Director/ Commissioner. 
Welfare 
There is a Common Welfare Fund for the Provincial Elders Organization. Welfare activities of  Provincial Elders Organization 
shall be carried out for members, for children of members and c hildren with disabilities and as common welfare activities 
for non-members. 
Welfare funds
Welfare fund shall be maintained in the custody of the Treasurer of the Provincial Elders Organization. The expenses incurred 
by those funds shall be approved expenses by the Committee or t he General Assembly.  However, due to an emergency 
matter, expenses up to Rs. 5,000/= can be incurred on the orders of the President of the Provincial Elders Organization, and 
an amount not exceeding Rs. 10,000/= can be incurred on the approval of the committee.  
1. Monthly contribution fees of its members
2. Allocations assigned as per these rules after conducting the Audit. 
3. Contributions to this fund by the surplus generated from various projects of the Provincial Elders Organization.
4. Miscellaneous donations 
5. Dividend revenue or interest revenue received for welfare fund 
When incurring expenses from this fund, necessities or the prio rity should be identiﬁ ed by the Committee. The welfare of 
the members shall be the priority of the activities of this fund. In addition, committee can decide the contributions for above 
mentioned activities from welfare fund. 
Welfare expenses should not be made based on any other purpose but only related to welfare.

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 42A
Extra Contributions to welfare fund
50% from surplus amount arisen after the annual audit of the Provincial Elders Organization shall be added to this fund. This 
allocation shall be credited to the welfare fund from working c apital of the Provincial Elders Organization after presenting 
the Audit report to the General Assembly. 
Donations  
Donations to this fund can be received from members, non-member s, state, provincial councils, local councils and various 
corporations, boards, institutions and organizations. It can be  granted as ﬁ  nancial and material with values. Financial 
donations shall be incurred for the matters proposed by those donors in compliance with this constitution. 
Donations mentioned by above sentence can be spent for following matters.  
1. Financial expenses
2. Material expenses
3. Expenses through miscellaneous constructions
4. Expenses on illnesses or disorders
5. Expenditure on hygiene and health facilities  
6. Expenditure on religious, cultural and common social welfare
7. Other expenses recommended by the Government, Provincial Council or Local Government or Divisional Secretary 
Loan relief aﬀ airs 
On an amount not exceeding 2/3 from working capital of the Prov incial Elders Organization  and using deposits, aids and 
loans obtained from the Bank on outside loan limits of the Prov incial Elders Organization, every member can be granted 
loans on subsi dized interests. For the loans provided ﬁ  nancing from external Institutions, terms and conditions of th ose 
Institutions shall be apply additionally. The Committee shall determine the interest rates for loans from time to time subject 
to covering approval of the General Assembly. Interest rates shall not exceed 4% from the rates paid for deposits. 
Interests
Maximum amount of the membership loans shall be determined by t he committee of the Financial Elders Organization on 
the ﬁ nancial information of each District Member Organization and loans shall not be provided exceeding those limits. All 
the decisions should be made on the committee orders. 
Guarantees 
Loans can be granted in the maximum limits adopted by the Gener al Assembly on the base of economic feasibility of the 
District Member Organization. However loans can be granted base d on the feasibility of any project that is being run. In 
addition, special loan facilities can be granted. On the ﬁ nancial needs of any District Elders Member Organization, a lo an 
can be granted by keeping the property owned by that Regional Elders Organization as collateral, up to amount of 2/3 of the 
assessed value of the said property subject to a maximum limit of 05 lakhs.
Functions of the Director of the National Elders Secretariat /Authority
The full authority of establishment / registration of this Prov incial Elders Organization is belonged to Director of National 
Elders Secretariat. The Director can delegate his powers to Add itional, Deputy and Assistant Directors. Accordingly, the 
power of registration Provincial Elders Organizations under the Director of National Elders Secretariat is vested to Provincial 
Director. When registration of the Provincial Elders Organizati ons on such powers, a one copy of registration should be 
forwarded to the Director of National Elders Secretariat. The D irector of the National Elders Secretariat should act as to 
protect rights of the members in the registration of these Prov incial Elders Organizations and he may act on taking legal 
actions for continuity  of the functioning of the Provincial El ders Organizations, monitoring the ﬁ nancial activities of the 

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 43A
Provincial Elders Organizations, decision making on Provincial Elders Organizations and members and various disputes, 
re-organize the organizations on the collapse of possibilities of the organizations to re-establishment it as to protect rights of 
the senior citizens or liquidate and dissolve when it is diﬃ  cult to re-organize.
In addition, conducting special investigations in connection with allegations against the main oﬃ  ce holders of the Committee 
and suspending he/them from the post/posts  and appointing suit able qualiﬁ ed government oﬃ  cials for that. Providing a 
decision in the case of a District Elders Organization requests  to withdraw from the Provincial Elders Organization and 
conducting a special investigation in connection with any gener al allegation against a member of the Provincial Elders 
Organization and suspending his/her membership temporarily/permanently. The Director of the National Elders Secretariat 
or an oﬃ  cer authorized by him will have the power to audit the accounts of the Provincial Elders Organization and investigate 
the functioning and eﬀ ectiveness of the Provincial Elders Organization on whenever deemed necessary.
Decision Making
All the decision makings of the Provincial Elders Organization should be done by the General Assembly on the 
recommendations of the Committee. However, The Committee has th e power to take decisions on urgent matters and the 
President has the power to take decisions within the limits pre scribed by the General Assembly to avoid prejudice arisen 
due to not taking some decision. But those decisions shall be s ubmitted to the Committee and the General assembly to get 
approval subsequently. When the Provincial Elders Organizations cannot take a decision on certain matter, the Director of 
National Elders Secretariat /Provincial Social Services Directo r/ Commissioner or his Oﬃ  cer has the power to be further 
considered on that. If the General Assembly / Committee hesitates to take that decision on the intervention of the Director, 
the Director of National Elders Secretariat can take a decision  considering the harm that can be arisen on not taking that 
decision. That decision will be the ﬁ nal decision.   
Intervention of the Government Oﬃ  cers
The Provincial Elders Organization has the power of taking all the necessary decisions on administration aﬀ  airs of the 
Provincial Elders Organization. However, if those decisions lea d to any disputes or an issue related to a ﬁ  nancial matter, 
Provincial Social Services Director or his Authorized Representative has the power to intervene on that matter. In addition, 
when a problem arises regarding the establishment and functioni ng of the Provincial Elders Organization, the Director of 
National Elders Secretariat can take a decision after investigation and the Director’s decision will be the ﬁ nal decision.
Auditing
1. Audit Committees
An Internal Audit Committee consisted by three persons with ability of inquiring on accounts, ﬁ nancial status and functioning 
of the Provincial Elders Organization shall be activated. The committee shall be appointed by the General Assembly of the 
Provincial Elders Organization. This committee should check the  monthly summaries and balance sheets on receipts and 
payments of the District Elders Organization and submit a repor t to the committee in next month. In addition, loan deposit 
investments and projects carried out by the Provincial Elders Organization should be scrutinized by this committee. 
1. External Audit 
Annual audit of the Provincial Elders Organization can be condu cted by a person, whose name is in a list of the audit 
oﬃ  cers maintained by Director of the National Elders Secretaria t / Social Services Director/Commissioner. This Audit 
shall be completed within 03 months after the end of ﬁ nancial year and the Audit Report shall be submitted to the Ge neral 
Assembly. The audit should consist of a balance sheet that reﬂ ects actual status of the assets and liabilities of the Provincial 
Elders Organization and the Auditor or a Recognized Accounting Oﬃ  cer should certify that whether the activities done 
by Provincial Elders Organization within the period of auditing  are in compliance with these rules and legal provisions 

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 44A
regarding the rights of elders. In this audit, the Auditor has powers entitled to General Auditor and the Provincial Elders 
Organization shall bear the expenses of audit as prescribe by t he Director of the National Elders Secretariat / Provincial 
Director/Commissioner. 
Special Inspections and Investigations
The Director or a person authorized by him can conduct an inspe ction or an investigation on establishment, functioning 
and ﬁ nancial status of the Provincial Elders Organization in relati on to a certain function or a certain deﬁ  nite time. The 
authorized person has powers on investigation of documents and properties, obtaining written statements, obtaining various 
reports and data and after the submission the relevant report to the Director, he can take actions to explaining the faults and 
mistakes to the Provincial Elders Organization, taking explanat ions for not dismissing them from their posts, forwarding 
these information to General Assembly, conferring the authority to General Assembly to be taken actions for those oﬃ  cers, 
respectively and  if the General Assembly  does not take actions on that, he can remove the said committee within 2 weeks 
and appoint a Board consisted 03 persons to run the Provincial Elders Organization. This Board has all the powers of  the 
Committee of this Provincial Elders Organization.
General Seal
The Provincial Elders Organization should have a general seal containing the name of the organization, registration number, 
date and address and that seal should be in the custody of the Secretary of the Provincial Elders Organization. On the every 
legal document signed by the Provincial Elders Organization sho uld be put the seal after signing the President or vice-
president, secretary or vice-secretary.  
Agreements
The Provincial Elders Organization can enter into agreements wi th its member organizations, other registered Provincial 
Elders Organizations or external institutes and persons, Govern ment institutes and Boards for its business aﬀ  airs. Those 
agreements must comply with the Law of Contract and when the Pr ovincial Elders Organization signs as a one party, 
President / Secretary shall sign. In the absence of President /  Secretary the authority can be conferred to vice-president / 
vice-Secretary.  
 Amendment of the rules
1. If a necessity arises to be amended these rules, that amendm ent can be considered and approved by the General 
Assembly on submission that amended rule in writing or if there  is a fact identiﬁ ed by the committee, submission 
it to general assembly with the committee decision.
 
2.   In case of the Director of National Elders Secretariat ref ers some amendment to the Provincial Elders Organization 
with prior approval, a decision should be taken by submission t hat amendment to the General Assembly. The 
amendments recommended by the committee, can be passed on 2/3 majority vote in a general assembly with quorum 
and those amendments should be submitted to the Director of National Elders Secretariat to get his approval.  Those 
amendments can be activated after receiving the written approval of the Director of National Elders Secretariat. 
Disputes
The Director of the Elders Secretariat has the authority to appoint one or a Board consisting three persons whose names are 
mentioned in a list, maintained by the Director of National Elders Secretariat named as Arbitrators to investigate the disputes 
to investigate ﬁ nancial or non-ﬁ nancial disputes arising between a member, a worker of the Provincial Elders Organizations 
or other Provincial  Elders Organization and a contracted person or other party. Such Oﬃ  cer or Board appointed shall be a 
public servant deﬁ ned in the Penal Code. He or the Board shall have the powers v ested accordingly. The verdict given on 

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'01'05
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 05.01.2023
 45A
the investigation should be accepted by both parties and if any  party is dissatisﬁ ed, they can appeal to the Director of the 
National Elders Secretariat with an appeal fee set by the Direc tor of the National Elders Secretariat. The decision given by 
the Director of the National Elders Secretariat for that appeal will be the ﬁ nal decision. 
Liquidation
The Provincial Elders Organization can be liquidized if a situa tion arises that the Provincial Elders Organization cannot 
be activated continuously or on the adoption of suggestions don e by the General Assembly  based on the decisions of 
the committee on accounts reports, special inspection reports, investigation reports etc. This liquidation is a responsible 
of the Director of the National Elders Secretariat and the Dire ctor of the National Elders Secretariat should investigate 
whether the Provincial Elders Organization can be re-organized and upheld continuously before liquidation. The Director of 
National Elders Secretariat should appoint a person or a Board whose name appears in a register of Liquidators  maintained 
by the Director of National Elders Secretariat to liquidize thi s Provincial Elders Organization. This Liquidator shall act 
to sell assets or convert them into cash using assets, liabilit ies, account balances of the Provincial Elders Organizations 
following the formal procedure in relation with properties and following procurement procedures and after incurring the 
liquidation expenses from the proceeds and respectively settlin g the balances of Government or Bank loans, settling the 
member’s deposits and If there are additional expenses to be pa id, settling those also and  it should be handed over to the 
Director of National Elders Secretariat to publish the completi on of liquidation of the Provincial Elders Organizations 
through newspapers and gazette notices. If there is remaining a mount of money in the liquidation, it should be credited to 
the National Fund for Elders of the  National Elders Secretariat.
These rules have been adopted by …………. votes in favor /unanimou sly in the General Assembly held with participation 
of…………members out of ……….. total members of the Provincial Elders Organization on……….of……………. 20…..
 ...................................... ....................... ...........
 President Secretary
Date..............................
These rules were registered by the Director or Authorized Oﬃ   cer at …………………………………oﬃ  ce on ……
of…………………20……
 .................................
 Director
On the date of ............................. 
EOG 01-0029
       
 
     
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.