

<!-- page 1 -->

505 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
505
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 508
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 510
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of publication.
All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of applications in regard to
vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this change, i.e., by giving adequate
time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication thus enabling those interested in the contents
of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks prior to
date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th June, 2007, should reach the Government Press on or before 12 noon on
25th May, 2007.
L AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1,500 _ 2007 °Œ¾ł 01 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .06.01
No. 1,500 – FRIDAY ,  JUNE  01, 2007
N. B.– (i) Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 04, 2007.
(ii) Korean-Lanka International Buddhist Centre (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 30, 2007.
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,499 of  25.05.2007 was not published.
Quarterly statement of Books for April - June 2002, has been published in part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
506
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

507 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B 2 - B 79503

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
508
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AND
SACRED  AREA  DEVELOPMENT
National Physical Planning Department
POST OF DIRECTOR (NA TIONAL PHYSICAL PLANNING)
VACANCY - 01
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
vacant post of Director (National Physical Planning) in the National
Physical Planning Department.
02. Applications duly prefected as per specimen form given
below should be sent by registered post to the Secretary, Ministry
of Urban Development and Sacred Area Development, 03rd Floor,
Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla to reach him on or before 18.06.2007.
The top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the applications
should be marked “Director (National Physical Planning), National
Physical Planning Department”. Applications received after closing
date will not be dealt with. No applications will be issued by the
Ministry of Urban Development and Sacred Area Development or
by the National Physical Planning Department.
03. Job Description.– Preparation of National Physical policies
and plans. Timely review of plans and methodologies and forward
them to Deputy Director General.
04. Basic Qualifications :
(i)Age Limit.– Applicants should be not less than 18 and not
more than 45 years of age. This upper age limit will not be
applicable to those who are already employed in the Public
Service, Provincial Public Service, Corporations and
Statutory Boards.
(ii)Educational Qualifications.– Applicants should have
followed a Post Graduate Course in Town and Country
Planning in a recognized university.
05. Professional and Other Qualifications.– Applicants should
have 15 years experience in the preparation of National, Local and
Regional plans and out of which 07 years should be in the medium
and top level management.
Applicants should have been engaged in research on National,
Local and Regional Planning and preparation of publications.
06. Salary group and salary scale.– Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006 SL-1-2006.
Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Would
be placed on a suitable initial salary step).
07. Efficiency Bar Examination.– The appointees to this post
should pass the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination before 03 years and
the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination before 07 years.
No exemption will be granted from the Efficiency Bar on the
basis of age.
For the first Efficiency Bar, the appointees should sit for a written
test which consists of one question paper on financial procedures
and administration conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration.
The question paper will be prepared so as to test the knowledge
of contents in all chapters of Financial Regulations and Establishments
Code. The minimum of 40% of the total marks should be scored to
get through the examination.
Appointees should obtain Corporate Membership from the Sri
Lanka Institute of Town Planners for the Second Efficiency Bar.
08. Method of Recruitment.– Qualified applicants will be called
for a structural interview and thereby selected, based on the marking
scheme approved by the Public Service Commission.
09. Conditions of Appointment and Service.– This post is
permanent and pensionable. Appointees should contribute to the
Widows’/Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund.
Appointees should be subject to rules in the Establishments
Code, Financial Regulations, Departmental orders and any other
regulations or orders already issued or issued from time to time by
the Government.
Provisions in paragraphs from 10 to 12 in Chapter II of the
Establishments Code will also apply.
10. Applicants should forward photocopies of the following
documents along with their appilcation. (Originals should not be
forwarded) :
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii)Certificate is support of educational qualifications ;
(iii)Certificate is support of Professional qualifications ;
(iv) Certificate relating to Experience ;
(v) National Identity Card.
11. Appilcants who are already in the Pubilc Service should
forward their applications through the respective Heads of
Institutions. A certificate should be annexed indicating that the
applicant can be released from the service if he/she is selected to the
post.
12. Applications together with photocopies of relevant certificates
should be sent by registered post to the address referred to in the
Paragraph 2 above.

<!-- page 5 -->

509 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
13. Applications which do not conform to requirements in all
respects in this notice will be rejected and such applicants will not be
called for the interview.
14. No travelling or other expenses will be paid to the applicants
summoned for the interview.
By order of Pubilc Services Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Urban Development and
Sacred Area Development.
M
INISTRY  OF  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AND  SACRED  AREA  DEVELOPMENT
NATIONAL  PHYSICAL  PLANNING  DEPARTMENT
POST OF DIRECTOR (NATIONAL PHYSICAL PLANNING)
Specimen Application Form
01. Full Name : ————.
Name (with initials) : ————.
02. Address :————.
03. Date of Birth :
Year :————, Month :————, Date :————.
Age as at ……… 2007 :
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
04. Sex :————.
05. Whether Married or Single :————.
06. Place of work and employment :————.
07. Educational Qualifications :————.
08. Professional and Other Qualifications :————.
I hereby certify that the above particulars are true and correct.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
06–113/2
MINISTRY  OF  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AND
SACRED  AREA  DEVELOPMENT
National Physical Planning Department
POST OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL
(IMPLEMENTATION  AND CO-ORDINA TION)
VACANCY - 01
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Deputy Director General (Implementation and Co-ordination)
in the National Physical Planning Department.
02. Application forms prepared as per specimen form given below
should be sent under the registered post on or before 18.06.2007 to
reach the Secretary, Ministry of Urban Development and Sacred Area
Development, 3rd Floor, Sethsiripaya, Battaramulla. The top left hand
corner of the envelope enclosing the application should be marked
“Deputy Director  General (Implementation and Co-ordination),
Department of National Physical Planning”. Applications received after
the closing date will not be dealt with. No applications will be issued
by the Ministry of Urban Development and Sacred Areas Development
or National Physical Planning Department.
03. Job Description.– Identification of  necessary activities to
obtain local and  foreign financial resources for the implementation of
physical  plans, dealing with relevant authorities for operating and
co-ordinating projects and taking action through authorities concerned
to develop relationship with International Institutions.
04. Basic Qualifications :–
I Age Limit.– Applicants should be not less than 18 and not
more than 45 years of age. This upper age limit will not be
applicable to those who are already in the Public Service,
Provincial Public Service, Corporations and Statutory
Boards.
II Educational Qualifications.– Applicants should have
followed a Post Graduate Course from a recognized
university in Town and Country Planning or Engineering
or a Post Graduate Course in a very similar subject to the
above subjects.
05. Professional and other Qualifications.– Applicants should
have 18 years experience with full professional qualifications for Town
and Country Planning and out of which 10 years experience should be
at medium or top management level.
Knowledge of laws relating to Town and Country Planning and
related National and International laws Conduct of researches and
preparation of publications recognized at national level in respect of
National, Local and Regional planning and experience in the
implementation of publications relating to such researches or
preparation of proposals relating to projects, co-ordination of large
scale projects, knowledge of investment in such projects, 5 years
experience having been engaged in projects operated on foreign funds.
Note.– A Post Graduate Course in Business Administration will
be considered as an added qualification.
06. Salary Group and Salary Scale.– P. A. Circular No. 06/2006
SL - 1 - 2006.
Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1050 - Rs. 53,555 (Would
be placed on a suitable initial salary step.)
07. Efficiency Bar.– Appointees should pass the Efficiency Bar
examination before 3 years after the appointement  to the post.
No exemption  will be granted from Efficiency Bar on the basis of
age.
For the efficiency bar the appointees should sit for a written test
which consist of one question paper on financial procedure and
administration conducted by Sri Lanka Institute of Development

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
510
Administration. This question paper will be prepared so as to test
the knowledge of contents in all the chapters of the Financial
Regulations and the Establishments code. The minimum of 40% of
the total marks should be scored to get through the examination.
08. Method of Recruitment.– Qualified applicants will be called
for a structural interview and thereby selected, based on the marking
scheme approved by the Public Service Commission.
09. Conditions of Appointment and Service.– This post is
permanent and pensionable. Appointees are required to contribute
to the widows’ and orphans’/widowers’ and orphan’s pension fund.
Successful candidates will be subject to rules in the Establishments
Code, the Financial Regulations, Departmental orders and any other
regulations or orders already issued or issued from time to time by the
Government.
Provisions in paragraph from 10 to 12 in chapter II of the
Establishment code will also apply.
10. Applicants should submit photo copies of the following documents
along with the application. (Original copies should not be submitted)
(i) Certificate of Birth
(ii)Certificate in support of educational qualifications
(iii)Certificate in support of Professional qualifications
(iv) Certificate relating to service experince
(v) National Identity Card
11. Applicants who are already in the public service should submit
their applications through the respective Heads of institutions. A
certificate should be annexed indicating that the applicant can be
released from the service if he/she is selectd to the post.
12. Applications along with the relevant certifictes should be
sent by registerd post to the address referred to in paragraph 2
above.
13. Applications which  do not conform to requirements in all
respect in this notice will be rejected and such applicants will not be
called for the interview.
14. No travelling or other expenses will be paid to the applicants
summoned for the interview.
By order of public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Urban Development
and Sacred Area Development.
M
INISTRY  OF  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AND  SACRED  AREA  DEVELOPMENT
NATIONAL  PHYSICAL  PLANNING  DEPARTMENT
Post of Deputy Director General (Implementation and Co-ordination)
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
01. Full Name :———.
Name (with initials) :———.
02. Address :———.
03. Date of Birth :———.
Year :———, Month :———, Date :———.
Age Ast at.... 2007 :———.
Years : ——, Months : ——, Days :——.
04. Sex :———.
05. Whether Married or Single :———.
06. Place of work and Employment :———.
07. Educational Qualifications :———.
08. Professional and other Qualifications. :———.
I hereby certify that the above particulars true and correct.
———,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
06-113/1
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL
TRAINING
Admission for National Certificate in Information
and Communication Technology (NCICT)
Programs - Year 2007
1. NATIONAL Certificate in Information and Communication
Technology (NCICT) is to be commenced on July 2007 at the following
IT Centers. The total course fees is Rs. 5,000 and the duration of the
course is six months (full time basis).
Course fee can be paid in installments.
2. Minimum Entry Qualifications :
Educational Qualifications :
(i) should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) examination in 06
Subjects with 02 Credit Passes for English and Mathematics
in not more than 2 sittings ; or
(ii)Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06
subjects with 04 Credit Passes for any subject and 02

<!-- page 7 -->

511 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
simple Passes for English and Mathematics in not more
than 2 sittings ; or
(iii)Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06
subjects with 03 Credit Passes for any subject and 02
simple passes for English and Mathematics and also should
have 02 simple passes for any subject at the G. C. E.
(A/L) Examination in not more than 02 sittings.
Age Limit.– Age should be not less than 16 years and not more
than 25 years as at 30th of June, 2007.
3. Selection will be done through an aptitude test and interview.
4. List of centers in which the NCICT Program will be conducted
in given  below . Please indicate the centre of your choice with the
relevant institution.
5. Applications prepared as per the specimen application form in
A4 size paper (8.4" x 11.8") should be sent on or before 22nd of june,
2007 to the address, which is indicated the Cage next to your  choice.
Please indicate the title “National Certificate in Information and
Communication Technology” in the top left hand corner of the
envelope.
Chairman,
V ocational Training Authority of
Sri Lanka and IT Action Committee.
For Office use only
MINISTRY OF VOCA TIONAL AND
TECHNICAL TRAINING
N
ATIONAL  CERTIFICATE  IN INFORMATION  AND  COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY  (NCICT) SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM  - JULY  2007)
01. Name with initials :———.
(Write in Block Letters) :———.
02. Name in full :———.
03. Permanent Address :———.
04. District :———.
05. Sex :———.
06. Date of Birth :———.
Year :———, Month :———, Date :———.
07. Age as at 30th June, 2007 :
Years : ———, Months : ———, Days:———.
08. Number of the National Identity Card and the Date issued :——.
No :––––––––. Date Issued :–––––––––.
09. Selected V ocational Training Centre :
Institution Centre
10. Education Qualifications :
i. G. C. E. (O/L) Results/Index No :———. Year :———.
Subject Grade
ii. G. C. E. (A/L) Results :
Index No :———. Year :———.
Subject Grade
I do hereby certify that the above information in correct and
accurate to the best of my knowledge. I agree that if the information
submitted by me is false or inaccurate I am liable to be dismissed
from my studentship.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :———.
06-120/1
MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE & NUTRITION
RECRUITMENT OF PUPIL NURSES – 2007 (TAMIL
MEDIUM)
APPLICATIONS  are invited from the unmarried citizens of Sri Lanka
with following qualifications for recruitment as Pupil Nurses under the
Department of Health Services. (The Number of recruitments of males
will be based on the requirements of Institutions under the Control of
the Ministry.)
01. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Passed G. C. E (A/L) Examination in Tamil Medium year
2006 with minimum of 03 subjects from the Science stream
of subjects.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
512
(b) Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Tamil Medium with
six subjects at not more than two sittings, with credit passes
for 04 subjects including Tamil, Mathematics and Science.
The certified Photostat copies of the certificate of the above
two examinations should be attached to the application to
confirm the educational qualifications.
02. Other Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 and not more 30 years of age as
at 22.06.2007.
(b) Height should be not less than 04 feet 10 inches.
(c) Should be unmarried.
(d) Should be physically fit and willing to serve in Northern &
Eastern Province of the island.
(e) Certified copies of the voters list should be sent along with
the application to prove 03 years residence within the district
applied for by the candidate. If the name of the applicant is
not available in the voters list, the names of his/her, parents
should be available in the voters list.
In order to confirm the names of the parents, a certified
copy of the Certificate of Birth of the applicant should be
sent along with the application.
Only those applicants who satisfy the above qualifications
will be called for the interview. The required number will be
selected at district level based on the merit order of marks
secured at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
03. Method of application :
(a) Application should be prepared using both sides of a paper
in the size of 8 1/2 x 13 1/2 on the form of specimen
appended to this notice. The section 01-08 should appear
on page No. 01 section 09 page No. 02 and section 10 - 13
page No. 03 as per given in the specimen form of application.
(b) Application duly perfected should be sent under Registered
Cover to reach the Director (Admn) 01, Ministry of
Healthcare & Nutrition, No. 385, “Suwasiripaya”,
Bddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on
or before 22.06.2007. The words “Recruitment to the Pupil
Nurses Training 2007 (Tamil Medium)” should be already
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing
applications. Applications received late will be rejected while
the department will not take this responsibility of any lost or
delay of applications in the post.
The signature of the application should be attested by an
officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountant Services/Principal of a
Government School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law
or by an officer in the public service holding a post with an
initial salary not less than Rs. 80,160.
(c) Should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 100 in the stamp
cage provided in the application and cancel the stamps by
placing the applicant’s signature on it.
04. Scheme of Training :
(a) The selected applicants will be admitted to the nursing training
school as pupil nurses and they should follow the training
course for 03 years in Tamil language medium.
(b) The trainees at the time of admission to the training will be
provided with rules and regulations are force within the school
of training. They are bound by these rules and regulations
and also by an other rules and regulations which would be
enforced from time to time.
(c) The trainees who are unsuccessful at the prescribed
examinations or whose work and conduct are found to be
unsatisfactory or who failed to comply with the examinations
and leave regulations of the school of which they are assigned
during the period of training are liable to be discontinued
from training at any time without payment of any
compensation. The trainees will not entitle for any type of
leave during the training period and deductions will be made
from the monthly allowance in the proportion with the month
of days absent from training. However it is compulsory to
mark 80% of attendance each year to become qualify to sit
for the examination.
(d) The trainees during the period of training in a school nursing
will be paid an allowance as follows.
1st Year - Rs. 12,920 (per month)
2nd Year - Rs. 13,040 (per month)
3rd Year - Rs. 13,160 (per month)
The trainees who pass the final examination, after successful
completion of training, they will be appointed to the post of
staff nurse Grade II seg. “B” by the Director General of
Health Services on the relevant salary scales defending on
the availability of vacancies of the post.
(e) The trainee should pay to the Department all the allowances
paid to him/her and the all expenses incurred by the
government for training on his/her behalf within the period
of training, provided he/she withdrew or vacated from
training during the period of training.
05. Condition and the agreement of remaining unmarried :
(a) All applicants should be unmarried at the time of submitting
their applications and it is compulsory that they should remain
unmarried, during the period of 03 years training. A
certificate obtained from the Grama Niladhari countersigned
by the Divisional Secretary confirming the status of being
unmarried should be send along with the application.
(b) The pupil nurses at the time of admission to the nurse’s
training school should enter into an agreement with the

<!-- page 9 -->

513 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
Director General of Health Services that they complete
the training successfully and serve the Department of
Health Services minimum of 10 years after completion of
training. The Director General of Health Services will decide
on this period from time to time.
06. Term of engagement :
(a) The post of staff nurse to which the pupil nurses are
appointed on the results of the final examination conducted
at the end of the training is pensionable and contribution
should be made to the contributory pension scheme.
(b) The appointment to the post of staff nurse Grade II Seg.
“B” will be subject on the 3 years probation.
07. Service conditions :
(a) All the trainees before commencement of the training school
should undergo a medical examination.
(b) Appointment will be given to the vacancies existing in the
post of nursing officer Grade II seg. “B” on the salary scale
of Rs. 15,080-5x150-9x240-7x240-20x320-Rs. 26,420
General Circular letter No. 6/2006)
(c) All the officers in the nursing service are subject to the
provisions in the establishment code of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Transfers implemented in
terms of policies stipulated by the Department of Health
Services, Financial and the other regulations and to the other
rules and regulations enforced by the Government by time
to time.
Dr. H. A. P. K
AHANDALIYANAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
Application for the Recruitment for the Pupil Nurses
Training-2007 (Tamil Medium)
01. (a) Name with initials (in English capitals) :
(b) Name in full (in English capitals) :
02. Postal Address :
03. (a) Permanent Address :
(b) District :
04. Date of Birth :–––––––––.
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
05. Male/Female : Mark in the relevant cage :
Male
Female
06. Whether Citizen of Sri Lanka : Mark in the relevant cage :
Yes
No
07. National Identity Card No :
08. Height :
Feet :––––––––. Inches :–––––––––.
09. (a) General Certificate of Education (Advance Level)
Examination (Science Stream of Subjects) (Please attach a
copy of the mark sheet)
Year :––––––––. Index No :––––––––.
Subject Grade For OfficeSubject Grade For Office
use only use only
1. 3.
2. 4.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :
(ii)Index No. :
(iii)First Sitting :
Subject Grade For OfficeSubject Grade For Office
use only use only
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
(iv) Second Sitting : Index No. : ––––––––.
Subject Grade For OfficeSubject Grade For Office
use only use only
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
10. Have you been found guilty for any charge by a Court of Law ?
Yes
No
If ‘yes’ please give details :

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
514
11. Please indicate in order of your preference the School of Nursing
you are willing to undergo training you were selected for Pupils
Nurse’s Training :
(Preference may be marked numerically as 1, 2)
School of Nursing Jaffna
School of Nursing Batticaloa
12. (a) I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to my knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained there in
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification before selection and to dismissal, if it is
discovered so after appointment.
Affix stamps to the value Rs. 100 and
cancel same by signing over it.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
13. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant ……………………………
is personally known by me and he/she is placed his/her signature in
my presence on …………… day of ……………………… 2007.
––––––––––––,
Attester’s Signature.
Full Name of the Attesting Officer :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
06-04
MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND
TECHNICAL TRAINING
Admission for National Diploma in Information and
Communication Technology (NDICT)
Programs - Year 2007
1. NATIONAL Diploma in Information and Communication Technol-
ogy (NDICT) is to be commenced on July 2007 at the following IT
Center.
The total course fee is Rs. 12,000 and the duration of the course
is one Year (full time basis).
Course fee can be paid in installments.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA
Centre Mailing Address
National Information and Training Manager, National IT
Communication. Centre, No. 354, Elvitigala
Technology Training Centre, Mw., Narahenpita,
Narahenpita. Colombo 05.
2. Minimum Entry Qualifications :
(1) Holder of NCICT ; or
(2) Six passes in not more than two sittings with credits for
English and Mathematics in GCE (O/L) ; and
any full time six months computer certificate course, which
should include following areas :
(1) Computer Basics (DOS, Windows, Principles of
Networking, Hardware),
(2) Office Automation (Word Processing, Spread Sheets,
Presentation software and Database software),
(3) Internet and WWW with HTML programming,
(4) System Analysis and Design.
Age Limit.– Age should not be less than 18 years and not
more than 30 years as at 30th June  2007.
(3) Selection will be done through an aptitude test  and an
interview.
(4) Application prepared as per specimen application form
in A4 size paper (8.4’ X 11.8” ) should be sent on or
before 22nd June, 2007 to the address, which is
indicated next to the centre of first preference. Please
indicate the title “National Diploma in Information and
Communication Technology” in the top left hand corner
of the envelope.
Chairman,
V ocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka
and IT Action Committee.
17th May, 2007.

<!-- page 11 -->

515 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
For office use only
M INISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
ADMISSION  FOR  NATIONAL  DIPLOMA  IN INFORMATION  AND  COMMUNICA TION
TECHNOLOGY  (NDICT ) SPECIMEN  APPLICA TION  FORM   — JULY  2007
01. Name with initials :–––––––––.
(Write in Block Letters)
02. Name in full :–––––––––.
03. Permanent Address :–––––––––.
04. District :–––––––––.
05. Sex :–––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
07. Age as at 30th June, 2007 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Number of the National Identity Card and the Date
issued :––—.
09. Selected V ocational Training Centre :
Institution Centre
10. Centre at which NCICT/any other six months computer course
followed :–––––––––.
11. Index No. of Final NCICT Exam (if any) :–––––––––.
Grade obtained (if any) :
12. Educational Qualifications :
I. G.C.E. (O/L) Results, Index No :––––––, Year :––––––.
Subject Grade
II. G.C.E. (A/L) Results, Index No :––––––, Year :––––––.
Subject Grade
The Information given above is true and correct.
–––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
CENTRES UNDER THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA (VTASL)
Centre                       Mailing Address
01. National Information and Communication Technology Training Manager, National IT Centre, No. 354, Elvitigala Mw.,
Training Centre, Narahenpita.  Narahenpita, Colombo 5.
02. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Rattanapitiya Assistant Director, Colombo District Office, V ocational
Training Authority of Sri Lanka, YMBA Building, Sarana
Road, Welikada, Rajagiriya.
03. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Talbot Town, Galle
04. District V ocational Training Centre, Elpitiya
05. National IT Centre, Baddegama
06. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Thawalama Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Office,
07. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Yakkalamulla Talbot Town, Galle.
08. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Koggala Assistant  Director, District Vocational Training Centre,
09. District V ocational Training Centre, Thalalla, Kottegoda  Pantaramaya, Pahala Peakwella, Matara.
10. Rural V ocational Training Centre,, Y . M.B.A. Building, KandyAssistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training
Authority of Sri Lanka Gannoruwa Road, Peradeniya.
11. Rural Vocational Training Centre, Kotabogoda, Kadugannawa
12. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Peradeniya

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
516
13. District V ocational Training Centre, Veyangoda Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, V oca-
tional Training Authority of Sri Lanka, V eyangoda.
14. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Yatiyana
15. Rural Vocational Training Centre, Thumbagoda, Balangoda Assistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training Authority
of Sri Lanka Panawenna, Kahawatta.
16. District V ocational Training Centre, Inamaluwa, Dambulla Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
17. Rural Vocational Training Centre, Minneriya Inamaluwa, Dambulla.
18. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Ella Road, Wellawaya Assistant Director, District Office, V ocational Training Author-
ity of Sri Lanka, Niwasa Adikariya Road, Monaragala.
19. Rural Vocational Training Centre, Iginiyagala Road, Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, MACFA
Ampara, (Sinhala Medium) Garment Factory Building, Akkareipattu Road, Nindaur.
20. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Karativu (Tamil Medium)
21. Rural V ocational Training Centre,  Sahindama
22. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Akkareipattu
23. District V ocational Training Centre, Vandaramulai Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
(Tamil Medium)  V andaramulai, Batticaloa.
24. District V ocational Training Centre, Ambegoda, Bandarawela Assistant Director, District Office Training Centre, V ocational
25. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Rock Hill, Badulla Training Authority of Sri Lanka, Abegoda, Bandarawela.
26. District V ocational Training Centre, Mirijjawila, Hambanthota Assistant Director, District V ocational  Training Centre,
27. Rural Vocational Training Centre, Weeraketiya Henakaduwa Sri Sudharshanaramaya, Tangalle.
28. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Rambewa, Mihintale
29. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Kantale Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre, Kandy
30. Regional IT Centre, Kandy Lake Road, Anuradhapura Lake Road, Anuradhapura.
31. Rural V ocational Training Centre,, Murunkan (Mannar)
32. District V ocational Training Centre, Ballapana, Galigamuwa Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Ballapana, Galigamuwa.
33. District Vocational Training Centre, Horana Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Wewala, Horana
34. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Bingiriya Assistant Director, District Vocational Training Centre,
Saragama, Kurunegala.
35. District V ocational Training Centre, Marawila Assistant Director, District V ocational Training Centre,
Chillaw Road, Marawila
36. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Kilinochchi District Secretary (GA) District Secretariat Office, Kilinochchi.
Centers under the National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA)
Centre                       Mailing Address
37. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Medawachchiya Province Director, “NAITA”, North Central Province Office,
38. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Polonnaruwa 525/2, Maithreepala Senanayaka Mawatha, 2nd Stage,
Rathnayakapura. Anuradhapura.
39. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Jaffna
40. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Vaddukodai Province Director, “NAITA”, Northern Province Office, No. 7,
41. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, V avuniya Temple Road, Jaffna
Centre                       Mailing Address

<!-- page 13 -->

517 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
42. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, AETI, Orugodawatte Director Principal, AETI, 07, Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Orugodawatta, Wellampitiya.
43. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Matara Province Director,  “NAITA”, Southern Province Office, 27/A,.
44. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Elpitiya Open University Avenue Nupe, Matara
45. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Katugastota Province Director, “NAITA”, Central Province Office, 108/2B,
46. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Hatton Thiwankabodhi Mawatha, Kandy
47. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Beruwala Province Director, “NAITA”, Western Province Office, 242,
Havelock Road, Colombo 05.
48. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Embilipitiya
49. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Mawanella Province Director, “NAITA”, Sabaragamuwa Province Office,
50. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Yatiyantota College Avenue, New Town, Ratnapura.
51. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Trincomalee Province Manager, “NAITA”, Eastern Province Office, No. 07,
G.S. Lane, Kalmunaikudi - 13, Kalmunai
52. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,  Badulla Province Manager, “NAITA”,  Uva Province Office, No. 288,
Kumarasinghe Mawatha, Off Passara Road, Badulla.
53. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA,   MadampeProvince Manager, “NAITA”, Northern Western  Province Office,
54. Computer Apprentice Training Centre, NAITA, Galgamuwa Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala
Centers under the Department of Technical Education and Training  (DTET)
Centre                       Mailing Address
55. Technical College, Kegalle Principal, Technical College, Kachcheri Road, Kegalle,
56. Technical College, Maradana Principal, Technical College, Olcott Mawatha Maradana Col. 10
57. Technical College, Aruppola Principal, Technical College, Aruppola, Kandy
58. Technical College, Rathnapura Principal, Technical College, Farm Garden, Colombo Road,
Ratnapura
59. Technical College, Galle Principal, Technical College, Kaluwella, Galle
60. Technical College, Matara Principal, Technical College, Meddewatta Matara
Centers under the National Youth Services Council (NYSC)
Centre                       Mailing Address
61. V ocational Training Centre, National Youth Centre, Maharagama O.I.C. National Youth Centre, 65, High Level Road, Maharagama
62. Rikillagaskada Youth Empowerment Centre, Nuwara-Eliya O.I.C. Rikillagaskada Training Centre, National Youth Services
Council, Rikillagaskada
63. V ocational Training Centre, Kurunegala O.I.C. District Office, National Youth Services Council,
Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala
64. V ocational Training Centre,Makola Manager, Korea-Lanka Friendship Technical Training Institute,
National Youth Services Council, Sapugaskanda, Makola
65. V ocational Training Centre, Naula O.I.C. Naula Training Centre, National Youth Services Council,
Divisional Secretariat, Office, Arangala, Naula
Centre                       Mailing Address

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
518
66. V ocational Training Centre,Chilaw O.I.C. Distrcit Office, National Youth Services Council, Ananda
Mawatha, Chilaw
67. V ocational Training Centre, Moneragala O.I.C. Moneragala V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services Council, Praja Shalawa Road, Kachcheriya
Junction, Moneragala.
68. V ocational Training Centre, Kobawaka O.I.C. Kobawaka V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services Council, Kobawaka Govinna
69. V ocational Training Centre, Ratmalana O.I.C. Ratmalana Vocational Training Centre, Railway Station
Road, Ratmalana
70. V ocational Training Centre, Dehiwala O.I.C. Dehiwala V ocational Training Centre, National Y outh
Services Council, Palliya Dora Road, Kawdana Dehiwala
71. V ocational Training Centre, Akuressa O.I.C. Akuressa V ocational Training Centre, National Youth
Services Council, Thibbotuwawa, Akuressa
06-120/2
Centre                       Mailing Address

<!-- page 15 -->

519 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertise-
ments.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the
Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 51 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 51 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in schedule of
Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months so as
to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 31 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 11 0 5 0
(B) Section I 10 0 5 0
Section II 12 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road, Colombo 01, who
is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.01
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.06.2007
520
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if
publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road,
Colombo 01.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications
Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2007
JUNE 01.06.2007 Friday –– 18.05.2007 Friday 12 noon
08.06.2007 Friday –– 25.05.2007 Friday 12 noon
15.06.2007 Friday –– 01.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
22.06.2007 Friday –– 08.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
29.06.2007 Friday –– 15.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
JULY 06.07.2007 Friday — 22.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
13.07.2007 Friday –– 29.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
20.07.2007 Friday –– 06.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
27.07.2007 Friday –– 13.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 03.08.2007 Friday — 20.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
10.08.2007 Friday –– 27.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
17.08.2007 Friday –– 03.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
24.08.2007 Friday –– 10.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
31.08.2007 Friday –– 17.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.