

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1764$14 - 2012 cqks ui 27 jeks nodod - 2012'06'27
No. 1764/14 -  WEDNESDAY ,   JUNE  27,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
WESTERN    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Preventing Public Health Nuisances in the Western Province Statute No. 03 of 2012
I hereby inform that the Western Province Provincial Council Preventing Public Health Nuisances No. 03 of 2012, which was
passed at the Western Province Provincial Council meeting held on 20.03.2012 and which has received the assent of the Hon.
Acting Governor, Western Province on 21.06.2012 is being implemented with effect from 21.06.2012.
J
AGATH ANGAGE,
Minister of Health, Indigenous Medicine,
Social Welfare and Women Affairs Probation
and Child care and Council Affairs - Western Province.
Independence Square,
Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Social Welfare and Women Affairs,
Probation and Child care Council Affairs,
Western Province,
Colombo 07,
22nd June, 2012.
STATUTE   OF   PREVENTING    PUBLIC    HEALTH   NUISANCES   OF   THE   WESTERN
PROVINCE   COUNCIL    No.  03   OF   2012
This Statute is for planning the rules and regulations to uplift and conserve the public health,
prevent the nuisances and diseases spreading through mosquitoes, control other public healthnuisances
and matter related or consequential to them. The Statute is unincompatible to the nuisances Activity
Ordinance Act, No. 15 of 1882 amended by Act, No. 61 of 1939 and Act, No. 57 of 1946 and Breeding of
Mosquito and Prevention of breeding of Mosquito Act, No. 11 of 2007.
The powers vested by law on the provincial Administrative Institutions will not be deprived or
limited by this Statute.
The Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka declares
as follows:
Long Name
Short Title and
date of
implementation.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
2A
01. This Statute will be called as the Statute of Preventing Public Health Nuisances of the Western
Provincial Council No. 03 of 2012 and it will be effective from the date of assent by the Governor.
That date should be notified through a Gazette Notification by the Minister.
02. Under this Statute, the actions stated below are offences:
(a) Throwing or depositing or allowing to enter animal excreta or any filthy dirt, garbage or
anything that emits a bad smell or something that is unclean or that emits bad smell or
allowing to flow from or wash out from or enter from their house or building or land or
allowing any amount of similar water to become unclean or polluted into any drain, moat,
waterway, lake, reservoir, water well, water vessel, flowing water or irrigation by any person.
(b) Keeping or allowing to keep things such as an animal, excreta, meat, fish, fruits or vegetable
that are unsuitable for human consumption in a market, shop, building, bazaar, a place used
to sell meat, birds such as chicken, fish, fruits or vegetable or keeping or allowing to  keep in
any such place or street by any person.
(c) By any person, selling or presenting or publicly displaying anything that is in a unsuitable
condition to be used as human food or drink or knowing that it is in a unsuitable condition
or with the belief that there is reason for it to be unsuitable.
(d) Any person throwing or putting or causing his/her servant to do so, any soil, waste water
or rubbish or dirt or ash or broken glass or earthenware pots or any other debris or any
article or material or liquid in such a manner that it is a hindrance to the health, on to a road
or public place or to a by-road or drain.
(e) Washing vehicles on a main road, street, highway, foot path or an entry road using water
from water mass/column or water well or any source of water, by any person, in such a
manner that it makes them unclean or is a nuisance to the public health.
(f) Causing or allowing any animal or animals to pass faeces or urinate, by any person, on any
main road, highway, street, foot path, entry road or public place.
(g) Allowing to keep any rubbish, animal parts, litter or any other thing that emits noxious smell
or stench, without depositing it in a relevant vessel or in a place well covered, keeping such
vessel in a state of loath some or stench or neglecting without taking suitable action to
dispose the things from it and clean it by any person who resides in a house, building or
land or else in a road, street or main road, or near such a place in a populated area.
(h) Keeping or allowing to keep a place unclean or in a manner detrimental or bothersome to the
health of any person or allowing such a place to be overgrown with plants in a manner
bothersome to public health by the owner of a rentable or non-rentable house, building or
land situated by a side of certain road, street or highway or by any person residing in such
a place.
(i) Keeping a moat or stream or drain or cess pit or any such vessel or place that is detrimental
to the public health within or on the surface of any house, building or land by a person
residing in or owning such a place.
(j) Rearing cattle, goats, swines, chicken, ducks, turkeys  and other birds against formal standards
imposed by the rules and regulations, ordnance acts, Statutes or conditions in such a
manner that is a nuisance or detrimental to the public or the health of any person.
Putting waste
material into
water.
Selling harmful
things as food.
Keeping things
that are
unsuitable for
human
consumption
for selling.
Throwing
garbage on to a
road or drain or
public place.
Washing
vehicles.
Animals defiling
an entry road or
public places.
Keeping garbage
or any such
thing.
Keeping a place
unclean.
Loathsome
drain that emits
bad smell.
Rearing animals
such as cattle,
goats, pigs etc.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
(k) Any person, whoever he/she may, who owns a house, building or a parapet wall leaving it in
a crumbling state or leaving a house or a building in a state of risk to the persons residing in
them or to the houses and buildings in the neighbourhood or to those who reside in them or
passers-by.
(l) Allowing waste or stagnated water to be in a place inside one’s place of living or allowing
toilet or cess pit material to overflow or to leak out by any person.
(m) Eventhough under a licence obtained from a relevant authority utilizing any place situated
within the area of authority of the Western Province Provincial Council for certain workshop
or place of business in a manner detrimental to public health or violating the conditions
stated in that licence.
(n) Keeping or leaving in any place any article, material or liquid by any person in such manner
that it is an obstacle to anyone or hindrance to the health of anyone.
(o) Anyone making amplifications, broadcasts, or transmits very loud sound through sound
systems or television or any other media in any residential area, commercial place or an open
place where there is movement of people in such a manner that it is a hindrance to the public.
(
p) Anyone, in a private residence, amplifying, broadcasting, or transmitting very loud sound
through a sound system, radio, television or cassette player or any such appliance in such
a manner that it is a hindrance to the neighbouring residential places in that environment.
(q) Engaging in trade activities, production food items, engaging in technical activities,
involvement in industrial work, conducting a industry or acting in such a manner that it
generates sound that is oppressive to residential places, schools, hospitals or other places
where people live or where there is movement of people or doing any other thing which
creates oppressive sound, which is detrimental to public health by any individual in a house
or trade place or hostel or restaurant in any environment.
When deciding the sound levels for the sub clauses (o),(p) and (q) sound limits imposed by
the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and subsequent amendments to the said act.
(r) Carrying out unauthorised construction, repairing motor vehicles or machinery or storing,
depositing or putting building materials, damaged materials or timber or sown wood or any
type of material by any individual on the main roads, streets, highways, foot paths, sidewalks
or drain maintained in relation to the roads in a manner that obstructs them.
(s) Putting or allowing to flow waste water or toilet and/or urinal waste that is disposed from any
private or public premises, by any person, on to a main road, street, highway, foot path,
access road, or into a drain of such or a land adjacent to a public place.
(t) Creating an obstacle on a water way that is a natural path of draining of water.
03. (1) Any person, whoever he/she may, engaging in any of the offences stated above in Sub
clauses a, b, c, d, e and f  of Clause 2 will be an offender under this Statute,
Leaving houses
etc. in a
dilapidated state
or to
dilapidation:
Allowing waste
or stagnated
water to
stagnate further
.
Keeping waste
material in such
a manner that
they are
detrimental to
health.
Keeping a
workshop in
such a manner
that it is
detrimental to
public health.
Creating
hindrance
through radio or
any other
media.
Oppressions
created through
sound.
Engaging in
trade activities
in a manner that
generates sound.
Obstructing
drains and roads.
Allowing waste
water and toilet
water to flow.
Ability to impose
a fine for some
offences shown
under Clause 2.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
4A
(2) According the above Sub Clause 1 any person guilty of any offence, when found guilty after a
summary trial in the presence of a magistrate, the magistrate could order fine of not less
than Rupees Five Thousand and not more than Rupees Twenty Five Thousand.
(3) The amount imposed as a fine in the clause 3(2) above shall be credited to the Provincial Council
Fund by the Magistrate.
04. (1) According to the rules and regulations stated under  the Sub Clauses h, i, j, k, l, m, n, o,p, q, r, s,
t of the  above Clause 2, on the occasion  if  the relevant officer or the authorised officer finds
that in any premises or anything that is kept or being maintained there is detrimental  to the
public health  then the relevant officer or the authorised officer  could order through awritten
notice to the owner or  the resident or the caretaker of that premises to  follow or take one or
more of the steps stated in  that  written notice within the period stated specifically in that
notice.
(a) To maintaining cleanly a house, building or land located in any street, highway or public
road or in the neighbourhood of such a place  in such a manner that it is not detrimental
to the health of any person.
(b) To remove from that place a moat, a gutter, a drain, a pit, cesspit or any such thing or a
vessel which emits bad odour that is detrimental to public health or arranging such a
place in a manner that is not oppressive to the  public.
(c) To rear cattle, goats, pigs, ducks, turkeys or other birds in such a manner that is not
detrimental to public health.
(d) To arrange or remove a dilapidated house, building or parapet wall so that it will not be a
danger to the residents or the neighbours.
(e) To remove or not construct any fence, parapet wall, concrete or iron covering on any
street, road, path or public drain in a manner obstructing that street, road, path or drain,
(f) To avoid allowing waste or polluted water to  stagnate in any place within the place by
anyone residing in that place or stop the material in a toilet or a cesspit overflowing or
leaking out.
(g) To take appropriate steps to maintain the functioning of any  workshop or business place
without being oppressive to public health.
(h) To keep any article, material or liquid in a  manner that it will not be oppressive or  hindrance
to public health.
(i) To stop broadcasts, transmits or amplifying with high sound, through a sound system,
television or any other electronic media, in an open place where people move about or in
a place of business,  in a manner that it is oppressive to the public.
(j) To stop broadcasting or transmitting or  amplifying sound through a sound system,
radio, television or CD player or any such  appliance with high sound within any  private
residential  place which is  oppressive to neighbouring residential  places of that premises.
(k) To not engage in trade activities, production of food, engage in industrial activities,
doing workshop work or conducting an industry, which generates oppressive sound to
Ability to order
to take some
action relevant
to avoid
hindrance to
public health.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
residential place, school, hospital or other places where people live or move about or
stop such other activity that generates any oppressive sound.
(l) To remove any unauthorised construction that obstructs a main road, road, footpath,
sidewalk or a drain maintained in relation to a road, or not to store or deposit or place
building material, damaged material, block of wood or sown wood or timber or not to
carryout repairing of  motor vehicles and machinery.
(m) To not put or allow overflowing of waste water or toilet or urinal wastes discharged
from any  private or public premises on to any main  road, road, footpath, entry road or
the drain in  that road or public place or adjoining land.
(n) Not to create obstruction or to remove  obstruction to the flow of water along the
natural waterway that is there to allow water to flow.
(2) As per above stated sub clause1 of clause 4 of this Statue, any person who violating the
orders or neglecting to comply to the orders of; prevent from carrying out or  remove or stop
certain nuisance or thing which is detrimental to public health shall be an offender under this
statute.
(3) Any person who is guilty of an offence according to  the above Sub Clause 2 will be
subjected to a  punishment under Clause 8 of this Statute.
05. Owner/resident and/or caretaker of every premises should take the following actions to assure the
actions of  preventing and removing all diseases bred by mosquitoes and destroying and removing
the breeding places of mosquitoes.
(1) To removeor destroy open tins, bottles, boxes, coconut shells, coconut husks, tyre or other
material or vessel containing water, which are contained in or within certain premises, or
dispose them usefully and safely in any other way in a manner water will not stagnate .
(2) Removing all obstacles so that water could flow well  in rain gutters, gutters, pipes through
which water flows or drains.
(3) Maintaining in a good state the water vessels, water tanks, refrigerators,air conditioners or
any other  vessels in which water is stored or stagnated by  keeping them closed or covered
in order to prevent breeding of mosquitoes.
(4) By maintaining any water well situated in the premises and its surrounding in a good state,
maintaining it in manner that mosquitoes cannot breed and through this preventing
breeding of mosquitoes.
(5) Keeping any artificial pond, water reservoir or pond in  any premises in a manner that
mosquitoes cannot breed.
(6) Removing the shrubs and plants that is congenial for  water to stagnate in a manner that
mosquitoes could  breed and any thicket and all kinds of plants that have become a place for
water to stagnate in a place whether it is situated inside or outside of any building  or
structure that is located in any premises used as a residential place or suitably removing
that danger.
(7) Removing or preventing  any other background within or inside the premises that is congenial
for breeding of mosquitoes.
Non compliance
to orders
stipulated under
sub clause 4(i)
being an
offence.
Process of
preventing
diseases and
oppressions
spread by
mosquitoes.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
6A
(8) In a premises where construction is being carried  out, maintaining that premises in a manner
that  mosquitoes will not breed there and in buildings that  are with a concrete roof, that roof
should be maintained in such a manner that in no way water  should stagnate on it.
(9) Maintaining without cavities by sealing water drainage pits or septic tanks of a premises so
as mosquitoes breeding therein cannot come out, or prevent from using iron or P.V .C pipes
on  those pits that allow harmful air to emit.
06. (1) In any premises stated in the above Sub Clause 1 of Clause 5, on occasion when the relevant
officer or the authorised officer finds that mosquito larvae have been bred within that
environment in open tin, bottle, box, coconut shell, coconut husk or any other articles or
article where water is stagnated, when the owner,resident or caretaker of the place where the
offence has taken place accepts that offence, then on his wish instead of filing charges in
the presence of a magistrate, the authorised officer could impose a spot fine of not less than
Rupees Five Hundred and not more than Rupees Three Thousand in the presence of any
Government Officer. The owner or the resident of that place should remove or destroy the
vessel or the article that is full of water which contains or not contains mosquito larva, in the
presence of the relevant officer or the authorised officer.
(2) The spot fine stated in 6(1) should be paid to a government post office situated in the
authority area  of the Western Province Provincial Council and a receipt should be obtained
and that receipt should be submitted to the Health Officer of that division within 10 days. If
it is not carried out, it is compulsory to file legal action against him/her in a magistrate
court.
(3) The spot fine stated in 6(1) should be paid to the  General Fund of the Western Province
Provincial Council.
(4) Those who do not adhere to the order stated in the  above Sub Clause 1 of the Clause 5 and
the places shown by the Sub Clauses 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 the owners or residents of all
premises, where breeding of mosquito larvae is allowed and where mosquito larvae have
been bred, be presented to the magistrate court of that division and filing action is
compulsory according to the Clause 8 of this Statute.
07. According to the rules and regulations stated in the above Clause 5, on the occasion when the
relevant authority or the  authorised officer finds that in any premises or anything  that has been
kept there or maintained there is congenial to breeding of mosquitoes, the relevant authority or
authorised  office could order the owner, resident or caretaker through a written notice to follow or
to take necessary action on, within the specifically stated period in that notice, one or more of  the
following actions:
(1) To repair so as to properly let water to flow in rain gutters, gutters, pipes or drains, located
within certain premises or certain building contained therein and are filled with water making
those places congenial to breeding of mosquitoes.
(2) To maintain in good condition the water vessel or a tank to collect rain water, water tank,
refrigerator, air conditioner or any other vessel for collecting water in certain premises by
keeping it closed and covered and to construct or repair so that the water in it could be
disposed from time to time.
(3) Removing the water from a tank that collects rain  water, water tank or artificial pond or
reservoir, in any  premises cleaning them, and when they are not  used anymore, to close
them by the owner or the  resident.
Ability to
impose a  spot
fine on the
occasion of
finding that
there are
mosquito larvae.
Legal action
may be taken
for defaulted
spot fine
payments.
Ability to order
the owner or
resident to take
specific action.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
(4) To maintain any water well in the environment in  such  manner to prevent breeding of
mosquitoes.
(5) To fill up any excavation pit that allows collection of water  and pollute it, unused water well,
cess pit, pond or any other place, removing the water from them or take other suitable action
for it.
(6) To remove the water from marshy land, watercourses and places where water stagnates in
any premises or removing the danger by biological methods;
(7) To remove, pluck off and destroy water plants or any  other  plant or plants that could hold
water that have   been found to facilitate breeding of mosquitoes;
(8) To maintain a premises where construction is in progress or the buildings with concrete roof
in such a manner that water will not stagnate to breed mosquitoes.
(9) Maintaining without cavities by sealing water drainage pits or septic tanks of a premises so
as mosquitoes breeding therein cannot come out, or prevent from fixing iron or P.V .C. pipes
on the concrete slabs that cover those pits.
(10) To take any other steps those are considered necessary by the authority or authorized
officer;
08. (1) Any person who does the offence shown under the Clause 2 of this Statute or violates any
order or  orders, imposed by the 5 th Clause of this Statute or  violates the order made
according to the Clause 4 and/or 7 or neglects to act accordingly to it, or any  person stated
in Sub Clause 4 of Clause 6 is guilty of an offence under this Statute,
(2) Any person, who is accused of any offence according to the above Sub Clause (1), after a
summary trial in the presence of a magistrate, when found guilty of the offence, is subject to
a punishment as stated below:
(a) If that offence is done for the first time the magistrate  could impose a fine of not less
than Rupees Three Thousand and not more than Rupees Twenty Five  Thousand or
not more than 06 months light imprisonment or both punishments stated above.
(b) If the offence is done for the second time or after that the magistrate could impose a
fine of not less than Rupees Five Thousand and not more than Rupees Fifty Thousand
or an imprisonment not more than 06 months or both punishments shown above.
(3) Every person engaged in an offence under sub clause (1), in the event of carrying out the
same offence even after the specific number of days allotted in the announcement made by
the authorized officer from the date of revelation of that offence, apart from the penalties
mentioned in sub clause (2), shall be subjected to an additional penalty of rupees two
hundred (Rs.200) for each day that offence is continued.
(4) In addition to the imposement  of the penalty stated in sub clause 8(2), when convicted on
neglecting to act in accordance with a task assigned under clause 7 of this statute, the
owner, occupier or caretaker of that premises may be ordered by the Magistrate to comply to
the orders given by the authorized officer and to act according to the said tasks in under to
prevent actions detrimental to public health.
Not acting
according to the
orders imposed
by Clauses 4, 5
and 7 is an
offence.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
8A
09. An owner, occupier or any person of certain premises who has been issued with a written notice
under Clauses 4 and7 of this Statute,on the occasion neglecting to act in compliance to orders
specified in that notice or not taking action as per such orders within the time period allotted in
that notice, or in an instance an owner or a caretaker cannot or difficult to be identified definitely,
if the authority or his authorised officer decides that the public nuisance should be removed
immediately, the following measures may be taken:
(1) Removing that public health nuisance, through the actions decided by the relevant authority,
under the supervision of the relevant authority or the authorised officer;
(2) Money spent as expenses incurred for removing that public health nuisance or taking
necessary steps should be paid by the owner or resident or relevant  person of that premises
and according to the voucher given indicating that amount, that amount  should be paid
within 03 working days. The receipt  thus obtained should be submitted to the office of the
Medical Officer of Health where that premises is located.
(3) On the occasion that amount of money is not paid  within the specified period and in the
proper manner  a law suit could be filed in relevant magistrate court  against that person or
owner or resident.
(4) On occasions when neglecting the payment of money  under Sub Clause (3) of Clause 9, a
certificate containing the details about the amount of money  that should be levied as
expenses incurred on fulfilling that duty or taking steps should be submitted by the relevant
authority or authorised officer to the  magistrate holding jurisdiction of that division. The
magistrate could order to pay that amount of money  stated in that certificate after a summary
trial on  levying that amount of money.
(5) During the legal action relevant to above Clause 3, when the relevant person is found guilty
according to Clause 8(2)that person is liable to pay in addition to the applicable fine  for
creating a public health nuisance and the cost of the steps taken by the relevant authority
or the representative of the relevant authority to remove that nuisance and a fine of 50% of
the total amount of the fine.
(6) Any amount of money imposed as fine under the Sub Clause 8(2),the amount of money
imposed as an additional fine under sub clause 8(3) and the amount of money imposed as an
additional fine under sub clause 9(5) should be remitted to the Provincial Council Fund by
the magistrate.
10. (1) By the written notice sent, by the authority or authorised person, to the owner or resident or
any relevant person of any premises, that owner or resident could be ordered to spray,on
the advice of the relevant authority, the pesticide or biological control method stated in that
notice within the stated period on any pond, water vessel, reservoir or any other place,
which is found to gather water and promotes public health nuisance.
(2) Every person who neglects to take action, within the stipulated period, according to the
notice issued as stated in the above Sub Clause (1)will be guilty of an offence under this
Statute and on such an occasion that person will be subject to the punishment stated under
the Sub Clause 8(2).
11. (1) A person vested with the authority to carry out or fulfil the work or duties of the relevant
authority or authorised officer under this Statute, when that person carries out or fulfils that
work or duty lawfully, any owner, resident or any other person knowingly or wilfully should
not show objection or obstruct the relevant authority or authorised officer or another person
vested with such authority.
Relevant
authority should
get work done or
take action.
Reimbursing
expenses
incurred as
expenditure
under Clause 9.
Spraying
pesticides.
Opposing or
obstructing the
relevant
authority and
such persons.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
(2) Any owner, resident or any other person who acts by violating the rules and regulations of
the Sub Clause (1) of this Clause will become guilty of an offence under this Statute and
convicted as guilty after a summary trial conducted in the presence of a magistrate should be
subjected to a fine of not less than Rupees Ten Thousand and not more than Rupees Fifty
Thousand or imprisonment for a period not more than six (6) months or both fine and
imprisonment.
12.  (1) The owner or resident or any other person should not knowingly or wilfully take any
situational action that will make way to,
(a) incomplete any step taken to prevent  breeding of mosquitoes that is being  carried out
or followed in any  premises or
(b) reduce the efficiency of any step taken to prevent any public health nuisance that  is
being carried out or followed in any premises.
(2) Any owner, resident or any other person who acts by violating the rules and regulations of
the Sub Clause (1) will become guilty of an offence under this Statute and convicted as
guilty after a summary trial conducted in the presence of a magistrate should be subjected to
a fine of not less than Rupees Five Thousand and not more than Rupees Twenty Five
Thousand.
(3) In addition to the penalty stated in above Sub Clause (2), the magistrate order the action
carried out or action taken to reduce efficiency be ameliorated.
13. In any premises when more than one person is  resident or any property is jointly owned by more
than  one person, to enforce the rules and regulations of  this statute, acting or neglecting according
to the orders imposed by this statute or under it, each such resident and each owner should be
subjected separately to  the responsibility.
14. (1) Any drain, stream, waterway or marshy land, cemetery, garbage disposal place or any land,
entrusted to be maintained properly by any local government institution situated within the
administrative limits of Western Province Council or Road Development Authority or the
provincial Road Development Authority or Urban Development Authority or Low land
Development Board or  any other authority or institution in the event it is found to have
become a place congenial for breeding of mosquitoes due to neglect or delay in properly
maintaining it by the said institution,the relevant authority has the power to issue order he/
she considers necessary or appropriate to correct that situation and prevent breeding of
mosquitoes.
(2)  If there is any local government institution or Road Development Authority or Provincial
Road Development Authority or Urban Development Authority or Lowland Development
Board or any other authority or institution that neglects to take action according to any
order issued under Sub Clause (1), it is guilty of an offence under this Statute and the
relevant authority should file a law suit against that institution or should file legal action
against any other authority appointed to act on behalf of that institution under any law
applicable to institutions.
15. Under this Statute,the relevant authority or authorised officer or an  officer vested with power by
the relevant authority is empowered to enter any premises at an ordinary time.
(1) to examine or inspect nuisances or nuisances topublic health or other nuisances stated in
this statute
Decreasing the
efficiency of
any steps taken.
Co-owners and
co-residents
should be
subjected
separately.
When the local
government
institutions, etc
entrusted with
the maintenance
of drains, canals
etc. failed to
maintain them
they should be
issued with an
order.
Authority to
enter and
examine.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
10A
(2) the relevant authority or authorised officer or an officer vested with power by the relevant
authority is  empowered to examine or inspect whether the action  has been taken according
to the written instruction  given to the resident or the owner.
16. (1) On any occasion considered to be necessary or appropriate by the relevant authority, to
implement or fulfil any work or duty assigned to him/her under this statute, authority could
be vested on the Director of Divisional Health Services of the Western Province and if the
work or duty is assigned to any officer, that work and duty should be fulfilled by that officer
under the control and supervision of the relevant authority.
(2) Orders considered necessary in relation to the rules and regulations of this Statute and the
order made under them by the relevant authority could be carried out by the Director of
Divisional Health Services or a Medical Officer of Health or the Provincial Administrative
Public Health Inspector or a District Administrative Public Health Inspector or a
Administrative Public Health Inspector or a Public Health Inspector and every
officer who has received such order should act accordingly to them.
(3) Any officer who has been vested with the authority  under the Sub Clause (1) of this Clause,
when carrying out and fulfilling the work and duty so vested  on him/her, should implement
the authority of  entering and inspecting in the same manner as provided to the relevant
authority under the Clause 15 of this Statute and any obstruction made to that
officer will be an offence under the Clause 12 of this  Statute.
17. Whatever contradiction stated in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979, every offence
under this statute should be considered as a symbolic offence for the interpretation of that Act
and its function.
18. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979, for the matter of implementing the
authority vested on all officers when fulfilling that work or duty by the relevant authority or
authorised officer and any other person who has been assigned his/her work and duty, according
to the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act No. 15 of 1979,should be considered as
Peace Officers.
19. Under this Statute, if a certain person is committing the offence the notice to be handed over to
that person could be personally handed over to him/her or to any other person residing in that
premises or by pasting it in a place where it could be obviously seen, or by making it to be received
through Registered Post.
20. A prosecution for an offence under this Statute or any regulations made thereunder shall not be
instituted;
(a) except by an Authorized Officer ; and
(b) after the expiration of a period of three months from the date of detection of that offence.
21.Western Province Minister in charge of the subject could  compile rules in relation to the following
matters:
(1) ( a) In relation to the disposal of dust, ash, rubbish, dirt, fertilizer, animal waste and faeces,
carcasses kept collected in any place by the owner of any premises or resident or the
owner of any animal and in relation to avoid keeping such things collected, in a street
or on the side of a street in a manner that it becomes an oppression to any person;
Assigning the
powers of the
relevant
authority.
Issuing orders by
the relevant
authority.
An offence
should be
symbolic.
Relevant
authority and
such others
should be peace
authorities.
Handing over
the notice.
Institution of
proceedings.
Rules.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
(b) For cleaning, covering or filling such places like ponds, water courses, open ditches,
drains and letting to run water having or used to collect unclean water or things that
could be uncongenial to health;
(c) For purifying, cleaning, providing ventilation to and disinfecting houses, buildings,
religious places, any public place and places where people gather by the owners or
residents of any premises and those who are  responsible for the safety of that premises;
(d) For avoiding and eradicating epidemics, situational diseases or contagious diseases
spread by touching;
(e) Formats that should be used for the purpose of orders compiled under this statute and
formats used when filing a lawsuit at the court of Law by the relevant officer or
authorised officer;
(f) Action that should be taken and the pesticide that should be used by the owner or
resident  of any premises to avoid public health nuisances;
(g) Issuing guidelines for the eradication of  diseases spread through mosquitoes to
avoid public health nuisances;
(h) In relation to a penalty ordered by the court of Law regarding an offence under this
statute, awarding to the authorized officer or officers who discovered the offence a
certain amount of the penalty levied as an incentive.
(i) In relation to any other matter necessary for  the implementation of the rules and
regulations of this Statute.
(2) Every rule that is made by the Minister should be published in the Gazette and they should
be implemented from the date of publishing or from the date stated in that order.
(3) Every rule that is made by the Minister, after publishing in the Gazette, should be presented
to the Western Province Provincial Council for approval as soon as possible.
(4) Any rule that is not so approved should be considered as invalid from the date of that
annulment, but there should not be any prejudice for anything that has been done earlier
under it.
(5) The date of any rule that is considered as made invalid should be published in the Gazette.
22. The authority to carry out any work or duty assigned to the relevant authority under this Statute,
when it is assigned to certain authorized officer under the Sub Clause (2) of the Clause 16 of this
Statute, according to the situation, in relation to any action, with good intention, carried out or
assumed to be carried out by that Authorized Officer, no civil or criminal action should be taken in
the court against that Authorized Officer.
23. Assisting in the actions taken under this Statute to avoid  public health nuisance is the responsibility
of all government  officers including the Police, Civil Security Task Force, Grama Niladhari and
Local Government Institutions.
24, For the work of this Statute the Director of Provincial Health Services should be the relevant
authority and he/she should  take the responsibility to apply the rules and regulations of this
Statute fruitfully.
Security for
bona-fide acts.
Officers of
public Service
to provide
assistance.
Relevant
Authority.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
12A
25. The implementation of the work, duties and authority of this Statute should be carried out by the
relevant authority under the direction and supervision of the Secretary to the Ministry.
26.  (1) At any occasion when the relevant authority considers necessary and suitable, to implement
or fulfil any work or duty assigned to him/her under this Statute, authorised officers could
be appointed under the control and supervision of the relevant authority.
(2) Under the above Sub Clause the authorised officers should be Directors of Divisional
Health Services, Medical Officers of Health, Provincial Administrative Public Health
Inspectors,District Administrative Public Health Inspectors, Administrative Public Health
Inspectors of the Offices of the Medical Officer of Health of the Western Province, Chief
Public Health Inspectors of the relevant Local Government Institutions of the Western
Province and all other Public Health Inspectors.These authorised officers should be the
Authorised Officers only in their duty area under this Statute.
27. If there is any contradiction among the Sinhala, Tamil and  English versions of this Statute, then
the Sinhala version should enforced.
28. Unless an interpretation becomes necessary in relation to terms in this Statute :
“Minister”
means the minister in charge of the subject of Health in the Western Provincial Council.
“Secretary to the Ministry”
means the Secretary to Ministry in charge of the subject Health in the Western Province.
“Director of Provincial Health Services”
means the Director of Health Services, Western Province or any person appointed to perform the
duties of that post or to cover the duties or to fulfil the duties.
“Director of Divisional Health Services”
means the Directors of Divisional Health Services of the Western Province Provincial Department
of Health Services appointed for the Districts in the Western Province or the officer appointed to
perform the duties of that post or to cover the duties or to fulfil the duties.
“Medical Officer of Health”
means an officer appointed to the post of Medical Officer of Health to the Western Province
Department of Health Services or an officer appointed to perform in that post or cover the duties
or to fulfil the duties and Chief Medical Officer or Additional Medical Officer of Health or Medical
Officer of Health serving within the administrative limits of any municipality or in that municipality.
“Provincial Administrative Public Health Inspector”
means an officer appointed; to the post of Provincial Administrative Public Health Inspector of the
Western Province Provincial Department of Health Services or to perform the duties of that post
or cover the duties or fulfil the duties.
Authorised
Officers.
Sinhala version
is valid when
there is
contradiction.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'06'27
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.06.2012
“District Public Health Inspector”
means an officer appointed; to the post of District Administrative Public Health Inspector of the Western Province
Provincial Department of Health Services or to perform the duties of that post or cover the duties or fulfil the duties.
“Administrative Public Health Inspector”
means an officer appointed; to the post of Administrative Public Health Inspector in medical officer of health
functioning under the Western Province Provincial Department of Health Services or to perform the duties of that
post or cover the duties or fulfil the duties.
“Chief Public Health Inspector”
means an officer appointed; to the post of Chief Public Health Inspector of an Local Government institution of the
Western Province or to perform the duties of that post or cover the duties or fulfil the duties.
“Public Health Inspector’
means an officer appointed to the post of or to perform the duties of that post or cover the duties or fulfil the duties
of the Public Health Inspector of the Western Province Provincial Department of Health Services.
“Resident”
means a person, who on his/her behalf or as a representative of another person, is holding the custody, management
or control of a premises or residing in that premises.
“Owner”
means any person who is the owner, lessee or having some ownership to receive the rent or produce of that premises
or any person, institution, corporation or office holding the responsibility of properly maintaining that premises.
“Caretaker”
means a person holding custody, management or control of certain premises as a representative or employee of
certain person or certain person appointed by the court of law as a holder of power-of-attorney to that premises or
on behalf of a minor.
“Person”
means any individual or any institution or a private board.
“Public Nuisance”
Certain Nuisance caused through water pollution, air pollution, soil pollution and loud sound or by any other
activity, conducted by the man himself in a manner obstructing better maintenance of physical, psychological,
economical and social conditions of human beings is public Nuisance.
“Premises”
means any land and any building situated on it or a part of that building.
“Article”
Means certain thing made up from anything including glass, metal, wood, plastic, fibre or rubber which cannot be
used or consumed yet, can become a threat to the health of certain person.
07 - 337
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.