

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
135
135
wxl 1"796 - 2013 fmnrjdß 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'02'01
No. 1,796 – FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 01, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 138
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 142
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd February, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th
February, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III of the Gazette No. 1,795 of 24.01.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
136
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
137
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
138
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 01st March,  2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
09th January, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Colombo Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Hulftsdorp Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Castle Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12
Colombo Colombo Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
(St. Sebastian Place) Colombo Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Wellawatta Division General, District Secretariat, Dam
Street, Colombo 12.
02–06

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
139
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KEGALLE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th March,  2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
17th January, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kegalle Ruwanwella Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kannaththota Area in Koralathuna and General, District Secretariat, Kegalle.
Pathabulathgama Division.
02–161
–––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Posts of Assistant Secretary (Legal)
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka with the
undermentioned qualifications for recruitment to the post of
Assistant Secretary (Legal) in the Ministry of Justice.
02. ( a) Educational and Professional qualifications .– Should
posses a Degree in Law from a University recognized
by the University Grants Commission or be an
Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka.
(b) Experience .– Should posses 3 years professional
working experience as an Attorney-at-law.
03. Other qualifications :–
(a) 1. Applicants should bear an excellent moral character ;
2. Applicants should have a good Command of spoken
and written English ;
3. Physical fitness.– Every applicant should be in good
mental and physical order to serve in any part of the
island and to discharge the duties and functions of
the post.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
140
Applicants should have fulfilled all qualifications
requierd for recruitment to the post at the closing
date of applications.
04. Age limit.– Should not less than 21 years of age and not more
than 35 years at the closing date of applications. (The maximum age
limit will not apply to those already in the State Service).
05. Salary scale.– SL 1-2006 Step 01 :
Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 - 8x 790 - 17x1,050 -
Rs. 53,555 per month.
06. Method of recruitment. – Recruitment will be made upon
marks given at a structured interview held by an interview board
appointed by the Public Service Commission.
07. Conditions of employment :
(a) The post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates will be required to make contributions to the
Widows'/Widowers' and Orphan's Pension Scheme.
(b) The selected persons are required to comply with the
provisions of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Repubilc of Sri Lanka and any rules and regulations
already made or that may hereafter be made to give effect
to the language policy of the Government. They will be
subjected to the relevant provisions of the Establishments
Code, Financial Regulations, Departmental Orders and
any other orders already issued or which may be issued
by the Government from time to time. Selected candidates
should adhere to the regulations of the Public Service
Commission published in the Government Gazette dated
20.02.2009.
(c) Selected persons should be in good mental and physical
order to serve in any part of the island and to discharge
the duties and functions of the post and should undergo a
Government Medical Examination.
(d) The selected persons are required to pass the First
efficiency Bar Examination within three years (03) from
the date of appointment.
(e) He/She will be subject to a probation period of three (03)
years from the date of appointment.
(f) As per the Public Administration Circular 7/2007, if the
language in which a selected candidate sat for the
examination is not an official language, the candidate should
attain proficiency in an official langauge within the
probation period and should attain proficiency in the
other official language within 6 years from the date of
appointment.
08. The application should be in the specimen form mentioned
in this notification and should be prepared on a A4 size paper using
both sides of the paper. The application form should be so prepared
that cages 1 to 14 appear on the first side and the rest on the other
side of the paper. The duly completed applications should be sent
to reach the following address on or before 22.02.2013 by registered
post. On the top left hand corner of the envelope please write the
post you apply for as i. e. "Post of Assistant Secretary (Legal) in
the Ministry of Justice". The applicants in the public service should
send in their applications through the Head of the Department/
Institution he/or she is attached to.
09. The marking Scheme at the interview :
Areas for which marks are awarded Marks Maximum
Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications :
(i) A Degree in Law from a University
recognized by the University
Grants Commission
Pass at first class 20
Pass at second class upper division 15
Pass at second class lower division 10
(ii) First class obtained at the final 15 20
examination of the Sri Lanka Law
College
(iii) Second class obtained at the final 10
examination of the Sri Lanka
Law College
(marks will be awarded only to the
highest qualification either for
the degree or final examination of
the Law College)
02. Additional Professional Qualifications :
(i) Post Graduate Deree in Law (LLM) 15
awarded by Sri Lanka Law College or
university recognized by University
Grants Commission
(ii) Post Graduate Diploma in the field 08 15
of law (duration not less than
one year)
(iii) Post Graduate Diploma in the field 05
of law (duration not less than
6 months)
03. Experience :
(i) Experience in legal profession in
public or private sector
(Professional working experience as 05 marks 30
an Attorney-at-law will be considered, per year
in addition to the 3 year working
experience as mentioned in the
notification for calling applications)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
141
05 marks per year - maximum marks
will be 30
(should be supported by certificate
obtained from a Judge or Presidents
Counsel or Attorney-at-Law with
not less than 20 year working
experience)
04. Computer Ability :
(i) Degree in Information Technology 15
obtained from an institution
recognized by University Grants
Commission
(ii) Diploma in Information Technology 10 15
obtained from an institution
recognized by the Government
(duration - not less than 6 months)
(iii) Certificate Course on Information 05
Technology conducted by an
institution recognized by the
Government (duration - not less
than 3 months)
05. English Language Proficiency :
(i) Followed a Degree of Post Graduate 15
Degree or Courses of the Law
College in English Medium (medium
of language should be English)
(ii) Certificate in Diploma in English 10 15
obtained from an institution
recognized by the University Grants
Commission (duration - not less
than 6 months)
(iii) Certificate Course in English 05
conducted by an institution
recognized by the University Grants
Commission or University or
Govt. (duration - not less than
three months)
06. Skills shown at the interview 05 05
10. Please note that incomplete applications, submitted without
basic qualifications and received after the closing date will be rejected
without notice. Complaints on application or related documents
lost in the mail will not be considered.
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification, if the
Areas for which marks are awarded Marks Maximum
Marks
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after selection.
The final decision on any matter not mentioned herein shall be
with the Secretary to the Public Service Commission.
This notice is published by the orders of the Public Service
Commission.
K
AMALINI DE SILV A,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Ministry of Justice,
Colombo 12.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
APPLICA TION FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY (LEGAL)
No. .......................
(for office use only)
01. ( a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
Name with initials (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
(b) Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
Full Name (in English block capital) :––––––––––.
02. Permanent Addres (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
03. Permanent Address (in English block capital) :––––––––––.
04. Telephone No. :––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Sex :––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
08. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
09. Nationality :––––––––––.
10. Whether married or single :––––––––––.
11. Particulars in respect of the Degree in Law :
University :––––––––––.
Date the Degree was conferred :––––––––––.
Medium :––––––––––.
12. Date on which the applicant took oaths as an Attorney-at-
Law :––––––––––.
13. Professional Experience as an Attorney-at-Law : No. of years
:––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
142
14. Other Educational Qualifications :
(i) .............................
(ii) .............................
(iii) .............................
15. Proficiency in Languages (mark 3 in the relevant Column)
V ery Good Ordinary Weak
Good
Sinhala
Tamil
English
APPLICANT'S DECLARATION
I, ....................... declare that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and correct. I certify that I have not been
subject to any form of disciplinary action including dismissal from
the service or retirement for general inefficiency as a merciful
alternative to dismissal and I have not vacated the post previously.
I am also aware that, if any particulars contained herein are found
to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, if detected
before selection and to dismissal without compensation, if detected
after appointment.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT, IF
THE APPLICANT IS IN PUBLIC SERVICE
I hereby inform that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................... is serving in
this Ministry/Department/Institution as a permanent/temporary/
casual ........................ and that he/she can be/cannot be released if
selected for this post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Ministry/Department/Institution :––––––––––.
02–162
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF  BUDDHASASANA  AND
RELIGIOUS  AFFAIRS
Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR
RECRUITMENT OF "ASSISTANT GUARDIAN - HINDU
PILGRIMS' REST KATARAGAMA"
APPLICATIONS are invited from the Qualified Citizens of Sri
Lanka for the Post of "Assistant Guardian - Hindu Pilgrims' Rest
Kataragama" from suitable candidates to fill the vacancy in the
Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs.
02. Conditions of Service. – The selected candidate will be
appointed to Grade III of the service on the following conditions.
The officer should pass the 1st EB before the expiry of three
(03) years from the date of appointment in Grade III. The officer
should pass the 2nd EB before the expiry of three (03) years from
the date of appointment in Grade II. The officer should pass the
3rd EB before the expiry of five (05) years from the date of
appointment in Grade I. The relevant proficiency level of the second
official language should be acquired as per the provisions of Public
Administration Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
03. Salary Scale :
Salary Group : MN 1-2006A in Public Administration
Circular No. 6/2006(iv).
Salary Scale  : Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11x 170 - 10x240 -
10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
04. Qualifications :
4.1 Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in
Six (06) subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/
Tamil/English, Mathematics and two other subjects
in one sitting ; and
(ii) Should have passed at least One (01) subject at the
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (Except General Test).
4.2 Other Qualifications :
(i) Possess good knowledge on Hindu Religion, Culture
and Indigenous Culture.
(ii) Proficiency in Languages.
4.3 Eligibility :
(i) Be a Citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should have an excellent moral character and possess
physical fitness and sound mind.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
143
(iii) Should not be less than 18 years and more than 30
years of age as at 01st March 2013. Age limit is not
applicable to the applicants who are already
confirmed in the Government Service.
5. Method of Application.– The application should be prepared
in the form of the specimen appended to this notification using A4
size (8 1/2" x 12") paper using both sides. Duly completed
applications should be forwarded by registered post addressed to
"Director, Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs,
248-1/1 Galle Road, Colombo 04" to reach on or before 01st March
2013.
The post applied should be written on the left hand top corner
of the envelope enclosing the application. The Director reserves
herself the right to make any final decision with regard to the matters
not mentioned in this notification or not clear enough.
6. Examination Fee.– A money order for the value of Rs. 500 be
obtained in favour of "Director, Department of Hindu Religious
and Cultural Affairs" before closing date of application and pasted
in the relevant cage of the application form. This fee is non-
refundable.
7. Method of Selection :
7.1 Written Examination.– The examination will consist of
the following question papers.
(i) General Intelligence - 100 marks (Duration 1hour)
(ii) General knowledge - 100 marks (Duration 1hour)
This examination will be conducted by SLIDA or
an Institute approved by the Director, Department
of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs. (SLIDA -
Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration.) Only the candidates who have
scored 40% of marks or above for each of the
question papers shall be called for the Structured
Oral Examination.
Date of Examination.– This examination will be held in Colombo
in April 2013. The Director reserves the right to postpone or cancel
this examination and to make any final decision with regard to any
matters not mentioned in this notification or not clear enough.
Medium of Examination.– The examination will be held in Sinhala
and Tamil Languages.
8. Syllabus :
(i) General Intelligence - 100 marks (Duration 1 hour)
To asses the candidate's capacity for comprehension,
qualification and perception of time space relations by
measuring the candidate's inferences and responses to
problems presented in verbal, numerical and spatial
contexts.
(ii) General knowledge  - 100 marks (Duration 1 hour) :
1. Hindu Religion and Cultural Affairs.
2. General Knowledge in Social and Development
matters.
3. Current affairs in politics and Economics of Sri
Lanka.
4. General Administration techniques and customer
care.
5. Current World Affairs.
6. Information Technology.
9. Structured Oral Examination .– Candidates who have been
selected for the Structured Oral Interview will be held by Director
Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs. Marks will be
provided to the candidates for "Relevant Subject Knowledge",
"Relevant Additional Qualifications" and "Other Achievements".
Minimum of 40 marks should be obtained at the interview.
S
HANTHI NAVUKARASAN,
Director,
Department of Hindu Religious and
Cultural Affairs.
01st February, 2013.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF
"ASSISTANT GUARDIAN - HINDU PILGRIMS' REST KATARAGAMA"
(office use only)
1. Language medium of examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2. Name with initials (In English Block Capitals) (Mr./Mrs./
Miss.) :–––––––––––.
3. Name in full (in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
4. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
5. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
6. Postal Address (in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
7. 7.1 Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
7.2 Age as at the closing date of application :
Y ears : Months : Days :
8. Sex :
(Male - 0,  Female - 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
9. Civil status :
(Unmarried - 1, Married - 2)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
144
10. Ethnic group :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, Indian Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
11. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
12. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––.
12.1 Particulars of the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
12.2 Particulars of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results of the Examination :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 3.
2. 4.
12.3 Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
13. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any offence
(If yes give particulars) ?
14. Particulars of the Money Order for payment of Examination
fees :
(i) Post office at which Money Order obtained :––––––.
(ii) Number and date of Money Order :–––––––––––.
Paste The Money Order properly here
(keep a photocopy for future reference)
15. Declaration of the candidate :
I declare that information given in this form is true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. I also declare that I have not
been dismissed or treated as a person vacated the post from public
service. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the
examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my
candidature or dimiss me from Public Service without compensation
prior to, during or after the examination if it is found that I am
ineligible according to the regulations of the examination. Further, I
agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by Director,
Department of Hindu Religious and Cultural Affairs who reserves
the right to make all decisions with regard to the appointment and
place of work of this post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
IN CASE OF A PUBLIC SERVANT, CERTIFICATE OF THE
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
I forward herewith the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss .................
I wish to state that he/she is serving in this Ministry/Department
as permanent/temporary/casual employee and that he/she can/cannot
be release if he/she is selected for this post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and
Official Frank.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––.
02–143
DEPARTMENTAL   EXAMINATION   FOR   PRELIMINARY   GRADE
MEDICAL   OFFICERS   AND   DENTAL   SURGEONS – MARCH  -  2013
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination for Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons which should  be
passed by  Preliminary Grade Medical Officers before promotion to Grade II in terms of Section 07 of the Minute of Medical Offi cers
in the Health Services, published in the Gazette (Extra Ordinary)  No. 662/11 of 17.05.1991 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, and which should be passed by Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service will be held on 24th March, 2013 in Sin hala,
Tamil and English medium. The venue and the time of the examination will be notified along with the Admission Card.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
145
02. Qualifications.– Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons who have not completed the relevant examination
can apply for this examination.
03. Applications.– Applications prepared by the candidates as per specimen appended to this letter should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Director (Examinations), Ministry of Health "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero
Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 01st March, 2013 through their Heads of Institutions. The Head of Division should certify the
accuracy of contents in each application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9" x 4" inches, affixed with stamps to the v alue of
Rs. 30.00 should be sent along with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private address). Applications whi ch are
received late, incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using an A4 paper based on the specimen form of the application so as to
recommended from 01 to 04(c) on the first front page and from 04(d) to 09 on the second page. Application which do not
conform to above will be rejected any information.
04. Examination fees :
(i) Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, in every subsequent
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application and
cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
(ii) The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination:
(i) Candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly complete
and submit same to the Supervisor at the Examination Centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the examination.
(ii) Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card ;
(b) Departmental Identity Card ;
(c) Driving License ;
(d) Passport.
(iii) If you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination centre and the
index number through the web site ; If you were able to trace your examination centre and the index number as mentioned
above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre in the web site together with a letter attesting your
signature by your immediate superior officer and sit the examination by establishment of your identity. The applicants
who have received the admission card should certify their signature and should be bought. The applicants who have
obtained the certification on their signature will not be entitled to face the examination. (Web site : 
www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consist of three written question papers and a Sinhala/Tamil Viva Voce
test. Each part will receive 100 Marks. Candidates should score a minimum of 50 marks for a pass in each part. The Examination can be
completed at one sitting or at several sittings.
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
7.1 Written Examination :
7.1.1 Establishments Code :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions. Total marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Establishments Code :
(a) Part I - Chapters II, III, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, XI, XII, XIII, XV, XXIV , XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII
(b) Part II - Chapters XLVII and XLVIII ;
(ii) General Regulations of the Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Orders of the Public Service Commission.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
146
7.1.2 Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries :
Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should answer four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
Syllabus :
Health Manual :
Part I - Medical Services
Part II - Laboratory Services
7.1.3 Accounts :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer 04 questions out of 7 questions. Total Marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Financial Regulations -
Chapter I - All Sections
II - All Sections
III - All Sections
IV - All Sections
V - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6
VI - All Sections
VII - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 ;
(ii) Regulations of Stores Accounts of the Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Sections of Finance in the Manual of the Department of Health Services ;
(iv) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health.
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : The Staff Officers in the Department of Health Services will conduct this Examination in
Colombo to examine the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language. Total Marks 100. Skills of Officers to discuss on matters
pertaining to their daily routine duties will be examined.
8. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized Compaign/
Institution. The information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
M. B. L. R
AHUMAN,
Deputy Director General (Admin.) II,
for Director General of Health Services.
My No. : CF/EXE/01/2013
Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
January, 2013.
Specimen Form of Application
For Office Use Only                
DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINA TION FOR PRELIMINARY GRADE
MEDICAL OFFICERS AND DENTAL SURGEONS - MARCH - 2013
01. (a) (i) Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials at the end) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials at the end) :

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
147
(iii) Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
  (b) (i)  Designation (Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Date of Internship Appointment :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘ 3’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark "X" against the subjects not
offered) :
Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Accounts
Establishments Code Sinhala Viva Voce
Tamil Viva Voce
03. Medium you sit for the examination (Sinhala/English/Tamil) :––––––––.
04. ( a) Present Station :–––––––––––.
(b) District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
(c) Please mark  " 3" in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (If any or several
examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due to absence of a
sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers would be re-attached to a
closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the Director General of Health Services).
Colombo Kandana Hambantota
Kaluthara Galle Badulla
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
Ampara Vavuniya
(d) Whether a self-addressed envelop in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 30.00 has been attached to the
application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.
(e) (i)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in English Capitals) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
(b) If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I nee d
not affix stamps since I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs. ………… since I repeat
the Examination*, and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and not used.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
148
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Department of Health for the conduct of this Examination and
if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination I agree with whatever decision taken for the
cancellation of my candidature.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of Head of Institution :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………is well known to me and in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in
his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the examination he/she* sits the Examination for the first time/repea ts the
Examination* he/she* need not affix stamps/has affixed stamps to the value of Rs.……… to the Application and he/she* placed his/ her*
signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Institution/Frank/Rubber Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialised Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the particulars
furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* personal file and  he/she* is
eligible to sit for the Examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
Specialised Campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :–––––––––––– .
02–79

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
149
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.02.2013
150
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone
Mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2013
FEBRUARY 01.02.2013 Friday — 18.01.2013 Friday 12 noon
08.02.2013 Friday –– 24.01.2013 Thursday 12 noon
15.02.2013 Friday –– 01.02.2013 Friday 12 noon
22.02.2013 Friday –– 08.02.2013 Friday 12 noon
MARCH 01.03.2013 Friday — 15.02.2013 Friday 12 noon
08.03.2013 Friday –– 22.02.2013 Friday 12 noon
15.03.2013 Friday –– 01.03.2013 Friday 12 noon
22.03.2013 Friday –– 08.03.2013 Friday 12 noon
28.03.2013 Thursday –– 15.03.2013 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 05.04.2013 Friday — 22.03.2013 Friday 12 noon
12.04.2013 Friday –– 28.03.2013 Thursday 12 noon
19.04.2013 Friday –– 05.04.2013 Friday 12 noon
26.04.2013 Friday –– 12.04.2013 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. D E SILVA,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.