

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1971
1971
wxl 1"832 - 2013 Tlaf;dan¾ 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'10'11
No. 1,832 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 11, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1974
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1981
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— (i) Part I:III of the Gazette No. 1,831 of 04.10.2013 was not published.
(ii) The list of Jurors in Colombo District - 2014 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette, under same Gazette Number and
date of publication in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st November, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th
October, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1972
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1973
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1974
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th Nov ember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
27th September, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Sri Jayawardanapura Post of Medical Registrar Births and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Kotte Deaths for Sri Jayawardanapura General, District Secretariat,
Kotte North Division Dam Street, Colombo 12.
10–366
––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources Management
FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER (EXECUTIVE SERVICES GRADE III) RECRUITMENT ON OPEN BASIS
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Post of Legal Officer of the Ministry of Irrigation  and
Water Resources Management.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Applicants who obtained maximum marks from a structured interview conducted by an interview
panel appointed by Public Services Commission out of applicants who have completed quailfications mentioned above will be recru ited

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1975
in accordance with existing vacancies. Structured interview will be held in conformity with the marking scheme (under No. 6) ap proved
by Public Service Commission.
02. Qualifications :
(i) Educational/Professional Qualifications :
Should have possessed a Degree in Law from a university recognized by a University Grants Commission or having
taking oath as a Lawyer.
(ii) Experience :
Should have a active professional service period not less than 3 years after taking oath as an Attorney-at-Law.
(iii) Physical qualifications :
Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit for service and to perform duties of the Post in any part of the
island.
(iv) Others :
Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
Should be of excellent character.
Requisite qualifications for this post should have been completed in every aspect as at the closing date.
03. Service occupying conditions and service conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Selected applicants should contribute to the Widow's/Widower's and Orphans
Pensions Scheme.
(ii) The selected applicants will be subject to a proabtion period of three (3) years. Officers should pass the First Efficiency
Bar Examination within three years of the appointment.
(iii) Every officer recruited not in the medium of official language should obtain the proficiency in the official language during
the probation period in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007.
(iv) This appointment is also subject to the procedural rules of Public Services Commission, Financial Regulations, provisions
of Establishment Code, departmental orders and orders already issued or that may be issued by the government.
Age limit.– The applicant should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age.
05. Salary Scale.– As per salary scale SL 1-2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006.
Monthly salary scale entitled to this post. SL-1 Rs. 22,935 -10x645 - 8x790- 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
06. Marking scheme for the structured interview :
Subject Maximum marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications :2 0
Degree in Law from a recognized university
First Class 20
- Second Class (Upper) 15
- Second Class (Lower) 10
First Class in the final year of Law College 15
Second Class in the final year of Law College
(marks only for maximum qualifications. either LLB or
Law College Qualifications)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1976
02. Additional Professional Qualifications :1 5
Post Graduate Diploma in relevant field or Post
Graduate Diploma in Law issued by a recognized
institute  (Academic period not less than one year)
5 marks each for one diploma.
Diploma in relevant field issued by a recognized institute
(Academic period not less than six months) 3 marks
each for one diploma
Certificate in relevant field issued by a recognized
institute (Academic period not less than three months
2 marks each for one certificate.
03. Additional Experience :3 0
Experience as an Attorney-at-Law in Government or  5 marks per one year
private sector maximum 30 marks five marks per
one year each.
(Except three years of service period engaged in service
as an Attorney-at-Law, to acquire basic qualifications.
Additional experience should be confirmed by a
certificate issued by a Attorney-at-Law or President's
Counsel or a judge with a service period not less
than 20 years.
04. Computer literacy :1 5
Should have possessed a degree in Information 15
Technology as a main subject from a university
recognized by University Grants Commission
A diploma for information technology not less than 10
six months in a government recognized institute
A certificate for information technology not less than 05
three months in a government recognized institute
05. Proficiency in English Language :1 5
Post Graduate/Degree/Post LLB Degree/LLB Degree 15
studied in English medium (All relevant question
papers should be answered in English medium)
English Language Diploma from a university 10
recognized by a University Grants Commission or
an Institution recognized by the government
English Language Certificate Course from a university 05
recognized by a University Grants Commission or
an Institution recognized by the government.
06 Marks to be given by Interview Board for skills 05
100
Subject Maximum marks

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1977
07. Identity of candidate .– Only applicants who has submitted complete applications in every aspect will be invited for the
structured interview.
Original copies of all certificates and duly certified copies should be submitted in the interview.
Any of the following documents will be accepted to confirm the identity in the interview :
 (a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
 (b) Valid passport.
08. (a) Applications should be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or before 11.11.2013.
Secretary,
Irrigation and Water Resources Management,
No. 500, T. B. Jayah Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
(b) A specimen of an application is indicated in the end of this notice. Applicants should fill the application in their own
handwriting on paper of size A4.
(c) The words "Recruitment for the Post of Legal Officer "should be clearly indicated in the top left corner of the envelope
enclosing the application.
(d) Applicant's signature of application should be attested by a Head of School/Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/
Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/A Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy or Air Force or an Officer who holds a
Gazette post in the Police Service or officer in receipt of an annual consolidated salary Rs. 273,000 or over.
(e) Thos who are in Public Service or Provincial Service at present should forward their application through the heads of
their respective department.
(f) Applications not in the conformity with the specimen herewith be rejected. Any complaint regarding loss or delay of the
application will not be accepted.
09. Furnishing false Information.– Your candidature is liable to be cancelled if it is found before recrutiment that any information
furnished by you in your application is false or incorrect.
It is found after the recruitment that you have furnished information that is false or incorrect you will be liable for dismiss al
from the Public Service subject to the relevant procedure.
Number and effective date of the appointment will be determined on the order of the Public Services Commission. Public
Services Commission has the power to fill number of vacancies or all vacancies.
In case of an inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this Gazette. The Sinhala text shall prevail.
On the order of the Public Services Commission.
Secretary,
Irrigation and Water Resources Management.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1978
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND W ATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER
No. ..................................
(For office use only)
01. ( a) Name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Name with initials (In English block capitals) :––––––––.
(b) Full name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Full name (In English block capital) :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
03. Permanent address (In English block capital) :––––––––––––.
04. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––.
08. Age as at the closing date of application :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
09. Nationality :––––––––––––.
10. Whether married or single :––––––––––––.
11. Particulars in respect of the degree in Law :
Univeristy :––––––––––––.
Date the degree was confirmed :––––––––––––.
Medium :––––––––––––.
12. Date of which the applicant took oaths as an Attorney-at-Law
:––––––––––––.
13. Professional experience as an Attorney-at-Law No. of years :
––––––––––––.
14. Other educational qualifications :
(i) :––––––––––––.
(ii) :––––––––––––.
(iii) :–– ––––––––––.
15. Proficiency in Language (mark 3in the relevant column) :
Very good Good Ordinary Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English
Applicants Declaration
I ............................ declare that the particulars furnished by me
in this application are true and correct. I certify that I have not been
subject to any form of disciplinary action including dismissal from
the service or retirement for general inefficiency as a merciful
alternative to dismissal and I have not vacated the post previously.
I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to
be false or incorrect. I am liable to disqualification. If detected
before selection and to dismissal without compensation, if detected
after appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department if the applicant is in
Public Service
I hereby inform that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... is
serving in this Ministry/Department/Institution as a permanent/
temporary/casual .................................. and that he/she can be/
cannot be released if selected for this post.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department/Institution :––––––––––––.
10–361
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Ports and Highways
DIRECTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE OF MERCHANT SHIPPING
APPLICATIONS are invited for the following post, from citizens of Sri Lanka who possess the necessary qualifications as indicat ed in
this notification.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1979
Posts Vacant :
Posts Class No. of Posts
Port State Controller (Deck) Class I 01
1. In this notice "Secretary" shall mean the "Secretary to the Ministry of which the subject of shipping is assigned".
2. Effective date of the appointments will be determined as per the orders of the Public Service Commission.
3. Qualifications and Experience :
Posts Educational Qualifications Experience
Port State Controller Applicants should possess a certificate of Competency Having severed as a Master for a period of
(Deck) as a Master issued by the Director General's Office of minimum 02 years in a trading merchant
Merchant Shipping, Sri Lanka or a Government vessel having a capacity of not less than
Maritime Administration of the following countries, 3,000 G . T.
United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, India,
Pakistan, New Zeland, Malaysia, Singapore, South Africa
and Ireland or a country that has an agreement on mutual
recognition with Sri Lanka for relevant certificates.
Physical fitness.– All candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the
duties of the post. Selected candidates will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.
Other qualifications. – A candidate applying for these posts must :–
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Have a sound moral character,
(iii) Have satisfied all the requirements for recruitment to the post, on the prescribed date as per the notification/ Gazette.
4. Salary Scale.– As per the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 Salary Scale for above post as given below :
Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (SL-1-2006) salary range payable starts from the 20th step of this
scale (Rs. 36,755).
5. Age.– Should not be less than 30 years and not moer than 45 years of age. (The upper age limit will not be applicable to those
who are already in the Public Service).
6. Method of recruitment.– Marks will be granted by the structured interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission
as per the marking scheme mentioned in below. Vacancies will be filled in order of the merit obtained by the applicant at the i nterview :
Areas to be checked and the marks allotted Maximum Marks
Examiner (Deck)
01. Additional Educational Qualifications :
(i) Postgraduate Degree related to fields of Engineering or Science or Commerce or Management or 30
Transportation and Logistics or Maritime, from a university recognized by the University Grant
Commission Marks 30
(ii) Postgraduate Diploma under the above fields Marks 20
(iii) Under the above fiels :
1st Class of Degree - Marks 18
2nd Upper - Marks 15
3nd Lower - Marks 12
02. Professional qualifications : 10
(i) In possession of a dully completed one year Diploma Certificate related to the field, from a
recognized by the Government (Additional educational qualifications that have not been
allocated any marks under (01)) Marks 10

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1980
(ii) In possession of a dully completed six months Diploma Certificate related to the field, from a
recognized by the Government (Additional educational qualifications that have not been
allocated any marks under (01)) Marks 05
03. Additional Experience : 30
In addition to the minimum recruitment qualifications
(5 marks per year and maximum for 06 years)
04. Contribution to the field (innovations and publications) 10
05. Computer Literacy - 15
- Subject of the Degree Marks 15
- 1 year Diploma/Certificate Marks 12
- 6 months Diploma/Certificate Marks 10
- Other Marks 08
06. Skills at the Interview
  05
100
7. Terms of Engagement :
(i) Efficiency Bar Examination :
1st Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 05 years from the date of appointment.
(ii) Nature of Efficiency Bar - Written Examination.
(iii) Language Proficiency :
Language Proficiency to be required
01. Official Language Officers who are recruited in a language medium other than an official language shall acquire
one such prescribed official language proficiency during the probation period and the other
official language within 6 years after their appointment.
02. Other Official Languages In terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular 07/2007 and other relevant
Circular, should have acquired level 1 proficiency.
(iv) Above posts are permanent and Pensionable, Contributions must be made to "Widows and Orphans" Pension Fund.
(v) This appointment will be on probation for a period of 3 years.
(vi) A selected candidate will be appointed to Class I of the service on the terms and conditions governing appointments
under the Extra Ordinary Gazette Notification No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009 of the Public Service Commission and
under the conditions of Administrative Regulations.
(vii) All the recruitments should be subjected to the approved Scheme of Recruitment and any amendments made or to be
made hereafter to the Scheme of Recruitment.
8. Method of Applying :
(i) Applications which should be in the form appended to this notification should be sent by registered post to reach the
Director General, Director General's Office of Merchant Shipping, No. 43/89, 1st Floor, Bristol Building, York Street,
Colombo 01 on or before 11.11.2013. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked with the relevant post
on the left hand top corner.
(ii) Applications from officers in the Public Service must be forwarded through the Heads of their Departments.
In this notification, if there is any conflict between the English, Sinhala and Tamil texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Areas to be checked and the marks allotted Maximum Marks

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1981
Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt
with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
On the order of Public Service Commission,
R. W. R. PEMASIRI,
Secretary.
Ministry of Ports and Highways - Ports Division,
No. 19, Chaithya Road,
Colombo 01,
11th October, 2013.
F
ORM OF APPLICA TION
THE POST OF EXAMINER (DECK) OF DIRECTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE OF
MERCHANT SHIPPING
MINISTRY OF PORTS AND HIGHWAYS
1. Name in full :–––––––––––.
2. Address :–––––––––––.
3. Contact No. :–––––––––––.
4. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
Age as at 11.10.2013 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
5. Nationality :–––––––––––.
6. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––.
7. Professional quailfications :–––––––––––.
8. Particulars of employment or training :–––––––––––.
9. Present employment :–––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification before the selection and to dismissal without any
compensation whatsoever if the inaccuracies are detected after the
appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
10–393
EFFICIENCY  BAR   EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS
IN  CLASS  II  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2011(II) 2013
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants' Service will
be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations in the
month of January, 2014 as per Provisions of Para 5.2 of the approved
service minute of Public Management Assistants' Service published
in the Government Gazette of the Democratic Socialists Republic
of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1372/23 dated 24.12.2004.
2.0 This examination for officers in Class II of the Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy,
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa,
Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.
The list of relevant towns and town numbers are given below. The
Commissioner - General of Examinations reserves the right to cancel
any center due to insufficiency of candidates or any other reason
and decide an alternative as per the candidate's second preference
of towns. The relevant section of the application should be filled
by referring to the table of towns and town numbers given below. It
will not be allowed to change subsequently the town/towns
indicated :
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Matara 08
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullaitivu 12
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Killinochchi 25
3.0. (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner-General of Examinations for
violation of these rules and regulations.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1982
4.0. Eligibility.- Officers who have been appointed to posts in
Class II of Public Management Assistants’ Service are eligible to
appear for this examination.
Note.– Provisions for Provincial Management Assistants'
Service shall be issued by the relevant Provincial Public
Service Commission concurrently to this Gazette
Notification.
5.0. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Applications should be sent by the
Registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Organization & Foreign Examinations Branch, Department
of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla , on or before 11th
November, 2013. The name of the examination should be indicated
at the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Incomplete applications, too, will not be accepted.
6.0. Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner-General of Examinations. All candidates are bound
to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examination with regard to the conducting
of this examination. Further, candidates will be subjected to the
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for violation of those rules and regulations.
7.0. Applications.- Applications should be prepared in a paper
of “A4” size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on
the first page. The application could be typewritten but it should
be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised not to send more than one application
or photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing the
specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make
sure that the application form perfected by him/her self complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
Officers appearing for the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings,
Rs. 400 for the whole examination and Rs. 200 for only one subject
should be paid at any District/Divisional Secretariat/post-office
islandwide to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained thus
should be affixed to the relevant cage of the applications form. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. it
will not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination in
favour of another.
8.0. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
admission cards along with copies of the time table and to all
candidates whose applications have been received. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates by the Department of Examinations. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations : i. e. A copy of the application from
kept at your possession, copy of the receipt obtained at payment
of Examination fee, name, address, National Identity Card number
and the name of the examination. In case of the applicants outside
Colombo, letter of the request furnishing the above particulars and
a fax number to which a copy of the admission card is to be send to
the Department of Examination through fax. Officers who sit for
the examination should get their signature on the admission card
attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor of the
examination hall.
Note.– Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination.
9.0. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations, enabling them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0. Candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the
relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who
entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers
should be answered in the language medium of their education or in
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the language
medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
11.0. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
(For further details, refer to Para. 5:2 of Public Management
Assistants’ Service Minute.).
12.0. For the purpose of the official language policy, all officers
should prepare and fill the application forms in the official language.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1983
13.0. The Department of Examination will issue the result sheet
including the results of all the candidates who have sat for the
examination to the Director General of Combined Serivces, Ministry
of Public Administration and Home Affairs. The lists of names of
the candidates who have passed the examination will be published
in the Government Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.
14.0. Examination Procedure.-  Candidates should sit for a
written examination, which will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Marks Duration Subject
No.
(01) Office Systems and 100 02 Hrs. 01
Procedure
(02) Accounting Systems
adopted in the
Government Offices
100 02 Hrs. 02
      Total 200
14.1 Office Systems and Procedure.- This paper is intended
to test the candidate’s knowledge of office systems
adopted in Government offices and his/her ability of
practical application of the knowledge. This paper
consists of two parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple-choice questions,
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks ;
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type
questions, 03 out of 04 questions should
be answered, duration is 90 minutes, 75
marks.
14.2 Accounting Systems adopted in Government Offices.-
Candidate’s knowledge in Accounting Systems adopted
in Government office, books and records controlling
accounts and orders and instructions of the Treasury
issued in relation to that and his/her ability of practical
application of the knowledge will be tested. This paper
consists of two parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple-choice questions,
duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks ;
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions,
03 out of 04 questions should be answered,
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.
15.0. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final, in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
K. V. P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
26th September, 2013.
Specimen Form of Application
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE – 2011 (II) 2013
(As per this exam notification, only the officers in Class II of
Public Management Assistants' Service of the Combined Services
shall be eligible to forward applications)
(For office use only)  
(Indicate the name and the number Town Town No.
  of the town in which you wish to sit
  for the examination as per Para 2.0 1.
  of the Gazette notification) 2.
(This cannot be changed subsequently)
Medium of examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :———––—.
(In block capitals)
Eg : SILV A M. A.
1.2 Name with initials :——––——.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by initials :——––——.
(In block capitals)
1.4 Names denoted by initials :———––—.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Place of work and address :
2.1 Names and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :———––––—.
(In English Capital Letters)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1984
2.2 Names and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :———––––—.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
:——––––——.
(In block capitals)
3.0 Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 Subject/s you offer  :
Subject Subject No.
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :——––——.
6.2 Number of the letter of appointment :——––——.
6.3 Date of entry into Class II of Public Management
Assistants’ Service :——––——.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––.
7.2 If not, the fee paid :——––——.
7.3 For affixing the receipt :
Affix the receipt securely here.
(It would be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium
indicated above. Since I sit for the examination for the ....................
time, it is not necessary to pay the examination fee/the receipt
obtained by paying Rs. ...................... to  ......................... District/
Divisional Secretariat/post office at ...................................... has
been affixed hereto. Further, I agree to be bound by to the decision
taken by the Commissioner-General of examinations in respect of
conducting this examination and also to all the provisions of the
Examination Act and.
——––––––——,
Signature of candidate.
Date :———––—.
Note.- The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to
sign on behalf of such Head of Department.
A
TTESTATION OF THE SIGNA TURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................................... who is
an officer in my office and who is known to me personally placed
his/her signature in my presence on ..................................... since
he/she sit for the examination for the first time, it is not necessary
for him/her to paid the erelvant examination fee and that the receipt
has been affixed.
—–––––––––———,
Signature and official stamp of the
person attesting.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The particulars furnished by the candidate have been
examined ;
(ii) This officer belongs to combined services ;
(iii) The officer has *appeared/not appeared for the
examination earlier ;
(iv) *He/she has affixed the receipt obtained by paying the
relevant fee to this application form since *he/she has
appeared for the examination ; and
(v) The candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
————,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
10-380
–––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EXTERNAL  AFFAIRS
1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination and Second
Language Test for the Officers of the Sri Lanka Foreign
Service  – 2012(2013)
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination and the
Second Language Test for Officers in the Sri Lanka Foreign Service
will be held in Colombo and in Sri Lanka Missions abroad in
December 2013. The oral examination will be held only in Colombo.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1985
02. The Time Table would be prepared enabling the candidates
to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. Syllabus - Syllabus and other Provisions by which the First
and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations are governed are indicated
in the respective Service Minute.
Syllabus and other provisions for the Second Language Test are
indicated in Appendix “A” while syllabus and other provisions for
the First and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations and for the foreign
languages are indicated in Appendix “B”.
Officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency Bar
Examinations at one or more sittings.  Action will be taken to
conduct Oral Tests for the officers who sit for the Second Language
Test at the same venue at the same time.
04. Subjects for which should appear in the Efficiency Bar as
follows:
1ST  EFFICIENCY  BAR
Subject Subject Duration
No. hours
Part I
01 Finance 3
02 History and Geography of
Sri Lanka 3
Part II
03 Elementary Constitutional Law 3
and International Law
04 Diplomatic Practice 3
05 International Affairs 3
06 The Sri Lanka Foreign Service 3
Minute, Foreign Ministry
Regulations and Computer
Literacy
2ND EFFICIENCY BAR
Subject Subject Duration
No. hours
Part I
21 Economic & Social Development 3
in Sri Lanka
22 Administration 3
(a) Office Systems & Organization
Methods
(b) Establishment Code
 (V olume I & V olume II)
Subject Subject Duration
No. hours
Part II
23 Elementary Constitutional Law
and International Law 3
24 Diplomatic Practice 3
25 International Affairs 3
FOREIGN LANGUAGES
Subject Subject Duration
No. hours
07 Arabic 2
08 French 2
09 Russian 2
10 Spanish 2
11 Hindi 2
12 Chinese 2
13 German 2
14 Japanese 2
15 English 2
16 Korean 2
SECOND LANGUAGES
Subject Subject Duration
No. hours
30 Sinhala (Written) 2
31 Tamil (Written) 2
32 English (Written) 2
33 Sinhala (Oral)
34 Tamil (Oral)
35 English (Oral)
05. The attention of the Officers sitting these Efficiency Bar
Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular No.
701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :-
“Departmental examination (including Promotional and
Efficiency Bar Examination) - The medium for Promotional
Examination as well as Efficiency Bar Examination should be the
language in which the officer sat the Competitive Examination to
enter the Public Service or the Official Language. In case where
initial recruitment took place without competitive examination, the
medium for Promotional/Efficiency Bar Examination should be the
language in which the officer qualified for entry into the Public
Service or the Official Language.”
05.1 Issuance of Results :
Candidates are required to obtain 40% marks or above for
each subject for a pass. Two separate result sheets,
containing results of individual candidates, pertaining to
both First & Second Efficiency Bar Examination will be
sent to Secretary External Affairs by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1986
06. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner-General
of Examinations for the candidates to answer the question papers
in Sinhala, Tamil or English, except for the question papers on
foreign languages.  Medium applied to sit for the exam cannot be
changed.
07. If a candidate is later found to have sat in a medium in which
he is not entitled to sit, his candidature will be cancelled.
08. Application forms should be prepared in an A-4 size paper
as per the specimen appended to this notification, containing items
1-8 on the first page and the rest on the second page. Both sides of
the paper should be used.  Applications should be filled in
applicant’s own handwriting clearly. Applications prepared in
Sinhala and Tamil medium should also bear the name of the
examination in English. Candidates appearing for both Examinations
should submit separate applications in respect of each Examination.
Applications which are not in conformity with the specimen
and not provided with the required details will be rejected without
notification. Applicants are advised to keep a photocopy of the
application.
09. The Examinations will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by the rules
and regulations prescribed by the Commissioner General for the
conduct of examination.
10. All applicants should send their applications to the Overseas
Administration Division of the Ministry of External Affairs to
forward them to the Commissioner General of Examinations, on or
before 01st November 2013. Those who are serving in Sri Lanka
Missions abroad should send their applications through the Heads
of Mission.  Any Application received after the closing date will be
rejected.
11. Admissions will be issued to all candidates who had duly
submitted the applications by the Commissioner General of
Examination.  If a candidate does not receive his/her admission on
time, it is advisable for him/her to make a request by fax with
photocopies of the application and the receipt to the Commissioner
General of Examination.  It is also advised to indicate a fax number
in the request enabling the Commissioner General of Examination
to fax a copy of the Admission to the candidate.
12. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to
comply with the requirements as stipulated in paragraph 11 above
will not be entertained.
13. The following are the documents of Identity acceptable at
the examination center.
(1) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of Persons.
(2) Valid Passport.
14. Candidates who sat for the examination for the first time are
exempted from exam fees, while in the case of subsequent sittings
fees will be levied on the follow basis;
(a) First sitting (whole examination or part thereof) : free
of charge
(b) Each subsequent sitting:  Rs. cts.
Complete examination 1000 0
One Subject   500 0
Oral Test   300 0
The fees should be paid to any District or Divisional Secretariat
credited to the revenue head 2003-02-13 and the receipt should be
pasted in the relevant cage of the application.
It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
15. The decision of the Public Service Commission will be final
with regard to any matter that has not been mentioned in this
notification.  The decision of the Commissioner General of
Examination will be final with regard to the examinations.
K
ARUNATILAKA AMUNUGAMA,
Secretary /External Affairs.
Ministry of External Affairs,
Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
26th September 2013.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
M
INISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
For office use only.
1ST AND 2ND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION AND SECOND LANGUAGE TEST
FOR THE OFFICERS OF THE SRI LANKA FOREIGN SERVICE - 2012(2013)
Medium
Sinhala  - 2
Tamil -  3
English -  4
(Please mark the relevant number in the cage)
01. (a) (i) Last name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
  (ii) Last name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals.  Put the initials after the last
name.  Eg. SILV A  A.B.)
(b) (i) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
 (ii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1987
02. Address (for dispatch of admission cards) :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
03. Date of Birth:
Date : Month : Y ear :
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Sex:
(Pl. mark the relevant number in the cage
Male – 0, Female – 1)
06. Date of appointment to the Sri Lanka Foreign Service:
Date : Month : Y ear:
07. Present post :––––––––––––.
08. The name of examination applied for:
(Pl. mark the relevant number in the cage)
Examination applied Exam. No.
Efficiency Bar 1 1
Efficiency Bar 2 2
Second language 3
Foreign language 4
09. Subjects offered should be clearly stated with the subject
numbers given in para 04 of the notification. (Applicants will
be allowed to sit for subjects indicated in the application only.)
Subject Subject No.
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
10. State whether the applicant had appeared for the whole
examination or part thereof previously.  If so, state the index
number, subjects, year and month:  …….
I declare that the information furnished above is accurate and
that, I am eligible to sit for this examination in the language medium
indicated above. I abide by the rules and regulations laid down by
the Commissioner General of Examinations.
The receipt No. ……………. for payment of examination fee is
annexed.
Fee paid:  Rs……………
––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Original Receipt should be pasted here
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Forwarded.
I do hereby certify that the information furnished above is
accurate and that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………… is eligible to appear
for this examination in the language medium indicated by him/her. I
also attest the applicant’s signature.
–––––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of the
      Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Appendix “A”
SINHALA
The Test in Sinhala will consist of a written and an oral part.
The written paper will be of a two hour duration and candidates
are required to obtain 40% marks or above in this paper for a pass.
It will contain questions on:
(i) Grammar.
(ii) T ranslation of petitions or Gramaseva Niladhari’s reports
written in Sinhala into English.
(iii) Translation of an official document in English into Sinhala.
The oral Test will consist of the following:
(i) Interpret in Sinhala an official material written in English,
so that the passage can be understood and taken down in
writing by a Sinhala speaking person.
(ii) Reading a petition in Sinhala.
(iii) Conversation and Interpretation . – The purpose of the
test will be to assess the candidates’ power of
understanding Sinhala Language as it is spoken by
different native speakers and of making him/herself
understood both in common conversation and in the usual
course of official business.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1988
TAMIL
The Test in Tamil will consist of a written and an oral part.
The written paper will be of a two hour duration and candidates
are required to obtain 40% marks or above in this paper for a pass.
It will contain questions on:
(i) Grammar.
(ii) T ranslation of petitions or Gramaseva Niladhari’s reports
written in Tamil into English.
(iii) T ranslation of an official document in English into Tamil.
The Oral Test will consist of the following:
(i) Interpret in Tamil an official material written in English,
so that the passage can be understood and  taken down in
writing by a Tamil speaking person.
 (ii) Reading a petition in Tamil.
(iii) Conversation and Interpretation . – The purpose of the
test will be to assess the candidates’ power of
understanding Tamil Language as it is spoken by different
native speakers and of making him/herself understood both
in common conversation and in the usual course of official
business.
ENGLISH
The English paper will be of a two hour duration and candidates
are required to obtain 40% marks or above in this paper for a pass.
It will contain questions on:
(i)   Grammar
(ii) Comprehension
(iii) Précis writing
(iv) Report and letter writing
(v) V ocabulary
A prototype of the question paper is furnished below for the
information of candidates.
P
ART A
(a) Fill in the blanks with the correct form of the verb given
within brackets :-
During the last war our country …………1 (be) a British Colony
…………….2 (take) a full part in the war effort.  Consequently
our tea, rubber and coconut ……….. 3 (ship) to Britain at very
favourable prices and the foreign exchange we …………. 4 (earn)
……………5 (accumulate) as assets.  Again during the Korean war
in the early fifties our products ………….. 6 (fetch) good prices
and we ……………..7 (not have) any exchange problem.  However,
political independence ……….. 8 (not given rise) to any effort to
…………….9 (build up) our economy we ……………….10 (be) a
nation of consumers and we ……………11 (Squander) our foreign
exchange on consumer goods which ……………….. 12 (can
produce) locally and incidentally diversified our economy.  Over
the last decade we ………… 13 (begin) to feel the pinch when our
primary products …………… 14 (fail) to command good prices in
the world market while our requirements of food both rice and
subsidiary food stuffs ………….. 15 (rise) in price.
(b) Fill in the blanks with the correct preposition (where
necessary) :
As Assistant Secretary …………… 16 charge …………… 17
subjects, it was my duty to convene groups of officers dealing
………… 18 different aspects of development work in the Ministry
………. 19 time to time.  They discussed ………… 20 various
problems that they confronted and which they could not cope
……… 21 on their own.  We were thus able to share our experience
……… 22 each other and make concrete proposals ……….. 23
the Secretary every month.  He in turn put ………. 24 his own
plans for discussion ……………. 25 these meetings.
(c) Underline the correct letters given within brackets that would
complete the spelling of the following words.
26. har……………… ment (rass/as/ass).
27. ember…………… (rass/as/ass).
28. tol………….. (arreance/erance/erence).
29. Par…………..arian (liament/limen/liment).
30. bal……………ing (let/lat/lot).
31. itin………… (erary/arary/erarie)
32. Pers…………… (everance/everence/ewerence).
33. bour…………… (geoise/joursie/juwarsy).
34. prolet …………. (ariet/ariat/eriyat).
35. Com……………… ate (memorr/emor/memor).
(d) In each of the following statements underline the correct word
within brackets:-
36. The inventory was checked by the Board of (Survellance/
Survey/Surveyours).
37. At the enquiry I had to be satisfied that the accused officer
had (contradicted /contravened/ contaminated) the regulations.
38. Every receipt should have a (counterfoil / counterfeit /
counterpane) for the purpose of audit.
39. There was a possibility that the prosecution had (fabricated/
fumigated / promulgate) the evidence.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1989
40. (Discrete/Discretionary/Discriminatory) power was given to
the Head of the Department under the relevant Act.
41. The Police Party had (laid/lied/lain) in ambush until the bribe
taker arrived.
42. The entire staff turned upon (facilitate / infiltrate / felicitate)
the watcher on his retirement.
43. In times of national crisis we must avoid (luxuriant/luxurious)
habits.
44. Martial music was played over the radio during height of the
battle to keep up the (moral/morale/morals) of the people.
45. Candidates are advised to use (Stationary / Stationery)
sparingly owing to the acute paper shortage.
(e) Underline the correct phrase in the brackets that means the
same as the word or phrase underlined in each sentence:
46. In good management the boss should, support his staff in
their work (back out / back up / back away).
47. The sales and replacement of stock amounted to over
Rs. 5,000 (turn out / turn up / turn away).
48. We were warned at the start not to let out work get into
arrears (set out /outset).
49. They younger son wasted his father’s wealth in a few years
(ran over/ ranthrough).
50.  I wanted to see the film, but the queue deterred me from
going (put away / put off).
PART B
Read the following passage carefully and then answer the
questions set out below:
Most modern political ideals such, for example, as justice, liberty,
constitutional government, and respect for the law or at least the
definitions of them, began with the reflection of Greek thinkers
upon the institutions of CityState.  But in the long history of
political thought the meaning of such terms has been variously
modified and always that meaning has to be understood in the light
of the institutions by which the indicates were to be realized and of
the society in which those institutions did their work.  The Greek
City States was so different from the political communities in
which modern men live that it requires no small effort of the
imagination to picture its social and political life.  The Greek
Philosophers were thinking of political practices far different from
any that have prevailed commonly in modern world, and the whole
climate of opinion in which the work was done was different.  Their
problems though not without their analogies in the preset, were
never identical with modern problems, and the ethical apparatus by
which political life was evaluated and criticized varied widely from
any that now prevails.  In order to understand at all accurately
what their theories meant is necessary first to realize at least roughly
what kind of institutions they had in view and what citizenship
connected, as an effect and as an ideal, to the public for whom they
wrote.  For this purpose the Government of Athens-is especially
important, partly because it is the best known, but chiefly because
it was an object of special concern to the greatest of Greek
Philosophers.
As compared with modern states the ancient City-State was
exceedingly small both in area and in population.  The numbers
were exceedingly uncertain but, a figure somewhat in excess of
three hundred thousand would be approximately correct.  Such an
arrangement of a small territory dominated by a single City was
typical off the City State.
In each of the following cases, choose the alternative which in
your opinion supports the views expressed in the above passage.
Place a tick (right mark) against the correct answer:-
51. Athens is significant for the students of Greek political thought
mainly because
(a) it was the most powerful of the Greek City States
(b) its ideals had been carefully studied by the Greeks
themselves
(c) it had the most ideal form of Government
(d) it is the best known of the Greek City-States
52. Greek political thought was concerned with problems
(a) entirely unrelated to,
(b) identical with,
(c) different from Analogous but to.
53. The moral and religious basis of Greek political idea is –
(a) very similar to modern moral and religious ideas,
(b)  unknown,
(c) very different from modern moral and religious ideas.
54. It is
 (a) easy
(b) not at all easy
(c) impossible
for a modern man to imagine what life was like in a Greek
City-State.
55. In comparison with the ancient Greek City States are
(a) very large
(b) very small
(c) about the same size
56. The population of an ancient Greek City States was
(a) much less that 300,000
(b) over 3 million
(c) just over 300,000

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1990
57. The City-State of Athens comparisons
(a) a small territory governed by a singly city
(b) a large territory governed by a number of cities
(c) a small territory with village councils
(d)  a large territory with a decentralized administration.
58. At different times in the history of the world people
(a) have thought in basically the same way
(b) have thought in different ways
(c) have contradicted the views of people of the previous
generation.
59. Details of political theory are derived from Greek Political
thought
(a) because the Greek City States was very  similar to modern
states
(b) in spite of Greek City State being very different from
modern States
(c) because modern political theorists are students of Greek
Philosophy
60. The meaning of political ideal at a particular moment in European
History since the time of the Greeks can be defined only be
(a) relating it to its context
(b) Tracing it back to its original meaning among the Greeks
(c) Investigating the meaning of the Greek word for it
(d) Taking into account only those features in it which have
persisted throughout its history
61. Write sentences using each of the following words so as to bring
out its meaning clearly Arbitration, emoluments, etiquette,
consolidates, hypothetical, retrospective, exigencies, evaluate,
review, empower.
EITHER
62. Write a letter to the Head of an Educational Institute in an
English speaking country, setting out the following information
in an orderly manner
(i) The equivalence of our examination certificate to the
certificate specified in this letter cannot be determined as
the examining authorities in Sri Lanka have not been
consulted by the institution concerned in that country
(ii) The G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) Credit Pass has been officially
equated with an Ordinary Pass in London G .C.E. (Ordinary
Level)
(iii) The receipt of the letter sent to the   Commissioner of
Examinations is acknowledged
(iv) Any further information in this matter may be obtained
from the Embassy of the Republic of Sri Lanka in that
country
63. Write a memorandum to the Secretary, Bureau of Standards
marking out a case for the adoption of the 24 hours clock in this
country stating the advantages of such a measure.
Appendix “B”
1. FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION
1.1 The First Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of two
parts and officers may take both parts at one sitting or
separately.
1.2 An examination in the following subjects.
Part I
(i) Finance – This paper is based on the following:
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri
Lanka, Part I
(Expect Chapter X)
 (b) The estimates of the current year.
E.g. Their arrangement, the heads of   revenue,   the
Finance and Appropriation Acts.
 (c) Ordinance relating to specific accounts dealing within
Kachcheries.
(ii) History and Geography of Sri Lanka
Part II – Special Papers
(i)  Elementary Constitutional Law and  International
Law
(ii) Diplomatic Practice
(iii) International Affairs
(iv) The Sri Lanka Foreign Service Minute, Foreign
Ministry Regulations and Computer Literacy.
1.3 Each of the above papers will be of a three hour duration
and candidates are required to obtain 40%  marks or above
in each paper for a pass.
1.4 An officer will be permitted to sit each paper    separately
on any number of occasions and will be deemed to have
passed the respective paper when he/she has obtained
the qualifying marks in respect of each paper.
2.SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION
2.1 The Second Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of
two parts and officers may take both parts at one sitting
or separately.
2.2 An Examination in the following subjects :

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1991
Part I
(i) Economic and Social Development in Sri Lanka
  (ii) Administration – This paper is based on the following:
(a) Office systems and organization methods.
(b) Establishment Code – Volume I and Volume II.
Part II – Special Papers.
(i) Elementary Constitutional Law and International Law
(ii) Diplomatic Practice
(iii) International Affairs
2.3 Each of the above papers will be of a three hour duration
and candidates are required to obtain 40%  marks or above
in each paper for a pass.
2.4 An officer will be permitted to sit each paper    separately
on any number of occasions and will be deemed to have
passed the respective paper when he/she has obtained
the qualifying marks in respect of each paper.
Note :
(i) Questions on Constitutional Law will be mainly on the
evolution of the Parliamentary System of Government
and the Constitutional Development of Sri Lanka, with
special reference to the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.  Questions on
International Law will include inter – state relations,
both bilateral and multilateral and the rights and duties
of States in relation to them, diplomatic law and the law
of treaties.
(ii) An of ficer who is an Attorney-at-Law or who has
obtained a degree in Law from a recognized university
will be exempted from the paper on Elementary
Constitutional Law and International Law provided he
has secured a pass in those subjects at the relevant
Examination.
3. FOREIGN LANGUAGES
3.1 Foreign Languages
(i) Arabic (vi) Chinese
(ii) French (vii) German
(iii) Russian (viii) Japanese
(iv) Spanish (ix) English
(v) Hindi (x) Korean
3.2 Question papers on foreign languages will be of a two
hour duration. Candidates are required to obtain 40% marks
or above in each paper for a pass.
Introduction to Arabic
International General Certificate of Secondary Education
(IGCSE) syllabus are designed as two year courses for examination
at age 16-plus.
All IGCSE syllabuses follow a general pattern.  The main
sections are;
Aims
Assessment Objectives
Assessment
Curriculum Content
The IGCSE subjects have been categorized into groups, subjects
within each group having similar Aims and Assessment Objectives.
First Language Arabic falls into Group I, Languages, of the
International Certificate of Education (ICE) subjects together with
other First Languages, foreign languages and English as a Second
Language.
The booklet IGCSE, An Introduction gives fuller details of ICE
and the general pattern of the syllabuses.
This syllabus is designed for students taking First Language
Arabic as a single subject.  For excluded combinations with other
subjects, see the IGCSE Syllabus Synopses for 1999.
Aims
The aims of the syllabus are the same for all students.  The aims
are set out below and described the educational purposes of a
course in a First Language for the IGCSE examination.  They are
not listed in order of priority.
The aims are to:
1. enable students to communicate accurately, appropriately
and effectively in speech and writing.
2. enable students to understand and respond appropriately
to what they hear, read and experience.
3. encourage students to enjoy and appreciate the variety of
language.
4. complement the students’ other areas of study by
developing skills of a more general application (e.g. analysis,
synthesis, drawing of inferences).
5. promote the students’ personal development and an
understanding of themselves and others.
Assessment objectives
The three assessment objectives in First Language Arabic are –
A. Reading and Directed Writing
B. Continuous Writing
C. Usage.
These assessment objectives are not necessarily related to the
way in which the subject is taught.  A description of each assessment
objective follows:-

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1992
A – READING AND DIRECTED WRITING
Students should be able to:
1. Understand and convey information
2. Understand, order and present facts, ideas and opinions
3. Evaluate information and select what is  relevant to specific
purposes
4. Articulate experience and express what is felt and what is
imagined
5. Recognize implicit meaning and attitudes
6. Communicate effectively and appropriately
B – CONTINUOUS WRITING
Students should be able to:
7. Articulate experience and express what is felt and what is
imagined
8. Order and present facts, ideas and opinions
9. Communicate effectively and appropriately
C – USAGE
Students should be able to:
10. Exercise control of appropriate grammatical structures
11. Demonstrate an awareness of the conventions of
paragraphing, sentence structure and punctuation
12. Understand and employ a range of apt vocabulary
13. Show a sense of audience and an awareness of register and
style in both formal and informal situations.
SPECIFICATION GRID
The relationship between the assessment objectives and
components of the scheme of assessment.
Assessment Objective Paper 1/2 Paper 3
A. Reading and Directed Writing 1 1
B. Continuous Writing 1 1
C.  Usage 1 1
Assessment
Scheme of assessment.– Candidates who have followed the Core
curriculum and take the relevant papers are eligible for the award of
grades C to G only.  Candidates who have followed the Extended
curriculum are eligible for the ward of grades A* to E only.
For the examination to be appropriate to candidates across the
ability range, there will be a different scheme of assessment for
candidates expected to gain grades D to G (Core curriculum
candidates) and for candidates (expected to gain grades A* to C
(Extended curriculum candidates).
The papers in the assessment are as follows:
Core CurriculumGrades Extended CurriculumGrades
available : C to G available:A* to E
Paper 1 (2 hours) reading Paper 2 (2 ¼ hours)Reading
Directed Writing and Directed Writing
Paper 3 (1 ¼ hours) Paper 3 ( 1 ¼ hours)
Continuous Writing  Continuous Writing
Weighting of papers :-
Paper Core curriculum Extended
Curriculum
1 60%        60%
2
3                        40%
Description of papers.– The question papers will be set entirely
in the target language.
Paper 1
Part I – Will consist of a prose extract followed by six multiple
choice question which will test the candidates;
understanding of the main points of the structure and
the argument, and four open-ended questions which
will test other aspects of the extract, such as the use
of language and the author’s attitude towards the
subject matter.
Part II  - The second, literary passage will be printed and
candidates will be asked to respond to it in a variety
of ways, for example a selective summary, a letter, a
report, a speech.  One task will be set.
Part III – Will be a test of usage.  Tasks will test candidates’
control of grammatical structures and awareness of
register and style.
Paper 2
Part 1  - There will be two comparable passages, the first being
the same as the used for paper 1.
The second may be of a literary nature.  One question
will be set.  It will test candidates’ ability to select,
compare and summarize specific information from both
passages.
Part II  - This part will test candidates’ ability to use and develop
given information in another form, such as a letter or
report.
Part III  - Will be test if usage.  Tasks will test candidates’ control
of grammatical structures and awareness of register
and style.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1993
Paper 3
This paper will test candidates’ skill in continuous writing.  A
selection of nine titles will be provided calling for an
imaginative, narrative or argumentative response in an
appropriate style.  Candidates will be required to choose one
assignment and will be advised to write 600-800 characters.
CURRICULUM CONTENT
Students can follow either the Core curriculum only or they
may follow the Extended curriculum which includes both the Core
and Supplement.  Students aiming for grades A* to C will follow
the Extended curriculum :-
Assessment Core Supplement
Objective
All students should be
able to :
demonstrate
understanding of words
within short texts scan
for an extract specific
information, organize
material and present it
in a given forma
show some sense of
audience and awareness
of style
identify main and
subordinate topics,
summarize, paraphrase,
re-express.
recognize and respond
to simple linguistic
devices including
figurative language
express thoughts,
feelings and opinions in
order to interest,
inform or convince
demonstrate adequate
control of vocabulary,
In addition to what is
required in the Core,
students taking
extended level papers
should be able to:
Show a precise under
standing of more
extended texts
Recognize the
relationship of ideas,
arrangement of
concepts
Draw inferences,
evaluate,
effectiveness,
compare, analyse,
synthes
Recognize and
respond to more
sophisticated
linguistic devices
edit or elaborate the
work of others
show a wider and
more varied sense of
audience and context
and an awareness of
different styles.
paragraph,
demonstrate a
A Reading
and
Directed
Writing
B Continuous
Writing
Assessment Core Supplement
Objective
syntax, grammar and
punctuation exercise
care over punctuation
write in accurate simple
sentences attempt a
variety of sentence
structures recognize the
need for paragraphing
use and appropriate
vocabulary show some
sense of audience and
awareness of style.
sophisticated use of
vocabulary and
structures
demonstrate accuracy
in punctuation
write accurate
complex sentences
Employ a varied
sentence
StructuresWrite in
well constructed
paragraphsUse and
imaginative and
varied vocabulary
show a clear sense of
audience and
awareness of style.
C  Usage
GRADE DESCRIPTIONS
A Grade A candidate has demonstrated expertise in;
understanding and communicating information at both a straight
forward and a complex level
understanding facts, ideas and opinions and ordering and
presenting them with clarity and accuracy
evaluating material from texts and selecting and presenting in
detail what is relevant for specific purposes
describing and reflecting upon experience and detailing and
analyzing effectively what is felt and what is imagined
recognizing implicit meanings and attitudes of a writer
showing a clear sense of audience and an understating of
appropriate uses of language
writing in well constructed paragraphs, using a full range of
appropriate sentence structure and showing accuracy in spelling
and punctuation.
A Grade C candidate has demonstrated competence in:
understating and conveying information both at a straight forward
level and at a more complex level
understanding basic facts, ideas and opinions and presenting
them with a degree of clarity and accuracy
evaluating material from texts and selecting what is relevant for
specific purpose

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1994
describing and reflecting upon experience and expressing
effectively what is felt and what is imagined ;
recognizing the more obvious implicit meanings and attitudes of
a writer ;
showing a sense of audience and an awareness of appropriate
uses of language ;
writing in paragraphs, using sentences of varied kinds and
exercising care over spelling and punctuation ;
A Grade F candidate has demonstrated competence in:
Understanding and conveying information at a straight forward
level ;
understanding basic facts ,ideas and opinions and presenting
them with a degree of coherence ;
selecting material from texts and commenting upon it at a literal
level ;
describing experience in concrete terms and expressing intelligibly
what is felt and what is imagined ;
recognizing clear meanings and explicit attitudes of a writer ;
showing awareness that language is used in different ways in
different circumstances ;
writing at least in simple sentences – weaknesses in spelling and
punctuation and the construction of complex sentences will be
apparent, but will not seriously impair communication.
FRENCH 7193
The Examination :
The examination will consist of three written papers.  The
allocation of mark is as follows Paper 1-10 marks, Paper 2-30
marks, Paper 3-45 marks.
Paper 1 (1/2 hour)
Dictation, A passage of modern French of about 140 words will
be read aloud, first straight through, then in repeated groups, and
finally straight through again.  The candidates will write down the
passage in French during the reading of the rated groups.  After the
final reading five minutes will be allowed for revision.
The intention of this paper is to test the candidates’ grasp of the
orthography and grammatical structure of French by requiring them
to relate the language as written to the language as spoken.
Paper 2 (1 hour)
(a) Listening comprehension (1/2 hour) (15 marks).  There
will be 15 questions in English on a passage of modern
French about 300 words long.  The passage will be read
aloud three times.  Once right through a second time in
three sections, and finally right through again.  The
candidates will write their answers in English.
The intention of this part of paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of spoken French.  They will
be expected to understand the passage as a whole as well
as significant details.
(b) Reading comprehension (1/2 hour) (15 marks).  There
will be 15 questions in English on a printed passage of
French about 350 words long.  The candidates will write
their answers in  English.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the candidates’
understanding or written French.  They will be expected to
understand the passage as a whole as well as significant details, and
to show some appreciation of idiom and usage.
Paper 3 ( 1  ½ hours)
(a) Translation from French (10 marks).  A Passage of modern
French of about 140 words will be set for the candidates
to translate into English.  The passage will consist of
narrative, description or conversation, or any combination
of these.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of a passage of written French
and their ability to render the text accurately into
acceptable English.
(b) Either Structured composition (20 marks).  An outline
situation or a description of an incident or a dialogue or
some other form of written stimulus material in French
will be given.  The candidates will be required to write
about 140 words in French, directly related to this material.
They may be required, for example, to fill out the details
of an outline or recount an incident from a point of view
other than that given, or compose a dialogue; or
Translation into French (20 marks).  A passage of English
of about 140 words will be set for the candidates to
translate into French.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ ability to write accurance French within defined
limits.
(c) Free composition (15 marks).  Two subjects, one of which
will be a series of pictures, will be set.  The candidates will
be required to choose one of these on which to write about
120 words in French.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1995
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ capacity to express ideas freely in accurate
French on a given subjects, using a variety of vocabulary
and idiom.
Syllabus Guidelines :
The following notes are designed to give teachers an idea of the
scope of the Ordinary Level French question papers.  The notes are
not intended to be comprehensive but they provide guidance on the
linguistic content of the examination.
Knowledge of and ability to use, the structures listed below
may be tested in any language areas within the normal range of the
imaginative or real experience of the average school pupil of 15 or
16.  It would clearly be impossible to produce a comprehensive list
of such areas but they would include the family, school, life in town
and country, transport and travel, shopping, eating and drinking,
holidays, sport, usual professions and occupations.
The language of Ordinary Level, as compared with Advanced
Level, is more straight forward and does not involve very complex
description or complicated intellectual processes.  The registers are
narrative with simple description, or conversation; a very colloquial
flavour, as well as a very literary of technical flavour, is avoided.  It
should, however, be noted that where no production of French is
required (e.g. in Paper 2) the language may will be more complex
and may contain some lexical items not necessarily actively known
by pupils for whom the examination is intended.
1. Formation and use of all regular and common irregular verbs,
including reflexives, in all simple and compound tenses of
the indicative (excluding the subjective for active use) ;
interrogative, negative and imperative forms; passive and
avoidance of the passive; participles, infinitive, common
impersonal verbs ; agreement of participles; government of
verbs ; inversion.
2. Pronouns  – Conjunctive, disjunctive, demonstrative,
common indefinite, interrogative, possessive, relative and
use of memo in lui-meme etc., en ; position on pronouns ;
use of tu and on.
3. Articles  -  Use of the definite, indefinite and partitive.
4. Nouns  -  Gender and number, single and compound, common
forms of feminines of occupations and animals.
5. Adjectives – Qualifying, numeral, demonstrative, indefinite,
interrogative, negative, possessive, compound, masculine /
feminine and plural forms (of regular and common irregular
adjectives), comparative and superlative, agreement and
position ; adverbial use ( e.g. tout and parler fort).
6. Adverbs – Form and position, comparative and superlative ;
adverb phrases (e.g. avec plaisir) ; negative expressions.
7. Conjunctions in common use,
8. Prepositions – In common use, including those with verbs
and adjectives and in adjectival phrases (e.g. unemontre en
or) ; prepositional phrases (e.g. Au bout de, en train de)
common idiomatic uses like couvert de and prendredans ;
use of depuis.
9. Time by the clock, dates, numbers and distance measurement.
10. Weather expressions.
11. Expressions of quantity.
12. Common idioms ( e.g. expressions with avoir, il y a = ago,
venir de) :  exclamatory phrases (e.g. commune il fait beau !).
JAPANESE 7623
Syllabus :
There will be one three hour paper, containing ;
(a) Translation into English from romanised Japanese.
(b) Translation   into Japanese (romanised or Japanese script)
(c) Rewriting in Japanese Kana* script of passages or words
in romanised Japanese.
(d) Translation into romanised Japanese of sentences chosen
to test grammatical knowledge.
(e) Free composition in Japanese (romanised or Japanese
script) on one of three subjects.
The romanisation used in setting this paper will be the modified
Hepburn system as used in Kenkyushas New Japanese – English
Dictionary (4
th Edition 1974) but candidates may use this or the
Kunreisikiromanisation.  Long vowels may be indicated by doubling
(e.g. roomaji, roomazi) or by overlining  (e.g. romaji, romazi).
* Candidates will be expected to be able to write and to use
correctly the two syllabaries (hirugana and kutakana).  A
recommended book for this is P .G.O" Neill.  Japanese Kana
Workbook (Kodansha International, Tokyo, 1967).
CHINESE 7609
This subject may be taken at the May/June examination only.
The examination will consist
(a) Translation into English ;
(b) Translation into Chinese ;
(c) Translation into Chinese of sentences chosen to test
grammatical knowledge ;
(d) Free composition on one of three subjects.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1996
GERMAN 7233
In writing German, candidates will not be required to use B, but
candidates who use B, will be expected to use it correctly.
The examination  :
The examination will consist of two written papers.  The
allocation of marks is as follows: paper 1-15 marks, Paper 2-70
marks.
Paper 1 (1 hour)
(a) Dictation (1/2 hour) (5 marks) - A passage of modern
German of about 100 words will be read aloud, first straight
through, then in repeated groups, and finally straight
through again.  The candidates will write down the passage
in German during the reading of the repeated groups.  After
the final reading, five minutes will be allowed for revision.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ grasp of the orthography and grammatical
structure of German by requiring them to relate the language
as written to the language as spoken.
(b) Listening comprehension  (1/2 hour) (10 marks). - The
candidates will hear a narrative or descriptive German
passage which may contain dialogue, of about 200-250
words.  They will then write answers in English to
questions printed in English in the paper.  The questions
will be concerned with information essential to the
understanding of the passage as a whole, but the candidates
will also be expected to show that they have graped
necessary points of detail.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of spoken German.
Paper 2 (2 ¼ hours)
(a) Translation from German  (21 marks)  -  The candidates
will be required to translate a piece of German prose of
about 150-200 words into English.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of written German and their
ability to render the text accurately into acceptable English.
(b) Directed production (17 marks) – A passage of German of
about 200-250 words will be printed in the paper, followed
by questions in German.  The candidates will be asked to
read the passage carefully, and then write answers in
German to the question on it.  They will be expected to
write about 100 words of German.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidate’s ability to write accurately and relevantly in
German.
(c) Essays – The candidates will be required to write two
essays in German.  For the first essay, of about 120 words,
the candidates will be required to write on the precise
content of a series of pictures, using past tenses (20 marks)
for the second essay, of about 100 words, there will be a
choice of two general topics which may be narrative,
description, dialogue or a letter (12 marks).
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ capacity to express ideas in accurate German
on a given subject using a variety of vocabulary and idiom.
Syllabus Guidelines :
The following syllabus guidelines list those structures, rules
and expressions which Ordinary Level candidates should be able to
use actively.  All the items featured may not necessarily appear in
any one examination.  The list is not all-inclusive, but is a basic
outline, and any one examination may include other items within
the scope of Ordinary Level candidates.
As the candidates’ comprehension will exceed their productive
skills and they can be expected to understand hitherto unfamiliar
grammatical and lexical items within a context, structures not listed
here, but considered appropriate by the examiners, may also be
included.
The examination does not require knowledge of specialist or
technical vocabulary or dialect, but of modern everyday language
used for narrative, description or conversation.  The areas in which
the language will be tested lie within the normal range of experience
of the average 15 to 16 year old pupil and will include the family,
home, school, town, country and seaside, transport and travel,
theatre and cinema, shopping, sport, usual professions and
occupation, hobbies and pastime, common domestic and wild
animals, common plants and flowers, simple geographical facts,
nationalities and languages, common illnesses and accidents and
reference to doctor, dentist and hospital.
1. Verbs :  Strong ;  weak;  mixed;  modal  ‘compound;  reflexive;
impersonal, singular and plural;  all persons.  indicative
active-present, future, imperfect, perfect, pluperfect.
Indicative passive-present, imperfect.subjunctive active-
imperfect of following verbs only;  sein, haben, werden,
konnen, sollen, mogen.  Interrogative and imperative forms.
Infinitive-with and without zu;  with um..zu Verbs
governing accusative.  Verbs governing dative.’Verbs
governing accusative and dative.
2. Articles :  Definite and indefinite ;  singular and plural
(definite):  all cases;  all genders.
3. Nouns  :  Singular and plural;  all cases;  all genders.
4. Pronouns :  Personal – singular and plural ; nominative,
accusative, dative.  Indefinite-man (nominative);  jemand
(uninflected);  niemand (uninflected);  etwas;  nichts.
Interrogative-wer ?was ?  (nominative)  Demonstrative-
das.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1997
Relative – all gendees ;  singular and plural ;  (nominative,
accusative).  Reflexive-singular and plural;  all persons;
(accusative, dative).
5. Adjectives :  Demonstrative – singular and plural;  all cases;
all genders.  possessive-singular and plural;  all cases;  all
genders;  Qualifying-perdicative, uninflected.  Attributive-
strong/weak inflections and invariable;  singular and plural;
all cases;  all genders.  Interrogative-was fur ?  Comparative
and superlative.
6. Indefinite adjective – pronouns
Exhaustives – kein – all – jed – beid -
Quantitives – wenig (e) ;einig -; viel (e);
Ander -;  genug-;  melir, mehrereinbiBchen;
Einpaar.
7. Adverbs  :  Time;  manner;  place;  interrogative;  negative;
comparative and superlative;  adverbialphreases.
8. Common Pronominal adverbs eg. Darin, damit.
9. Adverbial conjunctions eg. Also nun; doch.
10. Co-ordinating conjunctions
e.g.undaber; denn; oder; sondern.
11. Correlative conjunctions
e.g. weder ………noch; entweder………oder.
12. Common subordinating conjunctions
eg. als; beror; da; daB; nachdem; ob; obgleich; obwohl;
wahrend; weil, wenn.
13. Common prepositions
+ accusative; + dative; + accusative and dative; + genitive
14. Intensifiers: Irgend; gar.
15. Rules of contraction.
16. Numbers; Cardinal; ordinal; adverbs eg. erstens;
complex numerals e.g;. einmal.
17. Time by clock and dates.
18. Expressions of time.
19. Expressions of measurement.
20. Expressions of quantity.
21. Reported statement and indirect questions
22. Orthography
23. Word order
24. Common idioms and exclamations
HINDI 7620
The examination will consist of one 3 hour paper, containing :
(a) Translation into English ;
(b) Translation into Hindi;
(c) Translation into Hindi of sentences chosen to test
grammatical knowledge ;
(d) Free composition on one of three subjects.
SPANISH 7593
In writing Spanish, candidates will be expected to follow the
rules for accentuation published by the Royal Spanish Academy of
Language in 1952, revised in 1958 and declared de application
perceptive from 01st January, 1959.
The Examination :
The examination will consist of two written papers.  The
allocation of marks is as follows: Paper 1-15 marks, paper 2-70
marks.
Paper 1 (hour) :
(a) Dictation (1/2 hour) (5 marks) – A passage of modern
Spanish of about 100 words will be read aloud, first straight
through, then in repeated groups, and finally straight through
again.  The candidates will write down the passage in Spanish
during the reading of the repeated groups.  After the final
reading, five minutes will be allowed for revision.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ grasp of the orthography and grammatical
structure of Spanish by requiring them to relate the language
as written to the language as spoken.
(b) Listening comprehension (1/2 hour) (10 marks) – The
candidates will hear a narrative or descriptive Spanish
passage, which may contain dialogue, of about 200-250
words.  They will then write answers in English to questions
printed in English in the paper.  The questions will be
concerned with information essential to the understanding
of the passage as a whole, but the candidates will also be
expected to show that they have grasped necessary points
of detail.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of spoken Spanish.
Paper 2 (2 hours) :
(a) Translation from Spanish (20 marks) – The candidates will
be required to translate a piece of Spanish prose of about
150-200 words into English.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ understanding of written Spanish and their ability
to render the text accurately into acceptable English.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1998
(b) Directed production (20 marks) – A passage of  Spanish of
about 200-250 words will be printed in the paper, followed
by questions in Spanish.  The candidates will be asked to
read the passage carefully, and then write answers in Spanish
to the questions on it.  They will be expected to write about
100 words of Spanish.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ ability to write accurately and relevantly in
Spanish.
(c) Essay (30 marks)  -  The candidates will be required to write
one essay of about 150 words in  Spanish.  The candidates
will have a choice of three subjects:  there will be a series of
pictures, a dialogue or a letter, and another subject.
The intention of this part of the paper is to test the
candidates’ capacity to express ideas freely in accurate
Spanish on a given subject using a variety of vocabulary and
idiom.
Syllabus Guidelines :
The following notes are designed to give teachers an idea of the
scope of the Ordinary level Spanish question papers.  The notes
intended to be comprehensive but they provide guidance on the
linguistic content of the examination.
Knowledge of an ability to use the structures listed below may
be tested in any language area within the normal range of the
imaginative or real experience of the average school pupil of 15 or
16.  It would clearly be impossible to produce a comprehensive list
of such areas but they would include the family, school, life in town
and country, transport and travel, shopping, eating and drinking,
holidays, sport, usual professions and occupations.
The language of Ordinary Level, as compared with Advanced
Level, is more straight forward and does not involve very complex
description or complicated intellectual process.  The registers are
narrative with simple description, or conversation;  a very colloquial
flavour, as well as a very literary or technical flavour, is avoided.  It
should however, be noted that where no production of Spanish is
required the language may well be more complex and may contain
some lexical items not necessarily actively known by pupils for
whom the examination is intended.
1. Formation and use of all regular and common irregular verbs,
including radical and orthographical changing verbs and
reflexives, in all tenses of the indicative and subjective (the
subjunctive will be required for active use only in common
situations such as ; in its imperative use ;  after verbs of
feeling;  in straight forward conditional clauses, in future
temporary clauses; after common conjunctions like paraque,
sin que, comosi, etc.); interrogative, negative and imperative
forms; passive and avoidance of the passive; participles,
infinitive, gerund; common impersonal verbs.  Use of ser
and estar.
2. Pronouns: conjunctive, disjunctive, demonstrative, common
indefinite, interrogative, possessive, relative; position of
pronouns; use of se.
3. Articles (definite and indefinite including neuterlo).
4. Nouns : gender and number.
5. Adjectives : qualifying, numeral (cardinals and lower
ordinals), demonstrative, indefinite, interrogative,
possessive, compound, masculine / feminine and plural
forms (of regular and common irregular adjectives),
comparative and superlative; agreement and position;
adverbial use; apocopation.
6. Adverbs:  form and position, comparative and superlative;
adverb phrases; negative expressions.
7. Conjunctions in common use.
8. Prepositions in common use, with special reference to
differences between Spanish and English usage; por and
para; personal a.
9. Expressions of time, date, age, distance, quantity and
weather.
10. Common idioms ( e.g. (desssde) hace ; hay que etc.).
10-379
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT TO THE POSTS OF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER/LABORATORY
ASSISTANT/FARM MANAGER – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified persons to fill the vacancies in the following posts, existing in the Department of Tec hnical
Education and Training.
1 Technology Officer (Civil/Mechanical) 08

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
1999
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium
2 Laboratory Assistant 37 08
3 Farm Manager 02 –
02. Closing date of applications will be on 11.11.2013 and all qualifications, mentioned in the Gazette Notification, relevant to
each post, should have been fulfilled on such date.
03. Qualifications and other provisions for each post, as follows :
(a) Technology Officer (Civil/Mechanical) :
(i) Educational Qualifications :
1. Should have passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in one sitting in six (06) subjects with credit passes
for Sinhala/Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics and one any other subject ; and
2. Passed all subjects (except the General Common Test) in G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination in one sitting
Science/Mathematics streams with two (02) subjects of relevant field (Should have passed three (03) subjects
in one sitting under the old syllabus).
(ii) Vocational Qualifications :
Applicants should have obtained a National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) level 5 skills, as decides by the Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission, as follows relevant to the post.
1. National Diploma in technology awarded by the recognized University ;
or
2. National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the National Apprentise and Industrial Training Authority ;
or
3. Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technology, affliated
to the Ministry, incharge of Higher Education Subject ;
or
4. Successfully completed the part I of the Engineering examination, held by the Institute of Engineers, Sri Lanka ;
or
5. Other Technological qualifications which should be recognized by the Sri Lanka Technological Service Board
that fully equivalent to the above technological qualifications, after derived the information from the Ministry
of Higher Education and from the Institutions, which issued the above Technology certificates.
(iii) Service Experience.– Service experience of related field will be considered as additional qualification.
(iv) Salary.– In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(IV).
Salary Code No. - MN-3-2006 (A)
Salary Scale - Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11x 320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885.
(v) Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications (the
upper age limit does not apply to officers already in Public or Provincial Public Service).
(vi) Recruitment procedure.– Recruitment will be made on the results of written examination and structural interview.
Written examination will be held at first and candidates who passed the examination and got highest marks based on
the merit order of the results of written examination will be called for an interview as equal to twice the no of existing
vacancies. Appointment will be made for number of vacancies available based on merit order according to the total
marks of structural interview and written examination.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
2000
Written examination :
Name of the question No. of Maximum Pass Syllabus
paper hours marks marks
1. General Knowledge and 01 100% 40% Short question paper to assess knowledge in present social
General Inteligence situations, international situations and capability of
creative thinking, ability to solve and analyse problems,
time management.
2. Technological Knowledge 03 100% 40% Should answer 05 questions out of 08 that assess technology
and knowledge affliated to and subject knowledge relevant to the post. Same marks
the subject will  be given for all questions.
Structural Interview :
Main headings, to be given marks Maximum Marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 15
Additional V ocational Qualifications 25
Experience 30
Computer Knowledge 15
Proficiency in English Language 10
Skills, at the Interview 05
Total 100
(b) Laboratory Assistant  :
(i) Educational Qualifications :
1. Should have passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in one sitting in six (06) subjects with 04 credit
passes for language, Mathematics, Science and one any other subject ; and
2. Should have passed all subjects (except the General Common Test) in G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination,
Science stream and obtained qualifying level, need to follow tertiary education course. (Should have passed
three (03) subjects in one sitting under the old sylalbus is sufficient).
(ii) Vocational Qualifications :
Should have followed a course relevant to Technology field, National V ocational Qulaifications (NVQ) level 6 from an
institution, recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission and obtained certificate
(iii) Service Experience. – Should have engaged in service not less than 02 years in the relevant field in a government or
recognized institution.
(iv) Salary.– In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(IV).
Salary Code No. - MT-2-2006 (A)
Salary Scale - Rs. 14,750 - 10x170 - 11x180 - 6x240 - 14x320 - Rs. 24,170.
(v) Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age on the closing date of applications (the
upper age limit does not apply to officers already in Public or Provincial Public Service).
(vi) Recruitment procedure. – Recruitment will be made on the results of written examination and structural interview.
Written examination will be held at first and candidates who passed the examination and got highest marks based on
the merit order of the results of written examination will be called for an interview as equal to twice the no of existing
vacancies. Appointments will be made for number of vacancies available based on merit order according to the total
marks of structural interview and written examination.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
2001
Written examination :
Name of the question No. of Maximum Pass Syllabus
paper hours marks marks
1. General Knowledge and 01 100% 40% Short question paper to assess knowledge of present social
General Inteligence situations and international situations and capability of
creative thinking, ability to solve problems,
2. Technological Knowledge 02 100% 40% Should answer 05 questions out of 08 which prepared to
assess technological knowledge related to the post. Same
marks will be given for all questions.
Structural Interview :
Main headings, to be given marks Maximum Marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 25
Additional V ocational Qualifications 20
Extra Experience 30
Proficiency in English Language 10
Computer ability 10
Skills, at the Interview 05
Total 100
(c) Farm Manager :
(i) Educational Qualifications :
Should have passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in one sitting in six (06) subjects with credit passes for
Sinhala/Tamil/English language Mathematics and any two subjects ;
(ii) Vocational Qualifications :
1. Should have followed a course in Agricultural field, National V ocational Qulaification (NVQ) level 5 from an
institution, recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission and obtained a certificate ;
or
2. Should have obtained the Diploma certificate in agriculture from Agricultural Colleges at Kundasale,
Angunukolapellessa, Pelwehera ;
or
3. Should have obtained National Certificate/Diploma in Agriculture, after two years training in Technical College ;
or
4. Should have obtained National Diploma Certificate in Agricultural Science, awarded by Sri Lanka Institute of
Advanced Technology ;
or
5. Should have obtained Diploma Certificate in Agriculture of Aquinas College.
(iii) Service Experience. – Should have engaged in service and obtained experience of not less than one (01) year in a
government or government registered institution in Agricultural field.
(iv) Salary.– In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(IV).
Salary Code No. - MT-1-2006(A)
Salary Scale - Rs. 14,425 - 10x145 - 11x170 - 6x240 - 14x320 - Rs. 23,665.
(v) Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age on the closing date of applications (the
upper age limit does not apply to officers already in Public or Provincial Public Service).
(vi) Recruitment procedure.– Recruitment will be made on the results of written examination and structural interview.
Written examination will be held at first and candidates who passed the examination and got highest marks based on

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
2002
the merit order of the results of written examination will be called for an interview as equal to twice the number of
existing vacancies. Appointments will be made for number of vacancies available based on merit order according to the
total marks of structural interview and written examination.
Written examination :
Name of the question No. of Maximum Pass Syllabus
paper hours marks marks
1. General Knowledge and 01 100% 40% Short question paper to assess knowledge of present social
General Inteligence situations and intern ational situations and capability to
creative thinking and analitical ability.
2. Agriculture 02 100% 40% Question paper prepared relevant to the field of crop
production, pest control, live stock and poultry keeping,
combine Agriculture, farm herd diseases and fish industry.
Structural Interview :
Main headings, to be given marks Maximum Marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 25
Additional V ocational Qualifications 20
Extra Experience 30
Proficiency in English Language 10
Computer ability 10
Skills, at the Interview 05
Total 100
04. All applicants who apply for above referred posts, should be a citizen of Sri Lanka with excellent moral character and
physically fit and they should be physically and mentaly fit to serve in any part of the island.
05. Method of forwarding applications :
(i) Applications prepared according to the under mentioned specimen form in A4 size paper using both side with items
No. 01 to 07 appearing in 1st page, No. 8 to 10 in 2nd page and the other matters in next pages, duly filled in his/her
own hand writing, should be sent under registered cover to reach the "Director General, Department of Technical
Education and Training, P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10" before 11.11.2013. The envelope, enclosing
the application should be clearly marked "Application for the post of .............................." (relevant post should be
mentioned) on the top left hand corner.
(ii) Applications which are of non compliance with specimen application and include incomplete perticulars and
applications, received after the closing date of applications will not be entertained. Applicants are advised to send
their applications in time to avoid the possibility of postal delay.
(iii) Separate applications should be submitted for the above posts.
(iv) Application should be completed in language medium of examination.
(v) The fee for a post is Rs. 400 and examination fee should be paid for each post separately. This fee should be paid at
any People's Bank Branch to theAccount No. 176-100-139026228. (Mid City Branch) as credited to the Director
General, Department of Technical Education and Training. The receipt obtained should be firmly affixed in the
application form. It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the application and a receipt. Examination fee will not be
refunded under any circumstances and money orders and stamps will not be accpeted.
(vi) Candidates should attest their signature by a Principal of Government school, a Grama Niladari of a Division a Justice
of a Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, a
permanent staff officer in Public or Provincial Public Serivce with an annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or
above, or a chief incumbent or a chief priest of a Buddhist temple, or a distinguish person, incharge of a holy place of
any other religion.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
2003
(vii) Officers, who are already in Public or Provincial Public Service should submit applications through their Heads of
Department.
(viii) Self addressed envelope in the size of 23cm x 10cm with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 30 should be enclosed to
the application form to post the Admission Card of Examination to candidates.
(ix) Candidature will be repealed if any information, mentioned in the application being detected as incorrect before the
recruitment. If such information being detected offer the recruitment action will be taken to dismissal from the service.
(x) Applications should not be sent to the name of any officer of the Department and any application sent, do so or hand
over personally will not be accepted. Inquiries about applications lost or delayed in post, will not be considered.
Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
06. Implementation of Official Languages Policy .– Proficiency in other official language of relevant level should be obtained,
within 5 years from the date of appointment as per Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and consequential circulars of it .
07. Conditions of employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and should contribute to the Widows and Orphans/Widowers and Orphans
Pension Fund.
(ii) Candidates should liable to serve in any College of Technology/Technical College, comes under the purview of this
Department, as would be stipulated.
(iii) Selected candidates should adhere to the provisions in scheme of recruitment already approved, relevant to the post,
amendments, would be made, provisions in Establishments Code, Financial Regulations and to the rules and regulations
issued by the Government or Line Ministry or Director General of the Department of Technical Education and
Training.
(iv) General conditions and provisions, mentioned in the Procedural Rules published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1,589 dated 20.02.2009 by the Public Service Commission will be entitled.
08. Examination Procedure :
(i) An admission card will be issued by the Director General of Department of Technical Education and Training to the
candidates who sent applications formally. Candidates, appearing for the examination in prescribed examination hall,
should submit their admission card, with their signature, duly attested, to the supervisor of the examination hall.
Permission will not be granted to any candidate, without submitting the admission card to sit the examination.
(ii) No traveling expenses or any other allowances, incure by the candidates for appearing for this examination will be
paid.
(iii) Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall, relating to every
subject they appear in the examination hall. Any one of the following documents only, will be accepted for this
purpose :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ; or
(b) A valid passport.
(iv) Examination will be held in only Sinhala and Tamil medium. Permission will not be granted later to change the language
medium applied.
(v) All candidates who paid prescribed fee and submitted applications on or before the prescribed date, will be allowed
by the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training to sit the competitive examination on
prior conclusion that the candidates who have qualifications mentioned in the notification for calling applications,
only have applied. Appearing for competitive examination, will not be treated as an acceptance of the fulfillment of
qualifications.
(vi) Candidates will subject to the rules and regulations, stipulated by the Director General of Department of Technical
Education and Training, relating to the conduct of the examination.
(vii) This examination will be conducted by the testing and evaluation division of the Department of Technical Education
and Training at the examination centres in Colombo only.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
2004
09. Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training reserves the right to fill all or a part of the
vacancies.
S. BALASUBRAMANIY AM,
Director General.
Department of Technical Education and Training,
Colombo 10,
18th September, 2013.
A
PPLICATION FORM
For office use
COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT TO THE POST OF ..................................... IN THE DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Language Medium for the examination :
Sinhala  - 1 Tamil  - 2
01. Name of the candidate :
(i) Name with initials, initials at the end (In block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
(Eg. SILV A  A. B. C.)
(ii) Full name (In block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
(iii) Full name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. Address and telephone number :
(i) Official Address :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(ii) Private address :––––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
(Any change in the address or telephone number, should be informed immediately)
03. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––––.
04. Age as at closing date of application :
Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.
06. Sex : Male/Female :––––––––––––.
07. Whether Married/Unmarried/Widow :––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications :
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination : G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––––.  Index No. :––––––––––––. Year :––––––––––––.  Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.10.2013
2005
09. V ocational qualifications :
Examination/Diploma Year Subjects Grade Name of the Institute/University
10. Perticulars of experience :
Department/Institute, worked Post Period of Service Whether, Government/Semi Government/Private
11. Highest examination passed in following subject :
Sinhala :––––––––––––.
Tamil :––––––––––––.
English :––––––––––––.
12. (i) If you are a citizen of Sri Lanka state by decent or registration (If registration, state details) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Race (indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
Sinhalese 1 Sri Lankan Tamil 2 Sri Lanka Muslim 3
Indian Origin 4 Others 5
13. Whether you have been dismissed from government post, that you had been holding ? :––––––––––––.
14. If you are already in Public Service, are there any department deciplinary inquiry against you ? :––––––––––––.
15. Whether you have been convicted in a court ? If so, state details :––––––––––––.
16. Peoples’ Bank branch which examination fee has been paid :––––––––––––.
Date of payment :––––––––––––.
Receipt should be firmly affixed here
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this applciation are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particu lars
contained there in are found to be false and incorrect before the selection I am liable to disqualify and dismissal, without co mpensation,
if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
(This part is applicable only for candidates who engage in government employment) :
Attestation of the Head of the Department/Institution
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who is working in the Ministry/Department/Institution of
.......................... is working in the post of .......................................... and his/her work and conduct are satisfactory, no deciplinary action
pending against him/her and no decision has been taken to impose any such in future and the correct examination fee has been paid and the
receipt for the same is affixed he/she can/cannot be released, from service once he/she is selected for the post applied for.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department of Authorized Officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
10–323
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.