

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1851$1 - 2014 fmnrjdß ui 24 jeks i÷od - 2014'02'24
No. 1851/1  - MONDAY , FEBRUARY  24,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
1A
Direction No. 49
CONSUMER  AFFAIRS  AUTHORITY  ACT,  No. 09  OF  2003
Direction under Section 10(1)(a)
ACTING under the powers vested in it by Section 10(1)(a)  of the Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No. 09 of 2003, the
Consumer Affairs Authority hereby directs all manufacturers, distributers, traders and importers of the Products specified in
the schedule hereunder, to comply with the procedure set out in this direction :
(1) No Products shall be manufactured, imported, distributed, transported, stored, sold offered for sale in wholesale
or in retail unless a security stamp, obtained from the Consumer Affairs Authority is affixed on each and every pack, container
or the wrapper of those Products.
(2) Every manufacturer or importer of Products shall ensure that security stamps are affixed on each and every pack,
container or the wrapper of such Products, prior to the release of such Products for distribution to traders and/or consumers.
(3) For the Products manufactured in Sri Lanka the automated equipment necessary for the system implementation
shall be installed in the factories of the manufacturers solely by the authorized service provider. Such manufacturer shall
provide the infrastructure and other facilities  required by the authorized service provider for the installation of the automated
equipment. Manufacturers shall also permit the authorized service provider to have access to its production facilities during
normal operating and maintenance hours for purposes of installation of the equipment and carrying out general maintenance
of and repairs to the equipment.
(4) Importers shall ensure that security stamps are affixed on each and every pack, container or the wrapper of such
Products by the foreign manufacturer abroad or by the importer at the customs warehouse, prior to the release of such
Products to the Sri Lankan market.
(5) Manufacturers or importers of the Products shall obtain the required amount of security stamps from the
Consumer Affaris Authority and declared the affixation of security stamps of each and every pack, container or the wrapper
of such Products through a website nominated by the Consumer Affairs Authority.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.- Gazette Extraordinary Series No. 1850/1 ends with 1850/55.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
2A
(6) The procedure to be followed by the manufactures and importers of Products to obtain security stamps for
affixation thereof on each and every pack, container or the wrapper of such Products, shall be as follows :-
(a) Manufacturers and importers shall provide a twelve (12) month security stamp demand forecast to the
Consumer Affairs Authority, every first (1st) business day of each quarter, defining the product type and
number of secure stamps required for the period ;
(b) Manufacturers and importers shall place orders for security stamps by using a secure web interface connected
to a central database maintained by the Consumer Affairs Authority. In the case of importers, the order must
also specify the foreign manufacturer/exporter of the Products to be imported to Sri Lanka ;
(c) The Consumer Affairs Authority shall, at its direction, reject any order placed by the manufacturers and/or
importers, if such manufacturer and/or importer has contravened or failed to adhere to and comply with the
provisions of the Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No. 9 of 2003 or any directions or orders issued
thereunder ;
(d) For the services rendered by the authorized service provider in developing the security stamps to be
provided by the Consumer Affairs Authority to the manufacturers and importers of Products in terms hereof,
a fee set by the Consumer Affairs Authority shall be payable by the manufacturers and importers to the
authorized service provider for each security stamp ;
(e) Upon approval by the Consumer Affairs Authority of any order made by a manufacturer or an importer, the
authorized service provider shall issue an invoice, no longer than three (3) business days after the order
approval, to the manufacturer or the importer for the fees referred to in (d) above ;
(f) Upon the settlement of such invoice in full, the manufacturer or the importer, as the case may be, shall be
notified by the authorized service provider that the security stamps specified in the order are ready for
collection and the manufacturer or the importer, as the case may be, may thereafter collect the security
stamps from the Consumer Affairs Authority.
(7) For the purpose of this Direction :
(i) "Products" shall mean the articles specified in the Schedule to this Direction ;
(ii) "authorized service provider" shall mean any service provider authorized in writing by the Consumer Affairs
Authority to develop the security stamps provided by the Consumer Affairs Authority  to the manufacturers
and importers of Products and to provide related hardware, software and other automated equipment to
manufacturers and importers in accordance with this Direction to facilitate system implementation ;
(iii) "foregin manufacturer/exporter" shall mean the manufacturer or the exporter, as the case may be, outside Sri
Lanka of Products imported into Sri Lanka ;
(iv) "importer" shall mean a trader within the meaning of the Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No. 9 of 2003, who
imports Products for purposes of sale or supply ;
(v) "quarter" shall mean any three (3) months period in a calendar year commencing respectively on 1st January,
1st April, 1st July and 1st October.
This Direction shall be effective from 1st of August 2014.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
3A
SCHEDULE
PRODUCTS ON WHICH SECURITY STAMPS MUST BE AFFIXED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS DIRECTION
(1) Soft Drinks ;
(2) Bottled Water/Bottled Mineral Water ;
(3) Branded Edible oil ;
(4) Toothpaste ;
(5) All tyes of Soap ;
(6) Shampoo ;
(7) Paint ;
(8) Electric Switches, Sockets, Circuit Breakers.
By Order of the Consumer Affairs Authority,
R
UMY MARZOOK,
Chairman.
Colombo,
24th February, 2014.
03 - 250
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.