

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SEYYED SHEIKH KOYA THANGAL MOWLANA
FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Faizal Cassim M. P. for Digamadulla District
on February 08, 2012
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the Seyyed Sheikh Koya Thangal Mowlana Foundation
——————
——————
[Bill No. 149]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on January 23, 2012)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Seyyed Sheikh Koya Thangal Mowlana Foundation
(Incorporation)
2—PL 006481—  75 (01/2012)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SEYYED SHEIKH KOYA THANGAL
MOWLANA  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Foundation called and known as the "Seyyed
Sheikh Koya Thangal Mowlana Foundation" has heretofore
been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by
its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Seyyed Sheikh Koya
Thangal Mowlana   Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.   of
2012.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Seyyed Sheikh Koya Thangal Mowlana  Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate  with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the "Seyyed Sheikh
Koya Thangal Mowlana   Foundation" (hereinafter referred
to as the "Corporation") and by that name may sue and be
sued with full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Seyyed
Sheikh Koya
Thangal
Mowlana
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Seyyed Sheikh Koya Thangal Mowlana Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and
Cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka;
(b) to  establish thakkiyas, Arabic Theological
Colleges and Orphanages for boys;
(c) to manage and run the institutions that are already
in existence such as Kattankudy Muhiyaddeen
Thakkiya, Kankeyanodai, Muhiyadeen Thakkiya
(in Batticaloa District) Masjidur Riffaiyyi and
Arabic Theological College and Muslim Orpange
there is known as Madrasathul and Muslim Orpange
in Kandy District;
(d) to Manage the establishments and Institutions that
have been founded by Seyyed Sheikh Koya Thangal
the Predecessor of present Spiritual leader Seyyed
Mohamed Buhary Nalla Koya Thangal;
(e) to promote the true creed of Islam as per Sunnathul
Jamaath Doctrines;
(f) to foster the spirit of unity and to promote goodwill
and friendship among Muslims and other
communities;
(g) to organize public Religious Lectures on Islamic
Subject;
(h) to work for the Religious and secular Educational
curricula for the welfare of the Muslims;
(i) to  organize Birthday and Anniversary celebration
of Holy Phopher (sal) and Corporatons and Savants
of Islam;
30
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Seyyed Sheikh Koya Thangal Mowlana Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(j) to  promote social and cultural activities for
enriching different and for integrating the
Sri Lankan communities;
(k) to assist in the development of educational,
Religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, and to conduct various
festival and competitions;
(l) to provide medical relief and food for the poor,
destitute and sick persons, establish and maintain
houses for displaced persons and elders and
establish and maintain Children's homes and day
care centers for children and elders;
(m) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects;
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things what
so ever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable, or immovable, to open operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds,
to erect any building or structures on any land held by the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman and a Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with such
rules.
30
General
Power of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Seyyed Sheikh Koya Thangal Mowlana Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Holiness
Mohamed Seyyad Buhary Nalla  Koya Thangal
shall he the Chairman of the Board of Directors for
life and thereafter, the family succsessors to him
shall become the next Chairman of the Board of
Directors;
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting  and by a majority of not
less than two-thirds of the members present and voting to
make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
or other written law for all or any of the following matters:–
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
subscription and fees payable, expulsion or
resignation;
(b) the term of office of the Board of Governors the
resignation or removal from officer of such
members, the filling of vacancies and election of
such members;
(c) the procedure to be followed at the meetings of the
Board, Annual General Meetings, the summoning
and the quorum of such meetings and conduct of
the business thereat;
(d) the powers, conduct duties and functions of various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation
including their terms and conditions of service;
(e) the administration and management of assets,
properties of the Foundation and custody of funds;
and
(f) such other things as may be necessary for the
attainment of the object of the Foundation.
(2) Any rule made by the  Foundation may be amended,
or rescinded  in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).
Rules of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Seyyed Sheikh Koya Thangal Mowlana Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(3) All members of the Foundation shall be subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Foundation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have tis own fund and
moneys received by the Fund of the way of testamentary
dispositions,  transfers, donations shall be deposited in the
name of the Corporation in one or more banks as the Life
Patrons shall determine.
(2) All expenses borne by the Corporation in the exercise
and discharge of power and functions of the Corporation
shall be paid out from the fund.
8. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper account to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of purchase hold,
grants, gift, testamentary disposition immovable or otherwise
and such property shall be held by the Corporaton for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in immovable
force for the time being of the Corporation and it shall have
the full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
10. The seal of the Coporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of office
bearers as may be provided for in the rules of the Corporation,
who shall sing their names to the instrument in token of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
30
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Seyyed Sheikh Koya Thangal Mowlana Foundation
(Incorporation)
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
5
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, or
corporate or of any other persons expect such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Seyyed Sheikh Koya Thangal Mowlana Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .