

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2033
2033
wxl 1"833 - 2013 Tlaf;dan¾ 17 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'10'17
No. 1,833 – THURSDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2036
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2041
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— (i) Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,832 of 11.10.2013 was not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th November, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th
October, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2034
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2035
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2036
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Posts of Stenographer (Sinhala/English) in the
Labour Tribunals
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the
undermentioned qualifications for recruitment of 58 Stenographers
(Sinhala) and 01 Stenographer (English) in the offices of the Labour
Tribunals of the Ministry of Justice.
01. Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed the Senior
School Certificates Examination with four (04) credit passes or should
have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination with not less than six
(06) subjects in two sittings with at least five (05) subjects in one
sitting with four (04) credit passes including language and ordinary
passes for Arithmetic or Pure Mathematics or Commercial Arithmetic
or Basic Mathematics.
02. Professional Qualifications.– Should have followed a course
in Stenography for not less than six (06) months in a recognized
institution ; or
Should have obtained a credit pass for typewriting and shorthand
at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
03. Physical fitness :
1. Should be of sound mental and physical health to serve in
any part of the island.
2. Should be of sound physical fitness to perform the duties in
the post.
04. General Qualifications :
1. The applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
2. Should bear an excellent moral character ; and
3. Should attach the photocopies of the certificates with the
application in proof of eligibility.
05. Age limit.– Applicant should not be less than 18 years of age
and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of application.
06. Salary Scale :
MN 1-2006A.
Monthly salary.– Rs. 13,120 - 10x145 - 11x 170 - 10x240 -
10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
07. Method of Recruitment. – The qualified applicants will be
recruited in order of merit at the practical test and the structural
interview conducted by the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice or
any other institute authorized by the Secretary to the Ministry of
Justice. The appointments will be made according to the number of
existing vacancies.
08. Nature of duties.– Taking down in short hand and typewriting
of proceedings of the Labour Tribunals and any other duties assigned
by the Head of the Tribunal.
09. Terms of Engagement :–
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution to
the Widows' and Orphans Pension Scheme/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme should be made.
(b) The Efficiency Bar Examination for this post will be
conducted twice a year by the Secretary to the Ministry
of Justice.
10. The application should be prepared as per the specimen form
setout at the end of this application. The duly completed application
should be sent under Registered cover to the following address on or
before 08.11.2013. The words "Post of Stenographer (Sinhala/English)
in the Labour Tribunals" should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope containing the application. The applicants
already in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service should send in
their applications through the Head of the Department/Institution
he/she is attached to.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice,
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
11. Examination fee.– Every applicant should pay Rs. 300 as
examination fee to the credit of the Account No. 176-1001-9-9025-
184. Mid City Branch of the People's Bank in favour of the Secretary
to the Ministry of Justice. The receipt received for the payment
should be affixed to the application. The examination fee is not
refundable.
12. The marking scheme of the structural interview :
Items for which marks are given Maximum marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 10
Additional professional Qualifications 20
Language Proficiency (Sinhala/Tamil/English) 10
Computer literacy 15
Experience 40
Skills shown at the interview 05
Total 100
13. The application should be correctly in all respects.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected without
notice. No allegation that an application and attached documents
have been lost or delayed in the post can be considered.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2037
14. If any particulars furnished in the application are found to be
false or incorrect, he/she is liable to be disquailfied before selection
and to be dismissed from service if the inaccuracy is discovered after
the appointment.
The authority to determine any matter not provided for in this
notice is vested in the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice.
K
AMALINI DE SIL V A,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
POST OF STENOGRAPHER (SINHALA/ENGLISH) IN THE LABOUR TRIBUNALS
No. :––––––––––––.
(For office use only)
01. Name in full :––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil/English)
02. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil/English)
03. Private Address (in Sinhala/Tamil/English) :––––––––––––.
04. Official Address :––––––––––––.
05. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
07. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
08. Age as at 08.11.2013 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––.
09. Sex :––––––––––––.
10. Nationality :––––––––––––.
11. Medium of study :––––––––––––.
12. State whether you apply for the post of Stenographer (Sinhala)
or Stenographer (English) :––––––––––––.
13. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Year :––––––––––––,  Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
14. Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––.
15. Experience :––––––––––––.
16. Other qualifications :––––––––––––.
17. I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect. I am liable to
be disqualified before selection and to be dismissal without any
compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institution
The application of Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................... serving
in this Department/Institution is attached herewith. I inform that if
this officer is selected for the post of Stenographer, he/she can/
cannot be released from the service.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Official Seal.
Date :––––––––––––.
10–513
––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations
RECRUITMENT ON OPEN BASIS FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER (EXECUTIVE GRADE III) IN
 THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOUR – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified Sri Lankan citizens possession the qualifications stated in para 02 as at 15.11.2013 the closing
date of applications, in order to be recruited for 7 posts of Legal Officer in the Department of Labour which comes under the Ministry of
Labour and Labour Relations.
01. Method of Recruitment.– From among the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications stated in the notification, candidates
those obtaining the highest marks at the structured interview conducted by the interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission.
Will be recruited according to the number of vacancies.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2038
1.1 The number appointed for this post and the effective date of the appointment will be decided in terms of the orders of the
Public Service Commission.
1.2 Structured interview will be conducted in accordance with the marking scheme approved by the Public Service Commission,
which is stated under para No. 6 of this notification.
02. Qualifications :
2.1 Educational/professional qualifications :
(i) Should have a Degree in Law obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission ; or
(ii) Should have taken oaths as a Lawyer of Supereme Court.
2.2 Experience :
(i) Should have an active professional experience of not less than 3 years after taken oaths as a Lawyer of Supreme Court.
2.3 Physical Fitness :
(i) Every candidate should have adequate physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge the
duties of the post.
2.4 Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Applicant should possess an excellent character ;
(iii) All the necessary qualifications required for the post should have been fulfilled in every respect as at the date
mentioned in the application calling notification.
03. General terms and conditions of employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute to the Widows/Widower's Orphans Pension Scheme ;
(ii) This appointment is subject to a probation period of 03 years ;
(iii) First Efficiency Bar should be passed before lapse of 3 years from the date of appointment ;
(iv) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and the circulars incidental thereto the relevant language
proficiency in respect of other Official Language should be obtained within 5 years from the date of recruitment to the
post, in addition to the Language in which entered in to the service ;
(v) A selected candidate will be appointed to the Grade III of the service subject to the General Conditions governing the
appointments in Public Service, procedures and rules of Public Service Commissions, FInancial Regulations, Provisions
of Establishments Code and amendments made to them, terms and conditions imposed in the Scheme of Recruitment
approved by the Public Service Commission on 15.02.2013 and subsequent amendments thereto ;
(vi) Selected candidates should serve in any part of the island in which they are called upon to serve.
04. Age Limit.– Candidates should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
05. Salary scale.– The monthly salary attached to this post is Rs. 22,935 -10x645 - 8x790- 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (SL 1-2006) (in
terms of Pubilc Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated 25.04.2006).
06. Under mentioned marking scheme will be based for the strucured interview :
Subject Maximum Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications : 20
Degree in law obtained from a recognized university :
- For First Class Honours 20
- For Second Class Honours (Upper Division) 15
- For Second Class Honours (Lower Division) 10

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2039
For First Class Honours in the final year of Law College 15
For Second Class Honours in the final year of Law College 10
(Marks will be given only for the highest qualification for either Degree or
Law College qualification)
02 Additional professional Qualifications :1 5
For a Post Graduate Diploma in relevant field of not less than one year offered by a
recognized institute or a Post Diploma Course in Law
(05 marks for one Diploma)
For a Diploma Course in relevant field of not less than 06 months offered by a
recognized institute.
(03 marks for one Diploma)
For a Certificate Course in relevant field of not less than 03 months offered
by a recognized institute
(02 marks for one course)
03 Additional Experience : 30
Experience as a Lawyer in Public Service or private sector. Maximum 30 marks
at 05 marks for one year.
(exclusive of 03 years of service period practised as a Lawyer to obtian basic
qualification)
(Additional experience should be proved by a certificate obtained from a Lawyer
who has complete a service period of not less than 20 years or a President's
Counsel or a Judge)
04 Proficiency in English Language :1 5
Post Graduate Degree/Degree/Post Graduate Degree in Law/Bachelor of Laws 15
studied in English medium
(All the relevant question papers should have been answered in English medium)
For a Diploma Course in English Language in a university recognized by 10
University Grants Commission or Government recognized institute
For a Certificate Course in English Language in a university recognized by 05
University Grants Commission or Government recognized institute
05 Knowledge in Information Technology :1 5
For having studied Information Technology as a main subject for a degree of a 15
university recognized by University Grants Commission
For a diploma course in Information Technology of not less than 06 months in 10
a government recognized institute
For a certificate course in Information Technology of not less than 03 months in a 05
government recognized institute
06 Performance at the interview 05
Total marks 100
Subject Maximum Marks

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2040
In the event of several candidates obtaining the same total marks,
the decision shall be taken by the Public Service Commission, which
shall be final.
07. Identity of Candidates :
7.1 Candidates only those who have submitted applications
completed in every respect, will be called for structured
interview.
7.2 The originals of all the certificates and duly certified copies
should be produced at the interview.
7.3 Candidates should produce one of the following Identity
Cards at the interview to prove their identity :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport,
(iii) A valid driving licence.
08. Mode of Application :
8.1 The application form should be in conformity with the
specimen attached to this notification. It should be prepared
on a paper of A4 size in such a manner that item numbers
1-9 appear on the first page and item numbers 10-14 on
the second page and should be filled clearly by the
applicant's own hand writing. The applications which do
not conform to the specimen application form and
incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.
(It might be useful for the applicant to keep a photocopy
of the application).
8.2 Completed applications should be sent by registered post
to reach the Commissioner General of Labour, Department
of Labour, Colombo 05 on or before 15.11.2013. The term
"Recruitment on Open basis for the Post of Legal Officer
in the Department of Labour - 2013" should be mentioned
on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application. Any application received after the closing date
will not be accepted. No complaint on the loss or delay of
applications in the post will be entertained.
8.3 The signature of the candidate in the application form
should have been attested by a Head of Government School,
a Justice of the Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, a Lawyer,
a Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer of the Three
Armed Forces, a Police Officer holding a Gazette post in
the police service or by an officer holding a permanent
post in the public service drawing a monthly consolidated
salary of Rs. 22,935 or more.
09. Furnishing false information.– If any information mentioned
by the candidate in the application is found to be false or incorrect
before recruitment, his candidature will be cancelled. If such false or
incorrect is found after recruitment, actions will be taken to dismiss
him from public service subject to relevant legal procedures.
* Public Service Commission has the power to refrain from
filling some or all of the vacancies and to decide on any
matter not stated herein.
* In the event of a discrepancy between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English copies of this notification, the Sinhala version
shall prevail.
By order of Public Service Commission.
W. J. L. U. W
IJAYAWEERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations.
Labour Secretariat,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(For office use only)
RECRUITMENT ON OPEN BASIS FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER (EXECUTIVE
GRADE III) IN THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOUR - 2013
01. 1.1 Name with initials at the end :–––––––––––––.
(English capital letters) Ex. : Silva A, B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
(English capital letters)
1.3 Name in full  (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
02. 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
(English capital letters)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Official address :–––––––––––––.
(English capital letters)
03. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant figure in the box)
04. Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant figure in the box)
05. National Identity Card Number :

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2041
06. 6.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
6.2 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Telephone Number :
08. 8.1 Year of Graduation of Bachelor of Law :–––––––––––.
8.2 University :–––––––––––.
8.3 Class obtained :–––––––––––.
8.4 Additional Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
09. 9.1 Year in which taken oaths as a Lawyer of Supreme Court :
–––––––––––.
9.2 Experience as a Lawyer as at the closing date of applications
years :–––––––––––.
10. 10.1 Proficiency in English Language :–––––––––––.
10.2 Knowledge of Information Technology :–––––––––––.
11. Have you been convicted in a Court of Law for a criminal
offence ? :–––––––––––.
If so, furnish particulars :–––––––––––.
12. Have your service been terminated while you were in public
service before ? :–––––––––––.
If so, furnish particulars and reasons for termination of service :
–––––––––––.
13. Declaration of the applicant :
I hereby declare that the informations provided by me in this
applications are true and correct and I am aware that if any information
is proved to be untrue or incorrect before my being selected for the
post. I shall be unsuitable for the post and if it is proved to be untrue
or incorrect after my being selected, I shall be subject to dismissal
from the post without any compensation, subject to dismissal from
the post without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
14. Attestation of candidate's signature. (Should be as per 8.3 of
para 08 of Gazete notification) :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who is submitting
the application is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on .............................
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the Attestor of signature :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Should be confirmed by an official stamp)
10–607
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment on Open Basis to the Post of Psychologist (Officers in Field/in Office Segment 01 Service Category)
APPLICATIONS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who have fulfilled follwoing qualifications mentioned below for the recruitment to fill
24 vacancies of the post of Psychologist - Grade II for the hospitals administered under the Ministry of Health.
1. Method of Recruitment.– The candidates who obtained the highest marks by the writen Examination due to be held as an open
recruitment by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health or by an instiute approved by him and from the applications who have ful filled
qualifications mentioned in this notification after forwarding them to an interviews by which the applications physicals fitnes s and
qualifications are infected.
2. Required Qualifications :
(i) Educational qualifications/Professional qualifications :
Educational Qualifications :
* Should have obtained a Special Degree in Psychology from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission
with a Post Graduate Degree in Psychology ; and
* Should have obtained a credit pass for English Language at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ; and

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2042
Professional Qualifications :
* Should have obtained a two year's training on Clinical Psychology in an institute recognized by the Government ; and
* Should have obtained a 6 months' training under the supervision of a specialist in Psychology.
(ii) Physical fitness.– Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties of the post.
(iii) Other :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Should possess a good character,
(c) Should have fulfilled all qualifications which are required for the recruitment to the post in all respects as at the closing
date mentioned in this notification.
3. Terms of Employment and Service Conditions :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Officers are required to make contributions to Widows/Widowers and Orphans
Fund.
(ii) This appointment will be on probation for a period of three years.
(iii) Officers should obtain the relevant proficiency in official language other than the language in whcih he/she entered in to the
service within 5 years since the appointment as per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and the incidental
circulars.
(iv) First Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 03 years period of time.
(v) This appointment will be subject to procedural rules of Public Service Commission. Financial Regulation and provisions in
the Establishments Code.
4. Age limit.– Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date.
5. Salary scale.– Rs. 17,680 - 10x320 - 11x365 -  15x450 - Rs. 31,645 - (MN 06-2006A)
6. Written Examination will be held on following subjects :
Paper Syllabus T ime Maximum Pass
marks marks
Intelligence Test It is expected to test the candidate's ability of understanding the meaning, 1 1/2 100 40%
quantification and co-relation between the time and space through the hours
conclusions and responses of candidates to the problems given in
terms, numbers and pictures.
General Knowledge This paper will be based on mental health and psychological treatments 03 100 40%
hours
* Every applicant should be the examination fee which is Rs. 500 by a money order addressed to the Secretary "Ministry of Health, -
Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wiamalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on no reason examination fee shall be
refunded.
7. Identity of the candidates. – Candidates who have completed applications in all respects will only be called for the written
examination. Following documents of identity will be accepted to prove their identity at the written examination :
1. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons.
2. Valid Passport.
8. ( a) Applications should be sent to reach the following address by registered post on or before 15.09.2013. Applications
received after the closing date will be rejected :
Secretary,
[Director (Admin.) Branch 6],
Ministry of Health,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2043
(b) A specimen of the application which should be submitted is given at the end of this notification.
Applications should be prepared using a paper of size A4 and cages from 01 to 03 should appear on the first side of the
page, cage 04 to 07 should appear on the second side and cage 08 to 09 should appear on the third side. The application
should be perfected in the hand writing of the candidate.
(c) The words "Application for the post of Psychologist" should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope in
which application is enclosed.
(d) Candidate's signature in the applications should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/a Justice of the Peace/
A Commissioner for Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/a Notary Public/a Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/an officer
holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service who gets a
annually consolidated salary more than Rs. 273,060.
(e) Officers who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service should send their applications through the
respective Head of Department.
(f) Applications which are not in accordance with the specimen form of application will be rejected. No complaint on
misplace or delay of applications will be accepted.
9. Supplying false information.– Your candidateship will be cancelled if any information provided by you in the application is
reveled as false or inaccurate before the recruitment.
If such information is detected after the recruitment actions will be taken to dismiss by the service, subject to the further actions
with regard to this accordingly.
* Sinhala language statement will be effective if any inconsistency or contradictory is found among the Sinhala, Tamil and
English statements in this Gazette notification.
* Decision of the Health Secretary will be the  final for the matters arisen on the facts mentioned in this Gazette notification.
Dr. Y . D. N
IHAL JAYATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health,
Colombo 10.
21st September, 2013.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT (OPEN) TO THE POST OF PSYCHOLOGIST OF THE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
District of Residence :
Medium of Examination :
(Sinhala - 01/Tamil - 02/English - 03)
Write the relevant number in the cage.
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials :
Mr./Mrs./ Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
E. g.– SILV A A. B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Address (Personal) :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Address (Personal) :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address (Official) :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.4 Address (Official) :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(An officer who is employed in Public Service/Provincial
Service/Corporation should mention his/her official address.
Change of address should be informed immediately).
03. 3.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at closing date :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Dates :––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
05. Male/Female :–––––––––––.
06. Qualifications :–––––––––––.
(Qualifications under paragraph 04 of the notification)
Educational Qualifications/Professional Qualifications :––––––.
Experience :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'17
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.10.2013
2044
07. Prticulars relevant to the receipt of the payment of examination
fee :
(i) The office to which the examination fee was paid :––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here as not to be detached Rs. 500
08. Certificate of the Applicant :
I solemnly declare that the information given herein is true and
correct. I agree that if any information herein is found to be incorrect
or false prior to the selection, my application will be rejected and if
so found so after selection, I am liable to be dismissed from service
without any compensation.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
09. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............. is known to me personally
and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on .................
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer Attesting.
Name in full :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
10. Certificate of Head of the Department/Institute (only for the
applicants in Public Service) :
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................
has been serving in this Department/Provincial Council/Institute since
............................ and holds a pensionable/temporary post and he/
she has earned all the increments during the past ................ years and
has not been subjected to a disciplinary punishment of any kind
(except being advised) and all the particulars given above were checked
referring to the records at this office and found correct. Furthermore,
I hereby state that he/she can/cannot be released from service if
selected and that he/she placed the signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department/Institute.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Department :–––––––––––.
(Authenticate with Rubber Stamp)
10–421
––––––––––––––––
Revision
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  II  GRADE  II
OF  SRI  LANKA  SCIENTIFIC  SERVICE – 2013
THE number of vacancies mentioned under "Information on vacant posts" under Section 2 of page 35 of the notification published with the
above heading under the Section Exams, Exams results of Section I:II(A) of Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of No.
1,793 dated Friday 11th of January 2013 shall be revised as follows :
No. Department Post Number of Code
Vacancies
01 Department of National Zoological Gardens Assistant Director 06 011
02 Department of Government Analyst Assistant Government 03 022
Analyst of Questioned Documents
03 Department of Health Services Physiologist 15 092
Pharmaceutical Analyst (Chemical) 02 093
Regional Anti Malaria Officer 03 099
Chemist 01 910
On the order of Public Service Commission,
P. B. ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
October, 2013.
10–613
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.