

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.12.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1841$2 - 2013 foieïn¾  ui 17 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2013'12'17
No. 1841/2  - TUESDAY,   DECEMBER  17,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT,  No.  14  OF  2008
NOTIFICATION  UNDER SECTION 3 (2)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section  3 (2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act,  No. 14 of 2008 as
amended, I, Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, being the Minister in charge of the subject of Investment Promotion, in consultation
with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, do by this Notification:-
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the project to establish and operate
an Integrated Super Luxury Tourist Resort which consists 500 rooms including high end shopping malls, high quality
residencies and office spaces/service spaces with associated facilities at D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha, Colombo 10 in
the District of Colombo, Western Province with a total investment of United States Dollars Three Hundred Million (US$
300,000,000). As a project which attracts strategic importance, in view of the substantial contribution.
. (i) towards promoting tourism which attracts high priority in economic development as per the development strategy
of the Government;
(ii) through the inflow of Foreign Direct Investment into the country to the value of United States Dollars Two Hundred
Million (US$ 200 Mn.) within Thirty-six (36) months from the date of the Project Agreement signed between the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and the Project Company (“the Project Agreement”);
(iii) through potential generation of employment for approximately Two Thousand and Eight Hundred (2,800) local
employees and consequent income earning opportunities for the people of Sri Lanka; and
(iv) towards changing the landscape of the country with the construction of an Integrated Super Luxury Tourist Resort
facility of international repute that will enable to attract high spending foreign tourists and the consequent large
foreign exchange turnover that could be generated ;
(2) The name of the Project Company is Queensbury Leisure Limited (“Project Company’’). The date of commencement of
the project implementation period shall be as stated in the Project Agreement signed between the Board of Investment

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.12.2013
2A
of Sri Lanka and the Project Company or any other extended date as determined by the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka. The project implementation period could be up to Forty Eight (48) months from the date stated in the Project
Agreement .Commercial operation of the project shall commence soon after completion of the Project Implementation
Period ;
(3) As envisaged in Section 2 of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, the exemptions from the applicability
of laws on the payment of taxes for the period/s set out in the Schedule hereto, will be granted on the basis that the
following conditions shall be complied with :
(i) the foreign direct investment of the Project shall be United States Dollars Two Hundred Million (US$ 200 Mn.) which
shall be made within Thirty Six (36) months from the date of the Project Agreement signed between the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka and the Project Company; and
(ii) accounts shall be maintained by the Project Company in relation to foreign exchange transactions associated with
the Project, to ensure effective monitoring.
SCHEDULE
(1) The Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006
(i) Corporate Income Tax
The Provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 as amended, on the imposition of income tax shall not
apply on the profit of the Project Company that are generated from the activities of the Project sale, lease, rent
proceeds of apartments, office and services space, room charges and rental income from all tenants, for a period of
Ten (10) years reckoned from the year of assessment as may be determined by the Board.
The said tax exemption period will commence either from the first year in which the Project Company makes taxable
profit or Three (03) years from the date of commencement of Commercial Operations of the Project, whichever occurs
earlier.
Commencing immediately after the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period, there will be a Partial Tax
Exemption Period of Twelve (12) years relating to the profits and income of the Project Company that are generated
from the activities of the Project, during which time a tax rate of six per centum (6%) or fifty per centum (50%) of the
Income Tax rate prevailing at the time for the hotel industry, whichever is lower, shall apply.
Provided however, after the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period and the Partial Tax Exemption Period,
income tax in respect of the profits and the income of the Project Company shall be payable in terms of the
provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.
In the event the Project Company expands activities beyond the scope of the Project covered in terms of relevant
statutes, profits from such activities shall be liable for corporate income tax in terms of the Inland Revenue Act, as
modified proportionately in line with the profitability in terms of volume of business turnover.
(ii) Tax on Dividends
Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit of the Project Company will be exempted from
income tax during the said Ten (10) year tax exemption period and One (01) year thereafter.
(iii) Withholding Tax
The Project Company will be exempted from having to deduct and pay Withholding Tax with regard to the following:-
- on interest on foreign loans and debt taken for capital expenditure and on technical fees;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.12.2013
3A
- on management fees and royalty payments and provided however the total of such charges does not exceed
three per centum (3%) of the gross operating revenue;
- on marketing fees provided however the total of such fees does not exceed One point five per centum (1.5%) of
the gross operating revenue;
- on incentive management fees provided however the total of such fees does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of
the gross operating profit.
(iii) PAYE Tax
The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of Pay-As-You-Earn Tax
(PAYE Tax) subject to the restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number of Twenty (20)
employees. This concession shall be applicable for a period of five (5) years from the date of commencement of
Commercial Operations. The Project Company shall be required to gradually replace expatriate staff with local
employees, on a best-effort basis.
(2) Value Added Tax Act (V AT) No. 14 of 2002
The importation of Project related goods and any local purchase of project related goods as approved by the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka or services required for the project implementation period of Forty Eight (48) months shall be
exempted from the payment of V AT. Any contractor or a subcontractor who supplies to such contractor, to the Project,
will be entitled to the deferment as permitted in the V AT Act.
Subject to the above, the Project Company shall be liable to pay V AT as provided in the V AT Act, No. 14 of 2002 as
amended, on the value of supply as therein defined, from the commencement of commercial operations.
(3) Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
Confined to project related goods imported for the Project as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, the
Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL) on the importation
of project related goods during the Project Implementation Period of Forty Eight (48) months. This exemption shall be
applicable on direct imports by the Project Company for the Project on imports by a contractor or subcontractor for the
purpose of the Project, so long as the consignee of such goods the Project Company, subject to the same conditions
referred to in Item 5 below.
(4) Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
The contractors of the Project Company shall be exempted from Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy imposed
under the Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005 as amended, in relation to the Project during the Project Implementation Period of
Forty Eight (48) months.
(5) Customs Duty on Importation of Project Related Items [Customs Oridnance (Chapter 235)]
Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all project related items in capital nature and any other project
related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka imported in the name of the Project Company
implementing the Project in relation to items so imported solely for the purpose of the Project whether directly imported
by the Project Company or sourced through the contractors or sub-contractors to the contractors provided that the
goods are consigned in the name of the Project Company other than the items mentioned in the Negative List within the
Project Implementation Period of Forty Eight (48) months. The Items in the Negative List will be exempted from the
Customs Duty only where such items are either not wholly produced in Sri Lanka or are unavailable in sufficient quality,
quantity and time lines for Project completion.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'17
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 17.12.2013
4A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
As such, in general, project related goods could be imported through a contractor or a subcontractor in respect of the
Project within the Project Implementation Period of Forty Eight (48) months as provided above, only if the Project
Company is named as the consignee of such goods. Hence, if such imports have been done along with any other
imports, the Project Company shall be solely responsible to ensure that the concessions noted herein shall be available
only to Project related goods of the Project Company. If for any reason this condition has been violated, taxes and
levies payable under laws and regulations prevailing at the time shall apply to all goods that do not form part of Project
related goods for the Project and such taxes shall become payable forthwith. It is noted that any personal effects
imported by the Project Company for the private/personal use of any employee, consultant or any other of the Project
Company shall not be treated as Project related goods. It is further noted that in view of the exemptions/concessions
granted to the Project Company under the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, no tenant or any other
party associating with the Project or the Project Company will be granted any exemptions or concessions under this
Act in view of or consequent to such association.
L
AKSHMAN YAPA ABEYWARDANA, MP.,
Minister of Investment Promotion.
Colombo,
On this 17th day of December, 2013.
01-05