

<!-- page 1 -->

227 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2007
227
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 229
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... —
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd March, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 09th March, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,489 _ 2007 ˜åÚ”º  16 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .03.16
No. 1,489 – FRIDAY , MARCH 16, 2007
N.B.— Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,488 of 09.03.2007 was not published.
N. B.- (i) Kottawa Sri Punyabiwardana Viharasthana Performance Society (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the
Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 02, 2007.
(ii) Sihala Sarana Pin Ketaya (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 09, 2007.
(iii) National Institute of Language Education and Training Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 15, 2007.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2007
228
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

229 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2007
Posts - Vacant
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of sub-inspector of Police, Police Constable, and
Police Constable Driver
APPLICATIONS  are invited from the citizens of  Sri Lanka for the
post of Sub-Inspector of Police, Police Constable, and Police Constable
Driver in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below, should be sent to Director (Recruitment)
Recruiting Office, 2nd Floor ,New Secretariat Building, Colombo 01.
The applications should be sent by registered post to the above
mentioned address to reach on or before 16th April, 2007 and the
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications should be
marked Post of “Sub-Inspector of Police/Police Constable/Police
Constable Driver”. Delayed applications will be rejected and no
applications will be issued by the Sri Lanka Police Department.
3. Salary Scale :
Probationary Sub-Inspector of Police
Rs. 184,200-7x1800-2x2520 - 25x3480 —Rs. 288,840.
Recruit Police Constable
Rs. 166,560-7x1,440-27x1,800—Rs. 225,240.
Recruit Police Constable Driver
Rs. 166,560-7x1,440-27x1,800—Rs. 225,240.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances.
Probationary Sub-Inspector of Police
(a) Special arduous duty allowances
(i) For duties in operational area Rs. 1,200
(ii)For duties in non operational area Rs. 600
(b) combined allowance
(i) For duties in operational area Rs. 12,000
(ii) For duties in non operational area Rs. 4,000
Recruit Police Constable
(a) Special arduous duty allowances
(i) For duties in operational area Rs. 1,200
(ii)For duties in non operational area Rs. 600
(b) Combined allowance
(i) For duties in operational area Rs. 12,000
(ii)For duties in non operational area Rs. 4,000
Recruit Police Constable Driver
(a) Special arduous duty allowances
(i) For duties in operational area Rs. 1,200
(ii)For duties in non operational area Rs.     600
(b) Combined allowance
(i) For duties in operational area Rs. 12,000
(ii)For duties in non operational area Rs. 4,000
(c ) Free transport facilities
(d) Free Medical facilities to officers
(Financial assistance can be obtained for medical treatment
even in a foreign country)
(e) All uniforms will be provided free of charge
(f) Facilities to improve skills and talents in sports
(g) Traveling expenses for duty  and money will be granted
as rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
4. Basic Qualifications
(a) Probationary Sub-Inspector of Police
Age limit.— The age should be between 18 and 25 years as
at closing date as per the Gazette notifications.
(b) Recruit Police Constable
Age limit.— The age should be between 18 and 25 years as
at closing date as per the Gazette notifications.
(c )Recruit Police Constable Driver
Age limit.— The age should be between 19 and 26 years as
at closing date as per the Gazette notifications.
Educational Qualifications .—
Probationary Sub-Inspector of Police
Applicant should have passed 3 subjects at one sitting at
the G.C.E. (A/L) examination. and passed the G.C.E.
(O/L) examination in  6 subjects at one sitting with credit
passes in 04 subjects which 2 should be Medium language
and Mathematics.
Recruit Police Constable
Should have passed 6 subjects at one sitting including
Mathematics and Medium language at the G.C.E. (O/L)
examination.
Recruit Police Constable Driver
Should have passed 6 subjects at one sitting including
Mathematics and Medium language at the G.C.E. (O/L)
examination.
Note 01.— According to the classification of subjects
of the Department of Examinations, in calculating the
number of  subjects passed at G.C.E. (O.L.) both passes
in science subjects  number 41 and 44 will be treated as one
subject and both passes in Mathematics number 42 and 45
will be treated as one subject. (They can’t be considered as
four separate subjects taking into account the number of
subjects passed.)
Note 02.— Failure in the Technical subject at Written
Test of G.C.E. (O.L.) examination will be considered as
failure in the same subject although a pass has been obtained
for the same in the Practical test.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2007
230
Note. 03.— Since optional subjects of Tamil, English
and Sinhala have not been included in the stream of G.C.E.
(O.L.) passes in any of these subjects will not be computed
as a pass in the G.C.E.(O/L) examination.
Physical requirements
Probationary Sub-Inspector of Police.
Height 5 feet 06 inches (minimum)
Chest 32 inches (deflated)
Recruit Police Constable
Height 5 feet 04 inches (minimum)
Chest 30 inches (deflated)
Recruit Police Constable Driver
Height 5 feet 03 inches (minimum)
Chest 30 inches (deflated)
Note.— Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated qualifications
will be eligible at the discretion of Inspector General of
Police provided they have skills in sports or have achieved
best performance in sports at National level or they have
earned reputation for Sri Lanka by participating in an
international competition.
Vacancy for the Police Constable Driver
Trade Qualification :
(i) Certificate of competence in driving light or
Heavy vehicles.
(ii) At least, one year experience in driving motor
vehicles after obtaining the above certificate
Note: Priority will be given in case of knowledge of
motor mechanism, experience in repairs to vehicles and
long experience in driving vehicles.
* If any applicant has deformity or any other physical
disability which impedes movement of physical limb
required for competence in driving will  be disqualified.
Although he has obtained a medical certificate to the effect
that the he is fit for the service.
* The applicants who have basic qualification will be
tested for their ability for driving and maintain vehicles.
Their knowledge of road rules and traffic signals and basic
knowledge of mechanical theories of the vehicle in which
the applicant has achieved competence in driving will also
be tested.
(d) Visual requirements.— Vision should not be less than 6/12
with each eye. If the vision is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18
with the other eye will be accepted. Colour vision should
be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses
will be not be eligible.
(e) Other qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be unmarried.
(Those who are divorced should be treated as
married). This condition will not be applicable for
officers who presently server in the Police
Department and who have fulfilled the qualifications.
(ii)Applicants should get through the test of basic
qualification, endurance test and written test
conducted by the Police Department before they
attend the final selection board. The written test
consists of two papers.
(i) Question paper on construction of sentences
Duration - 45 Minutes
(ii)Question paper general Knowledge and
Intelligence test  Duration - 01 hour
(iii)Successful applicants should pass a medical
examination before they are enlisted. Applicants who
are accepted as disqualified for the Police Service will
be rejected.
(iv) The following areas will be tested in the trade test
(a) Competence in Driving vehicle ;
(b) The Highway code
(c) Knowledge of maintenance of, and minor repairs
to vehicles
5. Terms of Engagement :
(i) Appointees are entitled to the Public Service Provident  Fund ;
(ii) 8% of monthly earnings should be paid to the contributory
Pension Fund from the date of enlistment.
(iii)All officers will be required to contribute to Police
Departmental funds.
6. Conditions of Service :
(i) This appointment is subject to a period of probation for
three years.
(ii)The selected applicants will be required to comply with any
rules already made or may hereafter be made to give effect to
the language policy of the government.
(iii)They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code V olume I and II, Police Disciplinary
Code and any other Orders that may be issued by the
Inspector General of Police or by the Government from
time to time.
(iv)Every officer will be required to pass the prescribed
Departmental tests. Those who fail to pass the prescribed
test or are found to be unfit for Police duties will be liable for
removal from the Police service.

<!-- page 5 -->

231 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2007
(v) Basic training will be 01 year at the Sri Lanka Police College
and the regional training will be 02 years.
(vi) The appointees will not be permitted to marry until they
are confirmed in their posts. However, in terms of the
notification 41 of the Police Gazette 11 dated 28th February,
1973, the officers who have completed a minimum period of
two years satisfactory service could get married on the
permission granted by the Inspector General of Police, under
special circumstances.
(vii) Application on being appointed and after the training should
serve a probationary period of three years in the Police
Department and  if they wish to resign from service before
their probation is over, they should sign an agreement of
consent to the effect that they are willing  to pay at the time
of tendering their resignation, any amount which was incurred
on uniforms etc., during on by the Director of Police Training
College. The acceptance of resignation should confirm  to
the Section 4 Chapter 5 in Volume I of the Established Code
1985.
(viii)Probationary Sub-Inspector of Police, Recruit Police
Constable, and Recruit Police Constable immediately after
they have commenced training at the Police Training college
should affirm/swear that they adhere to the Police
Disiciplinery Code in terms of the I.G.P. Circular No. 1693/
2003. Sub Inspector of Police who have been confirmed in
the post will have opportunities for promotions according
to the approved scheme of promotion of the Police
Department.
(xi)They should soon after commencing the training at Police
College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to the Public Service
in terms of the I.G.P. ’s Circular No. 1804/2004.
(x) Probationary Sub-Inspector of Police, Recruit Police
Constable, and Police Constable Driver  will have the scope
for promotions in terms of the approved scheme of
promotions of the Police Department.
7. (i) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable to
appointment to posts in the Police service published in the section
(IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette.
(ii)Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
8. Applicants should annex copies of following documents to
their application. (orginals must not be forwarded).
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent  testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not related) ;
(iii)Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or other
extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates of service experience, (if available) ;
(vi) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card .
9. (a) Applications from applicants who are already in the Public
service/services must be forwarded through the Heads of their
respective departments and must be accompanied by a certificate
stating that the officers can be released, if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11” X8” in size and post them, together with
the copies of certificates called for to the address given in paragraph
2 and under no circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the department.
10. Applications, which do not conform to the requirements,
stipulated in this notification will be rejected  and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note : No traveling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
Inspector General of Police.
Victor Perera,
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of  Sub-Inspector of Police, Police Constable, and
Police Constable Driver
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
01. (a) Name in full (In block letters):——.
(As stated in the applicant’s Birth Certificate)
(b) Name with initials:——.
(c ) Sex:——.
02. National Identity Card No:——.
03. Father’s Name in Full:——.
04. Place of Birth of the applicant:——.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs:——.
05. (a) Present Address:——.
(b) Police station to which the present address belongs:
——.
(c) Permanent Address:——.
(d) Police station and the electorate to which the permanent
address belongs:——.
06. (a) Nationality:——.
(b) Whether you are citizen by birth or registration (if by
registration attach copies of the certificate) if You are a
citizen by birth state the place of birth of
(i) Applicant:——.
(ii)Applicant’s Father:——.
(iii)Applicants paternal grandfather:——.
(iv) Applicant’s paternal great grand father:——.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2007
232
07. Age : (as on the closing date of application given in the
Gazette)
Years:——,  Months:——, Days:——.
(Copy of birth certificate should be attached)
08. Height (Inches):——.  Chest (Inches):——.
09. Educational Qualifications (State Examinations passed and
attach copies of certificates):——.
10. Whether married or single:——.
11.  (i) Present employment:——.
 (ii) Are you a members of any armed Force:——.
12. Have you any special claims and/or qualifications:——.
13. Give names and address of two non-related referees:——.
(i) ………………………………
(ii)……………………………..
14. (a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Police Service?
(If so give reference):——.
(b) Have you served in the Police or in the Sri Lanka Reserve
Police before ?:——.
(If so under what circumstances did you leave the
service ? Give details):——.
15. (a) Are you serving in any of the Armed Services ?
(If so, your application must be submitted through the
respective Service Commander):——.
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Services ?
(if so, attach copy of your discharge certificate):——.
16. (a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any one of the Armed
services ? (if so, your application must be submitted
through the respective service Commander):——.
(b) Have you served as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
services ? (if so, attach a copy/copies of your discharge
certificate/certificates):——.
17. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or
arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so,
give details ):——.
18. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion, or convicted of any offence ?
(If so, give details):——.
I, hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable for
termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith (even
if I have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false.
………………………………..
Signature of the Applicant.
Date 
.——
02-392
SRI LANKA POLICE DEPARTMENT
Post of Women Police Constable (Special Task Force)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of  Sri Lanka for the
Post of Women Police Constable in the Sri Lanka Police Department
(STF).
2. Applications forms duly  perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below, should be sent to Director (Recruitment)
Recruiting Office, 2nd Floor, New Secretariat Building, Colombo 01.
The applications should be sent by registered post to the above
mentioned address to reach on or before 16.04.2007 and the top left
hand corner of the envelop enclosing  applications should be marked
Post of Women Police Constable (Special Task Force) Delayed
applications will be rejected and no applications will be issued by
the Sri Lanka Police Department.
3. Salary Scale :
Women Police Constable (Special Task Force)
Rs. 1,6650 - 7 x 1,440 - 27 x 1,800 - 2,25240
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
allowances monthly.
(a) Special arduous duty allowances
(i) For duties in operational area - Rs. 1,200
(ii)For duties in non operational area - Rs. 600
(b) Combined Allowance
(i) For duties in operational areas  - Rs. 10,500
(ii)For duties in non operational area - Rs. 3,500
(a) All uniforms will be provided free of charge
(b) Facilities to improve skills and talents in sports
(c) Traveling expenses for duty and money will be
granted as rewards for outstanding and arduous
duties.
4. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age limits :
The age should be between 18 and 25 years as at closing
date as per the Gazette notifications.
Educational Qualifications :
Should have passed 6 subjects at one sitting including
Mathematics and medium language at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination.
Note 01.– According to the classification of subjects of
the Department of Examinations in calculating the number
of subjects passed at G. C. E. (O/L) both passes in science
subjects number 41 and 44 will be treated as one subject
and both passes in Mathematics number 42 and 45 will be
treated as one subject. (They can’t be considered as four
separate subjects taking into account the number of subjects
passed.)

<!-- page 7 -->

233 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2007
Note 02.– Failure in the Technical subject at Written
Test of G. C. E. (O/L) examination will be considered as
failure in the same subject although a pass has been obtained
for the same in the Practical test.
Note 03.– Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of G. C. E.
(O/L), passes in any of these subjects will not be computed
as a pass in the G. C. E. (O/L) examination.
(b) Physical requirements :
Height : 5 feet 02 inches (minimum)
Note : Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements but fulfill the other stipulated qualifications
will be eligible at the discretion of Inspector General of
Police provided they have skills in sports or have achieved
best performance in sports at national level or they have
earned reputation for Sri Lanka by participating in an
international competition.
(d) Visual requirements :
Vision should not be less than 6/12 with each eye. If the
vision is 6/6 with one eye and 6/18 with the other eye will
be accepted. Colour vision should be normal. Applicants
wearing spectacles or contact lenses will not be eligible.
(e) Other qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be unmarried.
(Those who are divorced should be treated as
married) This condition will not be applicable  for
officers who presently server in the Police
Department and who have fulfilled the qualifications.
(ii)Applicants who are in the required are limit and
fulfill stipulated basic educational qualifications and
physical requirements will be given preference if
they have sports skills and special performances.
(iii)Applicants should get through the test of basic
qualification, endurance test and written test
conducted by the Police Department before they
attend the final selection board. The written test
consists of two papers.
(i) Question paper on construction of sentences
Duration - 45 Minutes
(ii)Question paper general knowledge and
Intelligence test
Duration - 01 hour
Successful applicants should pass a medical
examination before they are enlisted. Applicants
who are accepted as disqualified for the police
Service will be rejected.
5.Conditions of Appointment.– This appointment is permanent
and pensionable. Contribution has to be made towards the widows/
widowers orphans pension scheme.
6. Conditions of service :
i. This appointment is subject to a period of probation for
three years.
ii. The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any rules already made or may hereafter be made to give
effect to the language policy of the government.
iii.They will be subject to the relevant provisions of the
Establishments Code V olume I and II, Police Disciplinary
Code and any other Orders that may be issued by the
Inspector General of Police or by the Government from
time to time.
iv. Every officer will be required to pass the prescribed
Departmental tests. Those who fail to pass the prescribed
test or are found to be unfit for Police duties will be liable
for removal from the Police Service.
v. Basic training will be 01 year at the Sri Lanka Police College
and the regional training will be 02 years.
vi. The appointees will not be permitted to marry until they
are confirmed in their posts. However, in terms of the
notification 41 of the Police Gazette 11dated 28th February
1973, the officers who have completed a minimum period
of two years satisfactory service could get married on the
permision granted by the Inspector General of Police, under
special circumstances.
vii.Applicants on being recruited should serve a probationary
period of three years in the Police Department and if they
wish to resign from service before their probation is over,
they should sign an agreement of consent of the effect that
they are willing to pay at the time of tendering their
resignation, any amount which was incurred on uniforms
etc., as decided on by the Director of Police Training
College. The acceptance of resignation should conform to
the Section 4 Chapter V in V olume 1 of the Establishment
Code 1985.
viii.Probationary Women Police Constable and Police
Constable (Special Task Force) immediately after they
have commenced training at the Police Training College
should affirm/swear that they adhere to the Police
Disciplinary Code in terms of the I. G. P . Circular No.
1693/2003. who have been confirmed in the post will have
opportunities for promotions according to the approved
scheme of promotion of the Police Department.
ix. They should soon after commencing the training at Police
College, subscribe the Oath of Allegiance to the Public
Service, in terms of the I. G. P .’s Circular No. 1804/2004.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2007
234
x. Women Police Constable (Special Task Force) will have
the scope for promotions in terms of the approved scheme
of promotions of the Police Department.
7. (i) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointment to posts in the Police service published in the Section
(IIA) of the part 1 of this Gazette.
(ii) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular No.15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
8. Applicants should annex copies of following documents to
their application. (Originals must not be forwarded)
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from
persons who are not  related);
(iii)Certificates in support of Educational Qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or other
extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates of service experience, (if available);
(vi) A Photostat copy of the National Identity Card.
9. (a) Applications from applicants who are already in the
Public service/services must be forwarded through the Heads of their
respective departments and must be accompanied by a certificate
stating that the officers can be released, if selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11” x 8” in size and post them, together with
the copies of certificates called for to the address given in paragraph
2 and under no circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the department.
10. Applications, which do not conform to the requirments,
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note : No Traveling or other expenses will be paid to applicants
who are summoned for the test and interview.
V
ICTOR  PERERA ,
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
THE  POST  OF  W OMEN  POLICE  CONSTABLE  (SPECIAL  TASK  FORCE )
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. Name in full (In block letters) :———.
(As stated in the applicant’s Birth Certificate):———.
02. Name with Initials :———.
03. National Identity Card No. :———.
04. Father’s Name in Full :———.
05. Place of birth of the applicant :———.
Police station to which the place of birth belongs :———.
06. a. Present address :———.
b. Police station to which the present address belongs :—
——.
c. Permanent Address :———.
d. Police station and the electorate to which the permanent
address belongs :
07. a. Nationality :———.
b. Whether you are citizen by brith or  registration  (if by
registration attach copies of the certificate)
If you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth of.
(i) Applicant :———.
(ii)Applicant’s Father :———.
(iii)Applicant’s paternal grandfather :———.
(iv) Applicant’s paternal great grandfather :———.
08. Age : (as on the closing date of application given in the Gazette)
Years :———, Moths :———, Days:———.
(Copy of brith certificate should be attached)
09. Height : (Inches)
10. Educational  Qualifications  (State  Examinations  passed  and
attach copies of certificates) :
11. Whether married or single :
12. (i) Present employment :
(ii)Are you a members of any armed Force :
13. Have you any special claims and/or Qualifications :
14. Give names and address of two non - related referees :
(i) –––––.
(ii)–––––.
15. (a) Have you ever applied for a post in the police Service (If
so give reference) :
(b) Have you served in the Police or in the Sri Lanka Reserve
Police before ?
(If so under what circumstances did you leave the service?
Give details)
16. (a) Are you serving in any of the Armed Services? (if so
your application must be submitted through the
respective Service Commander) :
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed Services? (If so,
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :
17. (a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any one of the Armed
Services? (if so, your application must be submitted
through the respective Service Commander) :
(b) Have you served as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Services? (If so attach a copy/copies of your discharge
certificate/Certificates) :
18. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or
arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence?
(if so, give details)

<!-- page 9 -->

235 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.16
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.03.2007
19. Have any of your relatives been involved in or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion, or convicted of any
offence? (if so, give details):–––––.
I, hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I am liable for
termination of my service in the Police Department forthwith (even
if I  have been appointed at any time) if the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false.
———,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––.
03-420
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.