

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 940
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 934
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"185 – 2020 cQ,s ui 17 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'07'17
No. 2,185 –  fRiday ,  July  17, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th august, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th July, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
931 - B 82040- 5,403 (07/2020)


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
932
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
933
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
934
Posts – vacant
mINISTRy Of LANDS AND LAND 
DEvELOPmENT
Public Services Commission
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoSt of lEGal officER 
(EXEcutiVE SERVicES -GRadE iii) oN oPEN 
BaSiS -2020 
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri 
Lanka, who have fulfilled the qualifications in this notice  
to fill the vacancy in the post of Legal Officer (Executive 
Services - Grade iii) in the Ministry of lands and 
land development.
1. Method of recruitment.– the applicant who obtained 
maximum marks from a structured interview conducted by an 
interview panel appointed by the Public Services commission 
out of applicants who have completed qualifications  
mentioned in this notice will be recruited for the vacancy. 
Structured interview will be held in conformity with the 
marking scheme (given under No. 6) approved by the Public 
Services commission.
the effective date of the appointment will be decided by 
the Public Services commission.
2. Qualifications :
 (i) Educational /Professional Qualifications :
  Should have sworn in as an attorney-at-law in 
the Supreme court.
 (ii) experience :
  Should have obtained anactive professional 
experience  not  less   than   three (3)  years 
subsequent to swearing in as an attorney-at-law 
in the Supreme court. (the documents submitted 
in proof of the active professional experience 
shall clearly indicate the period of experience, 
date and official frank and should submit the 
same at the interview) ;
  or
  Should have obtained experience relating to 
following functions not less than 03 years in the 
field of Law in a public institution subsequent to 
swearing in as an attorney-at-law in the Supreme 
court.
 (a) legal matters on cases and coordination with the 
attorney General’s department,
 (b)  legal matters relating to agreements,
 (c) legal matters relating to Rules, Regulations and 
acts,
 (d)  formulation of legal documents such as drafts of 
acts, circulars and regulations,
 (e) legal or court matters or inquiry proceedings 
conducted by various statutory institutions.
(These matters should be authenticated by a certificate 
and documents issued by the Secretary, Head of the 
department).
(iii)  Physical qualifications.– Every applicant should 
be physically and mentally fit to serve and to 
perform duties of the post in any part of Sri 
lanka.
(iv)  Other qualifications :
• Should be a citizen of Sri lanka,
• Should be of excellent character,
• Requisite qualification s for this post should 
have been completed in every aspect as at the 
closing date.
3. Service occupying conditions and service conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
are subject to the policy decisions taken by 
the government in the future regarding your 
pension’s scheme. you should contribute to 
the Widow’s/Widower’s and orphans Pensions 
Scheme. you shall pay contributions to this fund 
as declared by the Government from time to 
time.
 ii. this appointment is subject to a probation 
period of three (3) years. Officers should pass 
the first efficiency bar examination within three 
years of the appointment to the post as per the 
Recruitment Procedure.
 iii. The Officers who are recruited to this post 
should obtain the proficiency in the official 
language other than the language in which such 
officer joined the service, within five years 
from entering the service, in terms of Public 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
935
Administration Circular No. 1/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and circulars incidental thereto and the Officers recruited 
not in the medium of an official language should obtain the proficiency in the relevant official language, during 
the probation period.
 (iv) this appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public Services commission and provisions of 
Establishments code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka. financial Regulations of the government 
and other departmental orders.
04. Age limit.– the applicants should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age by the closing date of 
calling application.
05. Salary scale.– Monthly salary scale entitled to this post: Rs. 47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170- Rs. 110,895. 
(monthly)(Salary scale Sl 1 -2016 as per Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. your salary will be 
paid as per the provisions of Schedule ii of that circular).
06. Marking scheme for the interview for Evaluating Eligibility is as follows:
Serial
No.
Subject Marks Maximum
marks
01 Additional Educational qualifications :
Post Graduate Degree relevant to the field of Law obtained from a university 
recognized by the university Grants commission.
Post Graduate Diploma relevant to the field of Law or Post  Attorney Diploma 
obtained from an institution recognized by the government (not less than one year)
degree in law obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants 
commission
• First Class
• Second class ( upper)
• Second class (lower)  
• General degree in law
First Class in the final year of Law College
Second Class in the final year of Law College
Note: 05 marks should be awarded only ifthe final examination passed with honors
(Marks will be given only for the maximum qualifications)
25
20
15
10
07
05
10
05
25
02 Additional Professional Experience
i. Additional Professional qualifications
A Diploma in the field of Law offered by a recognized institute of the 
government (academic period more than one year)
(10 marks each for one diploma.)
A Diploma in the field of Law offered by a recognized institute of the 
government (academic period more than 6 months and less than one year)
(05 marks each for one diploma)
A Certificate course in the field of Law offered by a recognized institute of the 
government (academic period more than 03 months and less than 6 month )
(03 marks each for one diploma)
(Except the certificates which were given marks under No. 01)
10
25
35

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
936
Serial
No.
Subject Marks Maximum
marks
ii. Additional Experience
Experience required under 2(ii) of the Notice(Except the service period of 03 
years required to fulfill basic qualification)
Maximum 25 marks- five marks per one year each
- More than 06 months and less than a year - 02 marks
• Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate issued by an 
attorney-at-law or President’s counsel or a Judge with a service period not 
less than 15 years (This service period should be indicated in the certificate 
issued for the applicant).
• For the officers in public service or private sector, who have fulfilled 
above qualifications, the Heads of the Departments should mention that the 
candidate is serving in legal post, when confirming the additional experience 
of the candidate by a service certificate/ certificate.
03 Literacy in Information Technology
for studying information technology as a main subject for a degree offered by a 
university recognized by the university Grants commission
for a diploma in information technology, academic period not less than one year / 
1500 hours in a government recognized institute
For a certificate course ininformation Technology in a government recognized 
institute
06 months / 720 hours
03 months / 360 hours
(Marks will be given only for the maximum qualification)
10
07
05
03
10
04 Language Proficiency
Post graduate/degree/post llB degree /llB degree studied in English medium.(all 
relevant question papers should be answered in English medium)
English language diploma from a university recognized by the university Grants 
commission or an institution recognized by the government academic period of 
which is not less than one year / 1500 hours
English Language Certificate course conducted by a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission or an institution recognized by the government.
06 months / 720 hours
03 months / 360 hours
(Marks will be given only for the maximum qualification)
15
10
07
05
15

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
937
Serial
No.
Subject Marks Maximum
marks
05 marks to be given by interview board for skills shown at the interview.
i.  General Knowledge and intelligence
ii.  Knowledge in current trends in the field of Law
iii.  ability to express views clearly and personality
05
05
05
15
Total marks 100
Note.- in case the certificates provided at the interview 
do not indicate the duration of the course, it is the 
responsibility of the candidate to get the duration of 
the courses confirmed in writing, from the relevant 
institutions. The certificates which do not indicate 
the durations or not confirmed by a letter shall not 
be considered when giving marks.
07. Identity of the Candidate. – only the applicants who 
have submitted fully completed applications in every aspect 
will be invited for the structured interview.
Original copies of all certificates and duly certified copies 
should be submitted at the interview any of the following 
documents will be accepted to confirm the identity at the 
interview:
1. Valid National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons;
2.  Valid passport.
08. (i) applications should be sent by registered post to 
reach the following address on or before 17.08.2020. late 
applications will be rejected :
Secretary,
Ministry of lands and land development,
No. 1200/6, “Mihikatha Medura”,
Rajamalwatta avenue,
Battaramulla.
(ii) Specimen of the application is given at the end of 
this application. applications should be prepared in a4 size 
papers using both sides indicating No. 1.1 to 3.1 in the first 
page, 3.2 to 4.7 in the second page and 5 to 8 in the third page 
and should be completed by applicant’s own handwriting.
(iii)  “Recruitment for the post of Legal officer - Grade 
iii” should be clearly mentioned in the top left corner of the 
envelope enclosing the application.
(iv) applicant’s signature placed in the application 
should be attested by a principal of a government school /
Justice of Peace/commissioner of oaths /attorney at law/
Notary public/A Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy 
or Air Force or an officer holding a permanent post in public 
or provincial service, earning a monthly consolidated salary 
of Rs. 47,615/-
(v) those who are in public service or provincial service 
at present should forward their applications through the 
heads of their respective departments.
(vi) applications not in conformity with the specimen 
herewith will be rejected.any complaint regarding loss or 
delay of the application will not be accepted.
09. Furnishing false information.– y our candidature is 
liable to be cancelled if it is found before recruitment that 
any information furnished by you in your application is false 
or incorrect. it is found after the recruitment that you have 
furnished information that is false or incorrect you will be 
liable for dismissal from the Public Service subject to the 
relevant procedure.
10. Public Services Commission reserves the right to fill 
the vacancy or not.
11. if any inconstancy between Sinhala, tamil and 
English text of this Gazette Notification occurs, the Sinhala 
copy will prevail.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
938
12. Any matter not provided in this Notice or any problem regarding the recruitment procedure arises, the decision taken 
by the Public Services Commission shall be ﬁ nal.
By order of the Public Services Commission.
 Secretary.
 Ministry of Lands and Land Development.
1200/6, “Mihikatha Medura”,
Rajamalwatta Avenue,
Battaramulla,
17th July
, 2020.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER (EXECUTIVE SERVICE CATEGORY - GRADE 111)
Ministry of Lands and Land Development
(For ofﬁ ce use only)
 Indicate the relevant number in the cage 
  Sinhala -2 / Tamil- 3 / English- 4 
Note: The medium of application shall not be changed later.
1.0   1.1.  Full name (Mr./Mrs./Miss) (in Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––––.
    Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, M.G.B.S.K
   1.2. Full name (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––––––.
   1.3. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) (in Sinhala/ Tamil) :–––––––––––––––.
   1.4. Name with initials (in English block capital) :–––––––––––––––.
2.0   2.1.  Permanent address: (in Sinhala /Tamil) :–––––––––––––––.
   2.2.  Permanent address (in English block capital) :–––––––––––––––.
   2.3.  Telephone No. :–––––––––––––––.
3.0   3.1.  Sex:         Male: 0  Female: 1  (Write the relevant number in the cage)  
   3.2. Civil States : Married - 1  Unmarried-2  (Write the relevant number in the cage) 
   3.3. Date of Birth : Year :                               Month:                        Date :
   3.4. Age as at 17.08.2020 :       Years:                  Months :             Days :
   3.5. National Identity Card No. :
4.0    4.1. Particulars in respect of the quali ﬁ cations to be qualiﬁ ed for the interview as per the notice.
University/ Institute that offered the Degree/Diploma/
Certiﬁ cate
Date on which the Degree/Diploma 
Certiﬁ cate was offered
    Date on which the applicant took oaths as an Attomey-at-Law :–––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
939
   4.2 Professional Experience as an attorney-at-law as per No. 06 of the Notice :–––––––––––––––.
   4.3 Other Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––––––.
   4.4 Additional Professional qualification :–––––––––––––––.
   4.5 additional experiences :–––––––––––––––.
   4.6 Language Proficiency :–––––––––––––––.
   4.7 Proficiency in Information Technology :–––––––––––––––.
5.0 Whether you have been convicted guilty at any time or for any offence in a court of law :
    (Mark (P ) in the relevant cage) (if yes describe)
           y es  No
6.0 declaration of the applicant :
 i declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct, and all sections have been 
completed correctly. i am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, i am liable to 
disqualification, if detected before selection and to dismissal, if detected after appointment and I agree to be bound by all the 
rules and regulations.
  ––––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––––.
7.0. attestation of the applicant’s Signature :
 i certify that, Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................................................ who signed here is personally known to me and 
placed his/her signature on  ................................................ at my presence.
  ––––––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature and official stamp of the person attesting.
date :–––––––––––––––.
full name :–––––––––––––––.
designation: ...................................................................................
date: ..............................................
(Place the official frank).
8.0. Recommendation of the Head of the department: (only for the applicants in Public Service) 
i hereby inform that, Mr./Mrs./Miss  .....................................is serving in this institution and the particulars 
submitted by him/ her are correct, his/ her work and attendance are satisfactory and that he /she can be released if selected 
for this post.
 –––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department/ institution.
Name :–––––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––––.
(Place the official frank).
07–760

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
940
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
hOmE AffAIRS PROvINCIAL COuNCILS 
AND LOCAL GOvERNmENT 
Limited Competitive Examination for 
Recruitement to Grade III of management Service 
Officers Service - 2019(2020)
1.0 it is hereby notified that a limited competitive 
examination for Recruit ment to Grade iii of Management 
Service Officers Service shall be held by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations in the month of November 2020.
2.0 this examination shall be held in the following 
towns for the officers who hold permanent posts in public 
service and have been confirmed in the said posts and 
receive salaries under the Salary code in the category of 
Pl at Primary level as per Public administration circular 
03/2016 and the officers who receive salaries under Salary 
code MN-01-2016. the list of towns and the respective 
town numbers are furnished below. the commissioner 
General of Examinations may, at his discretion, cancel any 
of the examination centers owing to the insufficient number 
of candidates or another reason and decide an alternative 
center, taking the candidates' second preference into 
consideration.
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambanthota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mulativu 12
Vavuniya 13
trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
ampara 16
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Town Town No.
Badulla 21
Monaragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Kilinochchi 25
3.0  (i) this examination shall be held by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and the candidates 
shall be bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by 
him for conducting the examination and issuance of results. 
His Decision shall be the final.
(ii) Rules and regulations for candidates are provided 
separately in the Gazette notification. Candidates are liable 
to any punishment imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations, for breach of these rules.
4.0 Medium in which candidates should sit for the 
examination.– this examination shall be held in Sinhala, 
tamil & English languages. candidates may sit for 
this examination in only one language medium of their 
preference. candidates shall not be allowed to change the 
language medium subsequently.
5.0 Salary.– as per the Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, the monthly salary scale 
applicable to Grade iii, ii and i of the Management Service 
Officers service is Rs. 28,940 - 10x300 - 11x350 - 10x560 
- 10x660 - Rs. 47,990/-. Officers should obtain promotion 
to Grade ii and Grade i to go beyond the salary point of                   
Rs. 31,940/- and Rs. 35,790/- respectively. in addition, you 
are entitled to other allowances paid to the public officers by 
the government from time to time.
Note:-
they shall be granted incremental credit subject to the 
incremental credit rules prevailing at the time of 
receiving appointment.
6.0 Conditions of Service :
 (i) Number of appointments and the effective date 
of appointments shall be determined by the 
appointing authority. the appointing authority 
reserves the right to refrain from filling of some 
or all vacancies.
 (ii) Selected candidates shall be appointed to a post in 
Grade iii subject to general conditions governing 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
941
the appointments in the Public Service, terms 
and conditions set out by the Service Minute of 
Management Service Officers Service published 
in the gazette extraordinary of democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri lanka No. 1840/34 
dated 11.12.2013, revisions already made and 
will be made thereto in due course to the said 
service minute, provisions of the Establishments 
code and financial regulat ions and Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission 
published in the Gazette Extraordinary                                                                          
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
 (iii) candidates who are successful in this 
examination shall be appointed on an acting basis 
for one year from the date of the appointment. 
their posts shall be permanent and pensionable. 
First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed 
within 03 years from the date of recruitment 
to Grade III of Management Service Officers 
Service, as mentioned in the service minute.
 (iv) candidates who receive appointments on the 
results of the examination shall be liable to 
transfer and may be posted to any station in                  
Sri lanka.
 (v) The officer shall compulsorily serve at the service 
station to which he/she is appointed at first for 
three years. However, the appointing authority 
reserves the right to transfer any officer before 
the lapse of said period, on special reasons as 
determined by the same, if it is required to make 
such transfer.
 (vi) Prescribed official language proficiency should 
be achieved before the lapse of 05 years from the 
date of appointment in terms of the provisions 
of Public administration circular 01/2014 and 
circulars consequent to it.
Note: The officers in provincial public services are 
not allowed to sit for this examination.
7.0 Selections for Appointments.– The officers who hold 
permanent posts in public service and have been confirmed 
in the same posts and further receive salaries under Salary 
code in the category of Pl  at Primary level as per Public 
Administration Circular 03/2016 and the officers who 
receive salaries under Salary code MN-01-2016 should 
strictly be allowed to sit for the competitive examination. 
candidates may sit for the examination strictly in one 
language medium of their preference. At least fifty percent 
(50%) should be obtained from the total marks of the 
examination. appointments shall be made on the order of 
merit and the number of existing vacancies.
8.0 eligibility.– to be eligible to complete in this 
examination, every applicant shall; 
 (i) Shall be officers who are holding permanent 
posts in public service and receiving the salary at 
primary level under salary codes of Pl  category 
and officers receiving salary under salary code 
MN-01-2016 as per Public administration circular 
No.03/2016. 
 
 (ii) Shall have completed at least 5 years active service 
period in a permanent post and should not have 
been subject to a disciplinary punishment as per the 
provisions set out in Public Service commission 
circular No. 01/2020 for the closing date of 
application and that fact shall be certified by the 
Head of the department.
 (iii) Shall have passed the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary level) Examination in not 
less than six (06) subjects including language / 
literature and arithmetic / Pure Mathematics / 
Elementary Mathematics / commercial arithmetic 
with credits passes for two subjects at not more 
than two sittings.
Note: - Public Service Commission has decided to 
grant two consecutive sittings to the officers in 
Primary Service Category (minor Employees), 
who have passed grade 8 and been recruited before 
26.11.2001, to sit for the Limited Competitive 
Examination of Management Service Officers 
Service. Accordingly the officers, in Primary Service 
Category (minor Employee), who have passed 
grade 8 and been recruited before 26.11.2001, can 
apply for examination at this occasion.
 (iv) candidates shall be of an excellent character.
 (v) all the candidates shall have the physical and 
mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and 
to perform the duties of the post.
 (vi) All qualifications prescribed for recruitment to the 
post shall be completed as at 24
th of August 2020.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
942
Note:-
1. Period of service served prior to receiving a 
permanent appointment or any period of service or 
training period covered by a candidate prior to the 
appointment to a certain post on permanent basis or 
a training period which shall have to be completed 
as a condition for appointment to a certain post 
on permanent basis shall not be considered for the                    
05 years period mentioned in (ii) above. further 
the period of service under casual/temporary basis 
completed by a candidate before his appointment to 
a certain post on permanent basis shall not be taken 
into account when calculating the qualifying 05 year 
period mentioned in (ii) above.
 
2. the Head of department should be prepared 
to release the officer if he/she is selected for an 
appointment.
3. Employees who are engaged in semi-technical work, 
who have been trained on a certain task or who have 
been given special training by the government shall 
not be eligible to sit this examination. for example, 
employees in engineering and industrial grades and 
Public Health Officers in the Department of Health 
shall not be eligible to sit for this examination. in 
case there are any doubts as to whether a particular 
employee is eligible or not, the applicant should 
consult the director General of combined Services 
through head of department.
 When inquired by the director General of combined 
Services regarding the eligibility of any employee in 
this regard, the department concerned should submit 
a comprehensive description of the job held by the 
employee with the salary scale and state whether 
the applicant had been given any training to equip 
himself to hold the job and the nature and duration 
of such training, if any.
4. t emporary and casual employees in public service, 
employees of Boards, corporations and similar 
bodies are not eligible to compete in this examination.
5. Except the employees in the combined Services, 
any other employee in Postal department who have 
been given a training according to the above 3, are 
not eligible to appear for this examination.
6. the candidates, before forwarding their applications, 
should satisfy themselves that they have fulfilled 
all the requirements prescribed herein. candidates 
who present themselves for the examination without 
fulfilling the prescribed requirements shall be 
disqualified, even if they attain a required standard 
of marks in the examination.
9.0 Applications :-
(a)  (i) application forms should be prepared using 
a4 (21cmx29) (Normal Half sheet) size 
papers, in such a manner that paragraphs 
from No: 01 to 03 appear on the first page, 
and the paragraphs from No.4 onwards on 
the other pages.
 (ii) the title of the examination should be 
indicated in English language as well, 
in the application forms prepared in 
Sinhala, and tamil languages. a specimen 
form of application for admission to this 
examination is appended to this notification. 
the application should be prepared only 
as per the specimen appended to this and 
a candidate should not send more than one 
application form. it is further informed that 
photocopies or advanced copies should not be 
sent. Relevant information should be given 
legibly by candidate's own handwriting. 
applications which are incomplete and not 
prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form shall be rejected without any notice. 
it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the completed application form. it is the 
responsibility of the candidate to make sure 
that the application form perfected by him/
herself complies with the specimen given 
in the examination notice, as otherwise the 
application may be rejected.
 (iii) appointments are issued to the selected 
candidates strictly by the name with initials 
mentioned in the application and therefore 
the name should be correctly written in 
the application. it shall not be allowed to 
change the name or include a part in the 
name or remove a part at the issuance of 
appointments.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
943
(b) Examination fees - Examination fee is                            
Rs. 600. this fee can only be paid to any Post/
Sub Post Office to be credited to revenue head 
20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General of 
Examinations. one edge of the receipt obtained 
from should be pasted in the relevant cage of the 
application form. the fee is non-refundable and 
it shall not be paid back or transferred to pay any 
other examination fee, under any circumstances. 
it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the receipt. Money orders or Stamps are not 
accepted for examination fees.
(c) the application form must be completed 
correctly and legibly in the candidates own 
handwriting and sent by registered post to reach 
the
 commissioner General of Examinations,
 organization (Institutional and foreign 
Examination) Branch.  
 department of Examinations, Sri lanka,  
P.o.Box 1503,  
 colombo.  
 on or before 24.08.2020 the application closing 
date through the Heads of departments in which 
the candidates are serving.
10.0 Heads of departments are required to furnish a 
certificate as indicated at the end of the application form. 
any application received after the due date shall be rejected. 
the name of the examination should be clearly written 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
form. if any candidate fails to comply with this procedure, 
his/her application  is liable to be rejected. candidates are 
requested to forward their applications to the Heads of their 
departments well in advance enabling them to forward the 
applications to the commissioner General of Examinations 
on or before 24.08.2020.
the post and the service station of the candidate at the 
time of applying for the examination shall be applied for all 
the actions of the examination. any changes taken place after 
submitting application shall not be taken into consideration.
11.0 the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue a copy of the examination time table along with 
the admission card to all candidates whose applications 
have been received. concurrent to this, newspaper 
advertisement shall be published by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, informing the same. Without 
such admission card, no candidate shall be allowed to sit 
for the examination, if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should 
be taken to notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. When informing, 
the name of the examination applied for full name, address 
and the Nic number of the candidate shall be indicated. 
it would be advisable for candidates outside colombo 
to fax a letter of request along with a fax number of the 
candidate to the department of Examinations through the 
fax number mentioning the notification for sending a copy 
of the admission. further, it would be advisable to keep 
a copy of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to 
payment of examination fee and the receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any information requested by the 
department of Examinations.
Officers appearing for the examination should get the 
admission card attested in advance and produce it to the 
supervisor of the examination hall.
12.0 admission to the examination does not constitute 
acceptance of eligibility. Such admission shall be subjected 
to scrutiny at a later stage. issuance of an admission card to a 
candidate shall not necessarily mean that he/ she has fulfilled 
the requisite qualifications to sit for the examination.
13.0 the results shall be released to the director-General 
of combined Services by the commissioner-General of 
Examinations. in addition to the above results shall be 
informed to each candidate by the commissioner General of 
examination by post or via the website www.results.exams.
gov.lk
14.0 Identity of Candidates.– candidates shall be 
required to prove their identity in the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
for this purpose, any of the following documents shall be 
accepted.
(a) the National identity card
(b) a  valid passport  
(c) Valid driving license of Sri lanka
candidates should be dressed in a manner which 
exposes the full face (including ears) ensuring their clear 
identification. The candidates, who refuse to prove their 
identity in the said manner shall not be allowed to enter the 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
944
examination hall. further, candidates should remain in the 
examination hall from the moment of entering and leaving 
the examination hall without covering the face and ears 
enabling the examiners to identify them easily.
15.0 Heads of departments should approve duty leave 
to officers to whom admission cards have been issued by 
the commissioner General of Examinations enabling them 
to appear for the exam. traveling expenses are not payable.
16.0 Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– 
candidates should take care to furnish correct information 
when filling the application form. As per the rules and 
regulations of the examination, the candidature of any 
applicant may be cancelled prior to, during or after the 
examination, if his/her ineligibility to sit for the examination 
is disclosed. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate 
is found to be false at any stage he/she shall be liable to 
dismissal from the public service.
17.0 Scheme of examination.– the subjects of the 
examination and the marks assigned to each subject are 
given below:
Subjects Maximum
Marks
Pass 
Mark
Duration
language 
Proficiency and 
aptitude t est 
of Management 
Service
officers Service
100 40 2 1/2 
hours
aptitude 100 40 1 hour
Marks shall be deducted for illegible hand writing and 
spelling mistakes in every written answer paper. candidates 
may sit for the examination strictly in one language medium 
of their preference. At least fifty percent (50%) should 
be obtained from the total marks of the examination. 
appointment shall be made on the order of merit and the 
number of existing vacancies.
18.0 Syllabus.– Language Proficiency and Aptitude Test 
of Management Service Officers Service (duration 2 1/2 
hours)
the question paper shall consist of subject related 
questions designed to test the candidates' ability of 
expression, comprehension, spellings, language and essay, 
drafting a given letter, summarizing passages, expressing 
the idea of several given sentences in one sentence making 
graph based on the given data, and use of simple grammar.
Questions designed to test the knowledge of the candidate 
on basic rules and regulations applied in taking action 
regarding the documents of an office and Management 
Service Officer's knowledge on duties such as action to be 
taken on a letter containing matters on which the officer 
should take action.
Questions to test candidate's knowledge on the items used 
in the office such as call-up diary, voucher, moving registers, 
attendance registers, day stamp, official stamp and mail bag 
and their use. all questions should be answered.
Part I - Structural questions on comprehension in order 
to test the language skills, summarization and essay writing 
(1 hour 15 minutes - 50 marks)
Part II - Short questions, structured questions and essay 
type questions on a case, statement or paragraph in order to 
test the aptitude for Management Service Officers Service. 
(1 hour 15 minutes-50 marks)
Aptitude (Duration 1 hour).– this paper shall consist 
of subject related questions designed to test the candidates' 
skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning and general 
intelligence.
this consists of 50 questions of Multiple choice and 
Short answer model. (duration 01 hour) all questions 
should be answered.
19.0 the decision of the director General of combined 
Service shall be the final regarding any matter not provided 
for in this notice of examination.
20.0 in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the 
Sinhala notification shall prevail.
 S. 
alokabandara,
 director General of combined Services,
 Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,
 Provincial councils & local Government.
Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,
Provincial councils & local Government,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
03rd of July, 2020.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
945
Specimen Application form
(For office use only)
liMitEd coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR REcRuitEMENt to GRadE 111 of MaNaGEMENt
SERVicE officERS SERVicE - 2019(2020)
language medium of Examination : town town No. 
Sinhala  - 2 1.
tamil - 3 2.
English  - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)  (indicate the town in which you intend to sit the 
  examination as per the Gazette notification)
  (it shall not be allowed to change this subsequently)
1.0 1.1  Name in full :–––––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
 1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil) 
 1.3 Name with initials :–––––––––––––––.  
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
2.0   Place of Work and Address :
 2.1 Name and address of office/Department/lnstitution :–––––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
 2.2 Name and address of office/Department/lnstitution :–––––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil) 
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent :–––––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
3.0 3.1  Gender: female - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
    Male  - 0
 3.2  date of Birth:   year :   Month :         date :
 3.3 National identity card No. :
 3.4 Mobile phone No. :
4.0  Educational qualifications :
 4.1 If the Officer has been recruited before 26.11.2001 (when considered the effective date of the Appointment) 
highest grade passed at the school:-  

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
946
 4.2 Particulars of G.c.E. (0/l) Examination:-
   first Sitting Second Sitting
  y ear of the examination: ................................ ................................    
  index No. : ................................ ................................
    
Subject Grade Year in which the
candidate sat for the examination
i.     Sinhala/ tamil language
ii.    arithmetic / Pure Mathematics / 
       Elementary Mathematics /
       commercial arithmetic
iii.   ..........................................
iv.   ..........................................
v.    ..........................................
vi.    ..........................................  
vii.   ..........................................  
viii. ..........................................  
ix.  ..........................................  
X.  ..........................................  
.......................
........................
........................
........................
........................
........................
........................
........................
........................
........................
........................
.........................
..................................................................
..................................................................
..................................................................
..................................................................
..................................................................
..................................................................
..................................................................
..................................................................
..................................................................
..................................................................
..................................................................
..................................................................
5.0 Service particulars :
 5.1 Name of the institution at which you are serving at present  :–––––––––––––––. 
 5.2 Ministry or department to which it belongs :–––––––––––––––. 
 5.3 Clearly indicate the office and the Head of the Institution where your personal file is maintained :––––––––––––.
 5.4 designation of the present post :–––––––––––––––.
 5.5 date of appointment to the present post :–––––––––––––––. 
 5.6 Whether the present post is permanent or temporary  :–––––––––––––––.
 5.7 Whether confirmed in the present post :–––––––––––––––. 
 5.8 The date on which you qualified for confirmation in service :–––––––––––––––. 
 5.9 Reference No. and date of letter issued confirming you in the present post :–––––––––––––––.
 5.10 Present annual salary (consolidated) :–––––––––––––––.
 5.11 Salary Scale (as per Public administration circular No: 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016): - Pl-1-2016/ Pl-2-2016/
Pl-3-2016 /MN-01-2016 (cross off irrelevant words) :–––––––––––––––.
 5.12 Whether the present appointment is pensionable :–––––––––––––––.
 5.13 Period of service in the present post as at 24.08.2020 :–––––––––––––––.  
6.0  Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee:
 (i) Office to which the examination fee was paid :–––––––––––––––. 
 (ii) the date and number of the receipt :–––––––––––––––. 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
947
 (iii) amount paid :  
Affix the relevant receipt firmly here.
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
with the candidates)
i hereby certify that the information furnished here by me 
is correct. i am also aware that if any particular contained 
herein is found to be false or incorrect before appointment, i 
am liable to be disqualified and if found after appointment, 
i am liable to dismissal from service. further, i am bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examination on conducting the examination and 
decisions taken on issuance of results.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
 (in the presence of the Head of department)
date :––––––––––––.
Note:- the applicant should place his/her signature in 
the presence of his/her Head of department or an 
officer authorized to sign on behalf of him.
Attestation of Signature :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..............................................
employed at my place of work and who is personally known 
to me, placed his/her signature in my presence on ...............
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of 
 the person attesting.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address:––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department
i hereby certify,
 (1) that this candidate (Mr./Mrs./Miss.) ........................ 
is an employee in this department.
 (2) that he/she is holding a permanent post.
 (3) that he/she has been confirmed in a permanent post as 
at 24.08.2020.
 (4) that he/she has been issued a letter confirming him/
her in a permanent post.
 (5) that he/she has completed at least 5 years of active 
service on or before 24.08.2020.
 (6) that he/she is drawing a salary / or is on a scale of 
salary which is within the limits prescribed in para 
8.0 of the Gazette notification.
 (7) that he/she has not been subjected to a disciplinary 
punishment as per the provisions set out in Public 
Service commission circular No. 01/2020 as at 
24.08.2020.
 (8) that he/she could be released from his/her present 
post, if selected for an appointment on the results of 
this examination.
 (9) that the application bears a receipt to the value of              
Rs. 600/-
 (10) that the particulars given in his/her application 
have been checked with records available in this 
department and that he/she is eligible to sit for this 
examination according to the regulations prescribed 
in the Gazette notification relating to this examination.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of 
 Head of department.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
Note:
(1) This certificate should be signed only by the behalf 
Head of Department or by a Staff Officer duly 
authorized to sign. The officer issuing the certificate 
should be satisfied to the effect that the contents of 
the certificate are correct in all aspects.
(2) the application of any candidate who does not 
satisfy all the requirements of eligibility should 
not be forwarded to the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
07–506

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
948
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
hOmE AffAIRS PROvINCIAL COuNCILS 
AND LOCAL GOvERNmENT 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Class I of the Government Translators’ 
Service - 2019(2020)
aPPlicatioNS are invited hereby from candidates, who 
have possessed required qualifications for recruitment to 
class i of the translators’ Service.
 1.1 in this notice “Service” means the translators’ 
Service of the combined Services.
 1.2 this examination will be held in colombo by 
the commissioner-General of Examinations in 
the month of November. the director General of 
combined Services reserves the right to postpone 
or cancel this examination. Number of persons to be 
appointed on the results of the examination and the 
effective date of appointments will be determined by 
the appointing authority. the appointing authority 
reserves the right to refrain from filling all or some of 
the vacancies. The number of vacancies to be filled 
in each language medium will be determined by the 
appointing authority depending on the national 
requirement.
 2.0 Recruitment will be made for the following media:
  (i) Sinhala/tamil - tamil/Sinhala
  (ii) Sinhala/English - English/Sinhala
  (iii) t amil/English - English/tamil
 3.0 Salary Scale.–  as per the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016, dated 25.02.2016 Salary code  
Number of class i of translators Service subject is                        
MN-6-2016 and accordingly, monthly salary scale of class 
i of translators' service is Rs. 43,940 - 10x755 - 15x930 -                           
Rs. 65,440/-. Officers are required to pass first efficiency bar 
before reaching 4
th salary step.
4.0 This post is permanent and pensionable. The officers, 
who are appointed to the class i of Government translators’ 
Service, shall be subjected to the policy decision taken 
in due course by the Government regarding the pension 
scheme applicable to such officers.
5.0 Conditions of Service :
 i. Selected candidates will be appointed to class 
i of the translators’ Service subject to the 
general conditions governing the appointments 
to the Public Service and on the terms and 
conditions set out in the Minute of the 
translators' Service published in the Gazette 
extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 829/7 of 26.07.1994, 
and any amendments already made and would 
be made thereto in future.
 II. The officer shall serve strictly at the service 
station, to which he/she is attached for the first 
time, for a period of 03 years. However, the 
appointing authority reserves the right to transfer 
such officer before the lapse of compulsory 
period in case where, the appointing authority  
determines the transfer of an officer is required 
on specific reasons.
 III. Officers are required to acquire the level of 
competency in the prescribed official language 
before the lapse of 05 years from the date of 
appointment as per the Public administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and other circulars issued 
consequently in this regard.
6.0 Qualifications: - Following qualifications shall be 
applicable for recruitment to class i of the Government 
translators' Service. accordingly,
(a) be a citizen of Sri lanka,
(b) be of an excellent character,
(c) be with sound physical and mental condition 
to serve in any part of the island and perform 
the duties of the post,
(d) Educational Qualifications :
 (i) Shall have possessed credit passes for the 
two-language media in which the officer 
is required to perform his/ her duties in 
translations or other qualification above 
the aforesaid requirement ;
  and
 (ii) Shall have possessed a degree from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission.
(e) Age :-
Shall be a person not below 21 years and not 
above 40 years of age on the closing date for 
applications falls. (Accordingly only the 
candidates, whose date of birth fall on or 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
949
(c) candidates’ signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of 
a Government School, a Justice of Peace, 
commissioner for oaths, attorney at- law, 
Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the 
Armed Forces, an Officer holding a gazetted 
post in the Police Service or an Officer holding 
a permanent post in staff grade in Public 
Service or Provincial Public Service.
(d) the completed applications should be sent 
by registered post to the “Commissioner- 
General of Examinations, Organization 
(Institutional & foreign Examination 
branch), Department of Examinations 
- Sri Lanka, Po.box. 1503, Colombo” so 
as to reach him on or before 24
th of August 
2020. applications received after that date 
will not be accepted. the top-left hand corner 
of the envelope containing the application 
should clearly bear the words “Open 
Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Government Translators’ Service - 
2019(2020).”
(e) the candidates who are in the Public Service at 
present shall submit their applications through 
the Head of the department under whom they 
serve. a candidate who fails to do so, shall 
be considered as disqualified. Candidates 
are requested to submit their applications 
to the Head of the department as early as 
possible to enable him to forward them to the 
commissioner-General of Examinations on or 
before 24
th of August 2020.
(f) any application which is not complete in every 
respect is liable to be rejected without notice. 
complaints on applications 'getting lost or 
delayed in the post shall not be considered.
(g) all applicants should read the Gazette 
Notification carefully before the application 
form is completed. Relevant codes should 
be written correctly and no appeals will be 
considered regarding any corrections due 
to mistakes or inadvertence. it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the application and 
the cash receipt with the candidate. Receipt 
of applications shall not be acknowledged. 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to all candidates, 
before 24.08.1999 and whose date of birth 
fall on or after 24.08.1980 are qualified for 
applying)
Note : i.  the age limit mentioned above shall 
not be applicable to the officers who 
are holding permanent posts in the 
Public or Provincial Public Service.
 ii.  the effective date of the above 
mentioned degree certificate and other 
certificates shall be a date falls on or 
before the closing date of applications.
 iii. in case where a candidate, who 
has passed in any two subjects out 
of Sinhala, tamil and English at 
the degree Examination, has been 
selected for an appointment, such 
candidate shall be placed two steps 
above the initial salary of the scale.
7.0 examination Fees.– the fee for the examination 
is Rs. 600/-. fees shall be paid to any district/divisional 
Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 
before the closing date of the applications. the receipt 
received in favor of the name of the candidate shall be 
affixed in the relevant cage of the application. Fees are not 
refundable. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the cash 
receipt with the candidate.
8.0 Method of Application :
(a) the application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification and 
should be prepared on a-4 size papers using 
both sides of the papers. it shall be perfected 
by the candidate himself. It shall specifically 
be noted that the application forms shall be so 
prepared that cages 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the 
first side of the paper, from 6.0 onwards appear 
on the other sides of the papers. the title of the 
examination appearing in the specimen shall 
be indicated in English language as well, on 
both Sinhala and tamil application forms.
(b) the application shall be prepared in the 
language in which the candidate intends to sit 
the examination.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
950
who have submitted their applications, on the 
supposition that only the qualified candidates 
have applied. a notice shall be published 
in the newspapers by the department of 
Examinations as soon as admission cards are 
issued to candidates. if the admission card is 
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such an 
advertisement, steps shall be taken to notify 
the department of Examinations in the manner 
specified in the advertisement informing the 
name of the examination applied for, full name, 
address and the Nic number of the candidate. 
it would be advisable for candidates outside 
colombo to fax a letter of request along with a 
fax number of the candidate to the department 
of Examinations through the fax number 
mentioning the notification for sending a copy 
of the admission. further, it would be advisable 
to keep'a copy of the application, copy of the 
receipt relevant to payment of examination fee 
and the receipt of registration of the application 
to prove any information requested by the 
department of Examinations.
9.0  Admission to the examination :
 (a) a  candidate presenting for the examination must 
produce his/her admission card to the supervisor 
of the examination centre. a candidate who fails 
to produce his/her admission card will not be 
permitted to sit the examination.
 (b) the candidate must sit the examination at the 
examination hall which has been assigned to him/
her. Every candidate should get his/her signature 
attested in advance and admission card shall 
be surrendered to the supervisor of the hall on 
the first day he/she presents him/herself for the 
examination. a set of rules to be observed by all 
candidates is published in this Gazette.
Note: the issue of an admission card to a 
candidate does not necessarily mean that he/
she has the required qualifications to sit the 
examination.
10.0 Identification of Candidates : a candidate will be 
required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject offered. 
for this purpose any of the following documents will be 
accepted :
(a) National identity card,
(b) a valid Passport,
(c) a valid driving license of Sri lanka.
further candidates shall enter the examination hall 
without covering their face and ears enabling to identify 
them at the hall. those, who refuse to reveal their identity, 
shall not be allowed to enter the examination hall. further 
such candidates shall remain their face and ears uncovered 
enabling the supervisors to identify them without any 
obstacle until they are allowed to leave at the end of the 
prescribed time. However, such candidates may be allowed 
to sit for the examination if they raise an objection but their 
results shall not be issued due to inability to verify their 
identity.
11.0 Penalty for furnishing false information:- if 
a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after 
the examination. if any of the particulars furnished by a 
candidate is found to be false within his knowledge or if 
he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she will be 
liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
12.0 Method of examination :– it consists of two parts. 
i.e. written examination and an interview.
12.1 Written Examination Question papers on the 
following subjects :-
(a) t ranslation - 100 marks - 3 hour duration
(b) English language - 100 marks - 1 1/2 hour 
and 30 minutes
(c) Sinhala language - 100 marks - 1 1/2 hour 
and 30 minutes
(d) t amil language - 100 marks - 1 1/2 hour 
and 30 minutes
(e) comprehension - 100 marks - 1 1/2 hour 
and 30 minutes
12.1.1 Syllabus :
(a) Translation : Translation of difficult 
passages taken from official, 
scientific,'legal and technical 
documents and classical literature 
including extracts from an official  
document, report or newspaper 
article either (i) or (ii) or (iii) or of 
the following :

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
951
 (i) from Sinhala to tamil and 
tamil to Sinhala
 (ii) from Sinhala to English and 
English to Sinhala
 (iii) from tamil to English and 
English to tamil
  (a high standard of 
competency is expected in 
translation)
Note: English/Sinhala/Tamil Language Paper :- 
for this purpose question papers shall be 
designed in three languages and the candidate 
should sit for the relevant papers in two 
languages as per their medium.
(b) English Language : 
 a  candidate will be required 
to write an essay, to make a 
precis, to summarize a given passage 
in  candidate’s own words, to construct 
sentences using words to 
bring out their meaning, to 
correct grammatical errors in 
sentences and to explain the 
meaning of idioms
(c) Sinhala Language :
 a candidate will be required 
to write an essay, to make 
a precis, to summarize a given 
passage in candidate’s own 
words, to construct sentences using 
words to bring out their meaning, 
to correct grammatical errors in 
sentences and to explain the 
meaning of idioms.
(d) Tamil Language : 
 a candidate will be required to 
write an essay, to make a precis, 
to summarize a given passage in 
candidates own words, to construct 
sentences using words to bring 
out their meaning, to correct 
grammatical errors in sentences and 
to explain the meaning of idioms.
(e) Comprehension : 
 the comprehension paper shall be 
prepared in Sinhala/t amil/English 
languages and the candidates are 
allowed to answer the question 
papers in one of the languages 
according to their choice.
for this purpose, candidates will be given a set of 
passages, and also candidates will be presented 
with a set of alternative statements one of which 
fits the content of the passage best. He would be 
required to pick the most appropriate statement. in 
case of other passages questions will be set to test 
the extent to which the candidate is able to grasp 
the meaning of the passage.
N:B.–  Marks will be deducted for bad 
handwriting and spelling mistakes. a 
candidate whose handwriting is illegible 
is liable to be disqualified.
12.1.2 appointments shall be granted to the 
candidates, who secure a minimum of 40 
in each paper, depending on the order of 
the aggregate marks.
12.2 Interview :-an interview will be held only 
to examine the eligibility, certificates and the 
physical fitness of the candidates. No marks 
shall be awarded for this purpose.
13.0 examination Results.– the result sheet which 
prepared according to the merit order of the total marks 
scored by the candidates, who qualified as per the section 
12.1.2 of this notification will be forwarded to the Director 
General of combined Services by the commissioner 
General of Examination. issuance of the results personally 
to all the candidates who have sat for this examination or 
publishing of the results in the website -www.results.exam.
gov.lk will be made by the department of Examination                                         
Sri lanka.
14.0 candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for the purpose of conducting examinations 
and they shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by commissioner General of Examinations for 
violation of these rules and regulations.
15.0 This examination notification will be published in 
Sinhala, tamil and English languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
any matter not referred to herein will be decided by the 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
952
director General of combined Services. all the applicants bound by the general rules and regulations mentioned in this 
Gazette Notification.
 S. alokabandara, 
 director General of combined Services,
 Ministry of Public administration and 
 Home affairs Provincial councils and local Government.
Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,
Provincial councils and local Government, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07.
03rd of July 2020.
Specimen form of Application
oPEN  coMPEtitiVE  EXaMiNatioN  foR  REcRuitMENt  to  claSS  i  of
tHE GoVERNMENt tRaNSlatoRS’ SERVicE - 2019(2020)
(For office use only)
1.0. indicate below the post, which you compete for in the translators' Service :
   (i) Sinhala/tamil translator 1  
   (ii) Sinhala/English translator  2  
   (iii) t amil/English translator 3                           (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 language Medium  of Examination:
  Sinhala/tamil  - 2  
  Sinhala/English  - 3 
  t amil/English  - 4
       (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.0.   3.1. Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––––––. 
   3.2. Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––––. 
   3.3. Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil):–––––––––––––––. 
4.0.   4.1. address to which the application should be sent (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––––––. 
   4.2. Permanent address, (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––––––. 
   4.3. Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––––. 
   4.4. address to which the application shoul d be sent (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––––. 
5.0   5.1.  Sex :        female: 1 Male : 0
      (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   5.2. Number of Nic :
   5.3. Marital status : Married -1
     Single -2
      (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   5.4. date of Birth :   year :                                    Month :                        date :

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
953
   5.5.  age as at 24/08/2020 :  years :              Months :                     days :
   5.6.  Mobile Phone Number :
6.0  Particulars of educational qualifications you possess to appear for this examination as per para 6.0 of this Gazette 
Notification.
 (a) (i)  Name of the degree :––––––––––––––––.
  (ii) Name of the university :––––––––––––––––.
  (iii) Effective date of the degree :––––––––––––––––.
  (iv) language medium of the degree :––––––––––––––––.
  (v) other languages passed in the degree programme :
   (1) .........................................
   (2) .........................................
(b) (i)  the G.c.E. (o/l) Examination oR the similar examination from which a credit pass was obtained for the 
first language as per the two-language medium selected for translation :––––––––––––––––.
  y ear :––––––––––––––––.
 (ii)  the G.c.E. (o/l) Examination from which a credit pass was obtained for the 2nd language oR the Examination 
from which a similar qualification were obtained :
   Exam :––––––––––––––––.
  y ear :––––––––––––––––.
7.0 Whether you are holding a permanent post in Public or Provincial Public Service at present: yes/No
 Name of Post :––––––––––––––––.
 date of appointment :––––––––––––––––.
 Name and the address of the Present service station :––––––––––––––––.
8.0  Affix the receipt so as not to be detached:
9.0  I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the information given in this form is true and that, I have affixed 
the receipt No. ............. dated  ............................... being payment of the examination fee. i also agree to be bound by 
the rules governing the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or 
after the examination, if it is found that i am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination.
 i have carefully read the Gazette Notification and understood the contents thereof before completing this application 
form, and in case of any error in code numbers, or in the information supplied due to any mistake or inadvertence on 
my part, i promise to bear the loss caused thereby, and not to lodge any appeal in that connection. further, i agree to 
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by commissioner General of Examinations on conducting of the exam 
and issuance of results.
 –––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of candidate.
date :––––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
954
10.0 attestation of the candidate's Signature:
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. 
residing at  .............................................................................
 /serving in this office is personally known to me and that he/
she signed before me on  .......................................................
and further the receipt of examination fee is affixed on 
payment of relevant fee.
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the person attesting:
date :––––––––––––––––.
Name in full of the attestor :––––––––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed with Official Stamp)
Note - the signatures of the persons in public service 
should be certified by the relevant Head of the 
Department or by an officer authorized to do so on 
behalf of him.
11.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department:
i certify that the particulars given by this applicant in 
paras 5.0, 6.0 and 7.0 are correct, his /her work and conduct 
are satisfactory and that he/she has satisfied the qualifications 
as per Gazette Notification to appear for this examination.
He/she can be released from service if selected.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and Official Stamp of the 
 Head of department.
date :––––––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––––––.
07–504
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
hOmE AffAIRS, PROvINCIAL COuNCILS 
AND LOCAL GOvERNmENT 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Grade III of Management Service Officers 
Service - 2019(2020)
it is hereby notified that the Open Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to the Posts in class iii of Management 
Service Officers Service shall be held by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations in the month of November 2020. 
the examination shall be held at the examination centers 
located in the towns mentioned in the Schedule ii. the 
expected town to sit for the examination shall be selected 
as per that Schedule and the town expected to sit for the 
examination and the relevant number of the town should be 
mentioned correctly according to the Schedule ii. the towns 
applied for, which should be mentioned on the title of the 
application, should be exactly in line with the list.
2.0 Candidates who satisfy the prescribed qualifications 
shall be selected on merit, on the results of a written 
examination to be conducted by the commissioner General 
of Examinations and, on the basis of district population 
ratio, to the posts in the Grade iii of Management Service 
Officers Service.
3.0 (a) Number of persons to be appointed and effective 
date of appointments shall be determined by the appointing 
authority. further, the appointing authority reserves the 
right to refrain from filling some or all of the vacancies.
(b) Selected candidates shall be appointed to a post 
in Grade iii subject to general conditions governing the 
appointments in the Public Service, terms and conditions 
set out by the Service Minute of Management Service 
Officers Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary of 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka No. 1840/34 
dated 11.12.2013, amendment already made and will be 
made thereto in due course to the said service minute, 
provisions of the Establishments code and financial 
regulations and Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary                                               
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
(c) The officer shall compulsorily serve at the service 
station to which he/she is appointed at first for three years. 
However, the appointing authority reserves the right 
to transfer any officer before the lapse of said period, on 
special reasons as determined by the same, if it is required 
to make such transfer.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
955
(d) this appointment is subject to a probation period 
of three years. The first efficiency bar examination shall 
be passed by the officer within a period of 03 years after 
recruiting to Grade III of the Management Service Officers 
Service as prescribed in the Service Minute.
(e) Prescribed official language proficiency shall be 
obtained within 05 years of joining the service as per Public 
administration circular 01/2014 and consequent circulars.
4.0 Salary.– as per the Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016, dated 25.02.2016, monthly salary scale entitled 
to Grade III, II and I of Management Service Officers 
Service is Rs. 28,940 - 10x300 - 11x350- 10x560- 10x660 
- Rs. 47,990/-. Promotion to Grade ii should be obtained to 
go beyond Rs. 31,940/- whilst promotion to Grade i shall be 
required to go beyond Rs. 35,790.
5.0 this post is permanent and pensionable. the 
pension scheme entitled for the officers in Grade III of 
Management Service Officers Service shall be determined 
on the policy decision taken by the government in future.
6.0 Qualifications.– Following qualifications are 
applicable for the recruitment to posts in class iii of 
Management Service Officers Service.
(a) Shall be a citizen of Sri lanka.
(b) Shall be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years of age on the closing date of 
applications. (accordingly, the candidates whose 
birthday falls on or before 24.08.2002 and on or 
after 24.08.1990 shall strictly be eligible to apply 
for this).
(c) Shall be of an excellent character.
(d)  Shall be of an excellent moral character and 
physical fitness to serve at any part of the island.
(e)  Shall have fulfilled the following educational 
qualifications :
(1) Shall have passed six (06) subjects with credit 
passes for four (04) subjects including Sinhala 
/tamil /English and Mathematics at the 
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary 
level) Examination at one sitting ;
 and
(2) Shall have passed all the subjects in General 
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) 
at one sitting (except the General Paper and 
General English).
Note.- in case where other o/l and a/l educational 
qualifications except the G.C.E. (O/L) and G.C.E. 
(a/l) examinations held by commissioner 
General of Examination are submitted, the decision 
for granting or rejecting appointments should 
be determined by the appointing authority on 
verification of validity and the ability to make the 
above (e) 1 and 2 of such qualifications applicable 
from relevant institutions.
N.B. - It is compulsory to have satisfied all 
qualifications prescribed for the post by 
candidates on or before 24
th of August 2020
7.0 Selection on district population basis.– district 
Name list is indicated as schedule i. the district selected to 
compete for vacancies and its number should be mentioned 
in the application correctly according to the Schedule i.
(a) Recruitment to the service shall strictly be on 
a representative basis. A fixed number of 
vacancies shall be set apart for each district 
in proportion to its population. only the 
applicants from a particular district shall be 
entitled to compete for the number of vacancies 
to be filled from that district.
(i)  if the vacancies so allocated to a particular 
district cannot be filled by the applicants 
who have applied for that particular 
district and have satisfied the qualifications, 
number of vacancies shall be re- distributed 
among the adjoining districts in proportion 
to population.
(ii) If the total  number of vacancies to be filled is 
few and the district population basis cannot 
be applied, selection shall be made on the 
order of merit.
(iii) Where the number of candidates who 
secure the minimum marks required is less 
than the number of vacancies available 
in a district, the district population basis 
shall not be applied for the selection.
(b)  Eligibility for inclusion in a district.
 at least one of the following requirements 
should have been fulfilled by a candidate to 
compete for the vacancies in any district.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
956
 (i) the candidate should have been born in the 
district;
  or
 (ii) He should have been a permanent resident of 
the district at least for three (03) continuous 
years within the five (05) years immediately  
preceding the last date to fulfill the eligibility 
qualifications for the examination;
  or
 (iii) He should have received his secondary school 
education within the district for five (05) 
continuous years.
Note:-
1.  In order to confirm the residence of the candidate 
who is selected from the written examination, he/
she is bound to forward following documents, 
at the interview or any time inquired. 
 I. Birth Certificate ;
 ii. Extracts from electoral registers 
confirming the residence of a period 
of continuous three (03) years and the 
certificate of residence issued by Grama 
Niladhari ;
 III.  School leaving Certificate ; 
 
2.  if the farther/mother of any candidate has 
been employed in a transferable service of the 
government or of a provincial public service, 
or of a state corporation, such candidate shall 
be allowed to choose his own, or his father's/
mother's place of birth as his district. (at the  
interview or any time candidates are required 
to forward documents to prove the place of 
birth of the parents and that they work in 
Government or Provincial Public Service or Public 
corporation.)
3. No candidate shall be allowed to compete for 
vacancies in more than one district. once a 
candidate declares a district of his choice as the 
most preferred, it should remain irrevocable.
8.0 three percent (3%) of the existing number of 
vacancies shall be reserved for persons with disabilities. 
only 3% of the persons with disabilities who secure highest 
marks in the examination and qualify shall be selected for 
appointments. the minimum level of marks candidates 
should score to be selected for appointment is 50% of the 
total marks of the examination. a candidate selected for an 
appointment shall be referred to a Special Medical Board 
and, by a report obtained from a medical specialist; he/she 
should establish the disablement and the fact that, it does not 
hinder performance of duties of the respective post.
Note- the applicant should mention in the application 
that.he/she applies under disabled rehabilitation 
conditions. a person who is not disabled should not 
imply himself/herself as a disabled person.
9.0 Scheme of the examination :-
(a) this examination shall be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English media. candidate may sit this 
examination in only one language medium of their 
preferences and should answer for the question 
papers using that language medium. candidates 
shall not be allowed to change language medium 
applied initially. the examination shall consist of 
two papers.
 Marks  Durations
 (i) language 100 2 1/2 hours
  proficiency
 (ii) aptitude 100 1 hour
Language Proficiency :- This question paper shall 
consist of subject related 
questions designed to test 
the candidates' ability of 
expression, comprehension, 
spelling, language and essay, 
drafting a given letter, making 
graphs based on the given 
data, summarizing passages, 
expressing the idea of several 
given sentences in one 
sentence and use of simple 
grammar. all questions should 
be answered.
aptitude  :- this paper shall consist of 
subject related questions 
designed to test the candidates' 
skill at numbers, power 
of critical reasoning and 
general intelligence. this 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
957
 (i) the candidate should have been born in the 
district;
  or
 (ii) He should have been a permanent resident of 
the district at least for three (03) continuous 
years within the five (05) years immediately  
preceding the last date to fulfill the eligibility 
qualifications for the examination;
  or
 (iii) He should have received his secondary school 
education within the district for five (05) 
continuous years.
Note:-
1.  In order to confirm the residence of the candidate 
who is selected from the written examination, he/
she is bound to forward following documents, 
at the interview or any time inquired. 
 I. Birth Certificate ;
 ii. Extracts from electoral registers 
confirming the residence of a period 
of continuous three (03) years and the 
certificate of residence issued by Grama 
Niladhari ;
 III.  School leaving Certificate ; 
 
2.  if the farther/mother of any candidate has 
been employed in a transferable service of the 
government or of a provincial public service, 
or of a state corporation, such candidate shall 
be allowed to choose his own, or his father's/
mother's place of birth as his district. (at the  
interview or any time candidates are required 
to forward documents to prove the place of 
birth of the parents and that they work in 
Government or Provincial Public Service or Public 
corporation.)
3. No candidate shall be allowed to compete for 
vacancies in more than one district. once a 
candidate declares a district of his choice as the 
most preferred, it should remain irrevocable.
8.0 three percent (3%) of the existing number of 
vacancies shall be reserved for persons with disabilities. 
only 3% of the persons with disabilities who secure highest 
consists of 50 questions of 
Multiple choice and Short 
answer model. all questions 
should be answered.
Note:-
 i. these papers shall be designed to test the aptitude 
and ability of the candidate to perform his official 
duties. 
 ii. Marks shall be deducted for unclear handwriting 
and spelling mistakes in all the written question 
paper.
(b) despite this being a competitive examination, 
candidates are expected to secure at least forty 
percent (40%) of the marks allocated for each 
subject and an aggregate of at least fifty percent 
(50%) of the total marks of the examination. 
appointments shall strictly be made in the order of 
merit based on the total marks scored, depending 
on the number of vacancies set apart to be filled 
on the results of the competitive examination.
(c)  examination Results :
 issuance of results to each candidate shall be made 
by the commissioner General of examination by 
post or via the website www.results.exams.gov.
lk.
10.0 Penalty for furnishing false information:- the 
candidate should be very careful to include the correct 
particulars in the application. if it is found that any candidate 
is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this 
examination, his/her candidature can be cancelled at any 
time before, during or after the examination. further, if it 
is found that any information furnished by a candidate is 
false, he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public 
service.
11.0 examination Fees :- Examination fee is Rs. 600/-. 
This fee can only be paid to any Post/Sub Post Office to be 
credited to revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. the receipt obtained in the name 
of the applicant should be affixed in the relevant cage of the 
application so as not to be detached. (it is advisable to keep 
a photocopy of this receipt with the candidate). under no 
circumstance the examination fee shall be refunded. Money 
orders and stamps shall not be accepted.
12.0 Applications :- applications should be prepared in 
the following manner using a paper of size a4 (21 X 29 cm) 
(normal half sheets)
(a) Paragraphs from 1 to 3 should appear on the first 
side of the page.
(b) Paragraphs No. 4 onwards should appear on the 
other pages.
(c) the title of the examination appearing in the 
specimen should be indicated in English language 
as well, on both Sinhala and tamil application 
forms.
applications which are incomplete and not prepared 
in accordance with the specimen form, shall be rejected 
without any notice. applications of those who have not 
paid examination fees on or before due date shall also be 
rejected. candidates should be responsible for any loss 
incurred by them due to incompleteness of applications. it 
is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the 
application form perfected by him/herself complies with 
the specimen given in the examination notice and further, 
it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form.
N.B: 1. candidates are not allowed to change the town 
in which they apply to sit the examination. at 
the instances where the number of candidates 
apply for a certain town, is not sufficient to 
hold an examination centre, they shall be 
directed to the town which they have indicated 
as second preference. However, if there is not 
sufficient number of candidates even at the 
second centre, the candidates shall be directed 
to an adjoining city. the commissioner General 
of Examinations reserves the right to make the 
final decision about the cities where exam shall 
be held. 
 2.  as the appointments are issued to the selected 
candidates strictly by the name with initials 
mentioned in the application, the name should 
be correctly written. it shall not be allowed to 
change the name or include a part in the name or 
remove a part at the issuance of appointments.
12.1 all applicants who have paid prescribed 
examination fees and forwarded their 
applications on or before the prescribed 
date shall be allowed to sit the competitive 
examination, by the commissioner General 

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
958
of Examinations, on the presumption that only 
those who possess qualifications indicated in 
the Gazette Notification have forwarded their 
applications. issuing of an admission card to 
a candidate to sit the competitive examination 
does not mean that the candidates' eligibility for 
the post has been accepted. if it is found at the 
interview that the applicant does not possess 
the required qualifications prescribed in the 
Gazette notification, his or her candidature 
shall be cancelled.
12.2 the words “Open Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to Grade III of management 
Service Officers Service - 2019 (2020)” and 
the district for which the candidate is competing 
should be written on the top left-hand corner 
of the envelope in which the application is 
enclosed.
12.3 applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post to reach the following address 
on or before 24.08.2020
commissioner General of Examinations,
organization (institutional and foreign 
Examinations) Branch,
department of Examinations, Sri lanka
P.o. Box 1503
colombo.
13.0 Sitting the examination:- A notification shall be 
published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards 
are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. Here it would 
be advised to inquire from department of examination 
with keeping the certified photocopies of the application 
form and the cash receipt kept at your possession, receipt 
of registration in hand and mentioning the name of the 
examination applied for, full name, Nic No and address. 
it would be advisable for candidates outside colombo 
to fax a letter of request along with a fax number of the 
candidate to the department of Examinations through the fax 
number mentioning the notification for sending a copy of 
the admission.
the signature of the applicant placed on the application 
and admission card should also be attested. an applicant 
who submits the application through an institution should 
get his/her signature attested by the Head of the institution 
or any officer authorized by him Other applicants should 
get their signature attested by a School Principal/ Retired 
Officer, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney at law, Notary Public, a 
commissioned officer in three armed forces, a staff officer in 
the public or provincial public service or a chief incumbent of 
a Buddhist temple or clergy of any other religion who holds 
a considerable position. At the first instant the admission in 
which the signature is attested should be presented to the 
head of examination hall. a candidate who does not present 
the admission card shall not be permitted to sit for the exam.
14.0 candidates shall be required to prove their identity 
in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
for each subject they offer. for this purpose, any of the 
following documents shall be accepted.
 i. National identity card,
 ii. a  valid Passport,
 iii. a  valid driving license of Sri lanka.
candidates should be dressed in a manner which 
exposes the full face (including ears) ensuring their clear 
identification. The candidates, who refuse to prove their 
identity in the said manner shall not be allowed to enter the 
examination hall. further, candidates should remain in the 
examination hall from the moment of entering and leaving 
the examination hall without covering the face and ears 
enabling the examiners to identify them easily.
15.0 the issuing of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he/she has the required 
qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates shall 
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for the purpose 
of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be 
subjected to any punishment imposed by commissioner 
General of Examinations for violation of these rules and 
regulations.
16.0 any matter not referred to herein shall be decided 
by director General of combined Services. all candidates 
are bound to comply with the general examination rules 
published in this Gazette.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
959
the signature of the applicant placed on the application 
and admission card should also be attested. an applicant 
who submits the application through an institution should 
get his/her signature attested by the Head of the institution 
or any officer authorized by him Other applicants should 
get their signature attested by a School Principal/ Retired 
Officer, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney at law, Notary Public, a 
commissioned officer in three armed forces, a staff officer in 
the public or provincial public service or a chief incumbent of 
a Buddhist temple or clergy of any other religion who holds 
a considerable position. At the first instant the admission in 
which the signature is attested should be presented to the 
head of examination hall. a candidate who does not present 
the admission card shall not be permitted to sit for the exam.
14.0 candidates shall be required to prove their identity 
in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
for each subject they offer. for this purpose, any of the 
following documents shall be accepted.
 i. National identity card,
 ii. a  valid Passport,
 iii. a  valid driving license of Sri lanka.
candidates should be dressed in a manner which 
exposes the full face (including ears) ensuring their clear 
identification. The candidates, who refuse to prove their 
identity in the said manner shall not be allowed to enter the 
examination hall. further, candidates should remain in the 
examination hall from the moment of entering and leaving 
the examination hall without covering the face and ears 
enabling the examiners to identify them easily.
15.0 the issuing of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he/she has the required 
qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates shall 
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for the purpose 
of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be 
subjected to any punishment imposed by commissioner 
General of Examinations for violation of these rules and 
regulations.
16.0 any matter not referred to herein shall be decided 
by director General of combined Services. all candidates 
are bound to comply with the general examination rules 
published in this Gazette.
17.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 S. alokabandara,
 director General of combined Services, Ministry of Public administration, 
 Home affairs, Provincial councils & local Government.
Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,
Provincial councils & local Government,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
03rd of July, 2020.
(For office use only)
Specimen Application form
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR REcRuitMENt to GRadE iii of MaNaGEMENt SERVicE 
officERS SERVicE - 2019(2020)
(indicate the correct code/number clearly in the relevant cages)
language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala  - 2 
tamil - 3 
English - 4
(indicate the correct number in the cage)
■ indicate the town and the town number in which the candidate 
 intends to sit the examination as per the Gazette notification. 
 (See the schedule ii for the towns where the examination centers 
 are located and for the respective numbers)
■ the district in which you select to compete for vacancies as 
 per para 7.0 of the Gazette notification. 
 (See the schedule i for the Numbers of districts.
 indicate the number and the district in the relevant cage)
■  Are you sitting this examination under the conditions laid down in
  para 8.0 of the Gazette notification which are relevant to disability?  Yes - 1
 (candidates may refer para 8.0 of the Gazette Notification carefully   No. - 2
 before filling this section since only the differently able candidates   
 are required to mention "yes" in this part.)     (indicate the number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name in full :–––––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.3 Name with initials :–––––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
District District No.
Town Number of the Town
1.
2.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
960
2,0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)  
 2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)  
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent :–––––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) . 
3.0   3.1 Number of the N.i.c. :
 3.2 Sex : Male - 0      female -1
   (indicate relevant number in the cage)
 3.3 date of birth :  year :                                  Month :                      date :
 3.4 age as at 24.08.2020 : years :                     Months :                     days :
 3.5 Mobile Phone No. :
4.0 4.1  Since when you have been residing in the District ?  :–––––––––––––––.
 4.2 divisional Secretary's / assistant Government agent's division  :–––––––––––––––.
 4.3 Grama Niladhari division  :–––––––––––––––.
5.0     Educational qualifications :
 5.1 Particulars of G.c.E (o/l) Examination :
   i y ear and Month of the Examination  :–––––––––––––––.
   ii index Number of candidate  :–––––––––––––––.
   iii Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 5.2 Particulars of G.c.E (a/l) Examination :
   i y ear and Month of the Examination  :–––––––––––––––.
   ii index Number of candidate  :–––––––––––––––.
   iii Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
 5.3 if possessing a degree from a recognized university,
   i Name of the university : ............................................................................................ 
   ii degree ................................................................................................. : .................... 
   iii y ear of Examination : ................................................................................................

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
961
6.0    Other qualifications :–––––––––––––––.
7.0   Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court of Law? 
 (indicate P in the Relevant cage)    y es No
 (indicate particulars, if the answer is yes)
8.0    Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee:
 I Office to which the payment was made :–––––––––––––––.
 ii Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––––––.
 iii amount :–––––––––––––––.
 
 Affix the receipt firmly here.
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the candidate)
9.0   Candidate's Certificate :
 (a) i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i agree to suffer any loss that may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections and/or provision of 
erroneous information. I also state that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
 (b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification before 
appointment and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected af ter appointment.
 (c) i hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations for the 
purpose of holding this examination.
 (d)  i shall not change any information mentioned herein subsequently.
date :–––––––––––––––. –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
10.0   attestation of applicant's Signature :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... who submits this application is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ................................... and further the officer has paid the 
prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the applications.
date :–––––––––––––––. ––––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature :–––––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
962
Schedule - i
the liSt oF the nameS oF diStrictS
 District  District Number
colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mulativu 12
Vavuniya 13
trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
ampara 16
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Monaragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Kilinochchi 25
Schedule - ii
townS where examination centerS will be located
 District  Town  No.of the 
   Town
(01) colombo Kotahena 01
 Maradana 02
 Borella 03
 Kurunduwatta 04
 Bambalapiti ya 05
 Havelock t own 06
 Nugegoda 07
 Moratuwa 08
 Piliyandala 09
 Homagama 10
 Maharagama 11
 Hanwella 12
 a vissawella 13
(02) Gampaha Negombo 14
 Minuwangoda 15
 divulapitiya 16
 Veyangoda 17
 Gampaha 18
 Ja-Ela 19
 Wattala 20
 Kelaniya 21
 dompe 22
(03) Kalutara Horana 23
 Panadura 24
 Kalutara 25
 Matugama 26
 aluthgama 27
(04) Matale Matale 28
 Galewela 29
 Naula 30
 laggala Pallegama 31
(05) Kandy Kandy 32
 Katugastota 33
 teldeniya 34
 Wattegama 35
 Nugawela 36
 Galagedara 37
 Gampola 38
(06) Nuwara Eliya Hedunuwewa 39
 Nuwara Eliya 40
 Watumulla 41
 Hatton 42
 Ginigathhena 43
(07) Galle ambalangoda 44
 Galle 45
 Baddegama 46
 District  Town  No.of the 
   Town

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'07'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.07.2020
963
(08) Matara Weligama 47
 Matara 48
 Kamburupitiya 49
 Hakmana 50
 deiyandara 51
 dikwella 52
 akuressa 53
 Kotopola 54
(09) Hambantota Beliatta 55
 Walasmulla 56
 Weeraketiya 57
 tangalle 58
 ambalantota 59
 Hambantota 60
 tissamaharama 61
(10) Jaffna chavakachcheri 62
 Jaffna 63
 thellipallai 64
 Point Pedro 65
(11) Mannar Mannar 66
 Murukkan 67
(12) Mullativu Mullativu 68
(13) Vavuniya Vavuniya 69
(14) trincomalee Kantalai 70
 trincomalee 71
 Muttur 72
 Padavi Parakramapura 73
 Kinniya 74
(15) Batticaloa Batticaloa 75
 Eravur 76
 Kathankudi 77
(16) ampara ampara 78
 Serankada 79
 Kalmunai 80
 akkaraeipattu 81
 Sammanthurai 82
(17) Puttalam Wennappuwa 83
 Madampe 84
 chilaw 85
 Puttalam 86
(18) Kurunegala Kuliyapitiya 87
 Bingiriya 88
 Narammala 89
 Polgahawela 90
 Kurunegala 91
 ibbagamuwa 92
 dodangaslanda 93
 Morathiha 94
 Nikaweratiya 95
 Maho 96
(19) anuradhapura Medawachchiya 97
 Kekirawa 98
 anuradhapura 99
 Galenbindunuwewa 100
 Kahatagasdigiliya 101
(20) Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa 102
 Hingurakgoda 103
(21) Badulla Bandarawela 104
 Welimada 105
 Badulla 106
 Passara 107
 Mahiyanganaya 108
 Girandurukotte 109
 Hasalaka 110
(22) Monaragala Bibile 111
 Monaragala 112
 Wellawaya 113
(23) Kegalle Kegalle 114
 Rambukkana 115
 Mawanella 116
 Ruwanwella 117
(24) Ratnapura Eheliyagoda 118
 Ratnapura 119
 Pelmadulla 120
 Balangoda 121
 Kalawana 122
 Embilipitiya 123
(25) Kilinochchi Kilinochchi 124
 Pallai 125
07–505
 District  Town  No.of the 
   Town
 District  Town  No.of the 
   Town
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.