

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 2089$29 – 2018 iema;eïn¾ 19 jeks nodod – 2018'09'19
No. 2089/29 – WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No.: CI/05. 
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, No. 21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha,
Colombo 01 of the one part and the Ceylon  Bank Employees Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on
16th January, 2018 regarding the Non Executive Grades  is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes
Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
W. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
10th September, 2018.
Collective Agreement No. 04 of 2018
COMMERCIAL BANK OF CEYLON PLC COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
NON EXECUTIVE GRADES
This Collective Agreement made and entered on this 16th January, 2018, between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, a Bank duly
registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at 21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha, (Formerly Bristol Street), Colombo 1
(hereinafter referred to as ‘the Bank’),
A1 – G28555 – 11 (09/2018)


<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
of One Part
AND
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered Office at No. 20,
Temple Road, Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union’)
of the Other Part
WHEREAS the Union made demands for re-negotiation of the Collective Agreement entered into on 31st December, 2014
between the parties hereto (Collective Agreement No. 02 of 2015) which came into effect on 1st January, 2015 and subsequent
to negotiations between the Bank and the Union, agreements has now been reached between the said two parties for the
purpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the Union and the employees, and
maintaining an efficient and productive working environment, the matters agreed upon are set out hereunder:
1. Parties to be Covered and Bound.–  This Agreement shall cover and bind Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (the
Bank), the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed on permanent monthly contracts
of employment by the Bank and who are employed in any of the categories for whom a salary scale has been prescribed in this
agreement in the First Schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Employees’), subject to the provisions of clauses 5, 6,
7(a)  hereof.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be in force from the 1st January, 2018 and shall continue
until either party terminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act as amended, but no such notice shall
be given before the 31st December, 2020. The Union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised
Collective  Agreement at any time on or after 1st April, 2020.
3. Earlier Agreements.– This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement  entered into or binding
on the parties hereto and such earlier Agreements including the said Collective Agreement entered into on 31st December,
2014 between the parties hereto (Collective Agreement No. 02 of 2015) shall stand repudiated in respect of the parties hereto.
4. Matters Covered and Bound.–
(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters
raised by the Union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclu-
sion of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement
raise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement
except to the extent agreed.
(b) It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this agreement that they shall not during the continuance
in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment
or benefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than by mutual agree-
ment.
5. Consolidated Salary.– Every Employee covered by this Agreement in service as at the  date of this Agreement
shall, from the 1st  January, 2018 be placed on the salary scale set out in the First Schedule hereto, which salary has been
consolidated at the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index in accordance with the provision stated in clause 7 (a).
6. Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Scales.–
For the placement of an employee on the salary scales applicable in the First Schedule, the following provisions shall
apply.
(i) A sum equal  to 8% of the gross salary (salary plus Cost of Living Allowance) payable to an employee as at 31st
December, 2017 shall be added to the salary of an employee as at such time and thereafter place on the correspond-
ing point on the scale applicable to such employee in the first Schedule or if there is no corresponding point in
rupee terms, on the next higher point of the said scale.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
3A
(ii) Every employee in employment as at the date of this Agreement and having served in such grade for a period of
not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 6% increase calculated on the gross salary
as at 31st December 2017 with effect from the 1st January 2019, and proportionately for service less than twelve
completed months at the rate of one-twelfth of such increase in respect of each completed month of service.
Thereafter placed on the corresponding Rupee point on the scale in the first Schedule or if there is no such
corresponding point in rupee terms, on the next higher point of the said scale.
(iii) Every employee in employment as at the date of this Agreement and having served in such grade for a period of
not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 5% increase calculated on the gross salary
as at December 2017 with effect from the  1st January 2020, and proportionately for service less than twelve
completed months at the rate of one-twelfth of such increase in respect of each completed month of service.
Thereafter placed on the corresponding Rupee point on the scale in the first Schedule or if there is no such
corresponding point in rupee terms, on the next higher point of the said scale.
7. Allowances/Payments/Reimbursements.–
(a) Cost of Living Allowance.- A cost of living allowance will be paid in accordance with the CCPI (Base year 2002)
figure that was last published in the month of June 2011 (COL figure for the month of May 2011) by the Department
of Census & Statistics. Accordingly, the Bank shall pay each employee covered and bound a sum per mensem as
detailed below for the duration of this Collective Agreement;
(a) Rs. 32,000 - with effect from 01.01.2018
(b) Rs. 34,000 - with effect from 01.01.2019
(c) Rs. 36,000 - with effect from 01.01.2020
Provided, however, in the event of the Department of Census & Statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining to
the rate of payment in relation to the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index (Base Year 2002) and the CCPI (Base Year
2006/2007) and if parties so desire to discuss on the modalities of making this payment, either party may request
for a discussion with the other party and the other party shall agree for such a discussion.
(b) Payment for Telex Operators.-
Where the Bank, as at the date of this Agreement, pays an allowance expressly as a Payment for Telex Operators,
the Bank will pay as from the date of this Agreement, Rs 25/- per day subject to a maximum of Rs 450/- per month.
(c) Payment for VDU Operators.-
The Bank will make a payment of Rs 10/- per day up to a maximum of Rs 200/- per month, only to Employees who
were in employment on 1st August 1988 and whose main or primary function is the operation of a VDU. For
puposes of this Agreement a person who regularly works not less than three (3) hours per day on a VDU will fall
within the definition of a person whose main or primary function is the operation of a VDU.
(d) Non-receipt of Two Payments.-
No employee will receive the said Payment for Telex Operators plus the Payment for VDU Operators and shall
receive only one of the said Payments.
(e) Disturbance Payment .-
An employee in the Office Assistant and Allied category who will be required to report for work at the following
times will be entitled to a Disturbance Payment as follows ;

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
Before 4.00 a.m. Rs. 700/-
Before 5.00 a.m. Rs. 600/-
Before 6.00 a.m. Rs. 550/-
Before 7.00 a.m. Rs. 350/-
Before 7.30 a.m. Rs. 250/-
An employee in the Typist and Allied Grade who will be required to report to work at the following times will be
entitled to a Disturbance Payment as follows ;
Before 5.00 a.m. Rs. 600/-
Before 6.00 a.m. Rs. 550/-
Before 7.00 a.m. Rs. 350/-
Before 7.30 a.m. Rs. 275/-
(f) Holiday  Incentive.–
Employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to receive a Holiday Incentive as follows on account of
expenses incurred on a holiday during not less than 07 consecutive days of Annual leave taken in any year.
(i) Office Assistants and Allied Grades - Rs. 20,000/- per annum.
(ii) Typists and Allied Grades - Rs. 22,000/- per annum.
8. Incremental Date .–
This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the annual incremental date of an employee.
9. Promotion to Grade II
Subject to provisions of clauses 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 hereof, an employee who completes Seven (7) years in Grade I shall
automatically be promoted to Grade II in his Category and an employee so promoted shall receive not less than the value of two (2)
increments in Grade I when placed in Grade II.
10. Accelerated Promotion
I. From  Grade I to Grade II
Employees who sit for and successfully pass the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka Examination or the Indian Institute of
Banking  and Finance will be considered for placement in Grade II, subject to the conditions referred to at (a) and (b)
hereunder, provided, however, that their past record of overall performance, attendance and conduct as assessed by the Bank
justifies such consideration.
(a) on successful completion of the examination leading to the full Associateship of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka
(Diploma in Banking and Finance/Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance) or the corresponding level of the Indian
Institute of Banking and Finance or three (3) complete years of service with the Bank, or
(b) on successful completion of the examinations leading to Intermediate in Banking and Finance/Certificate in Banking
Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the corresponding level
of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance or Four (4) complete years of service with the Bank, .
11. Promotions from Grade II to Grade III. -
The following principles shall apply to the promotion of an employee  from Grade II to III of the basic salary scales in the First
Schedule hereto.
(a) All promotions to Grade III will be after an application made by an employee to the employer. Promotion granted consequent
upon an application will be effective from the first of the month succeeding the month in which the application is made.
(b) An employee eligible to make such application will be  –

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
5A
(i) An employee who has served for minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade II, or
(ii) An employee who has successfully completed the Intermediate in Banking and Finance/Certificate in Banking and
Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance/of the  Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the corresponding level
of the Indian  Institute of Banking and Finance, or the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade I or Five (5)
years Post - Qulification experience in Grade II, whichever is lower, or
(iii) An employee who has completed all stages of the Exmination leading to the full Associateship of the Institute of Bankers
of Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and Finance/Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance), or the corresponding level of
the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade II or three (3)
years post-qualification experience in Grade II whichever is lower.
(c) Promotion to Grade III will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance and
punctuality.
(d) The Union will have the right to make representations to the Bank in respect of any particular non-promotion although such
cannot be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.
(e) On promotion to Grade III an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less than the value of
two (2) increments in Grade II.
12.Promotions from Grade III to Grade IV. -
(a) All promotions to Grade IV will be after and application made by an employee to his employer. Promotion consequent upon
an application will be effective from the first of the month succeeding the month in which the application is made.
(b) An employee eligible to make such application will be -
(i) An employee who has served for minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade III, or
(ii) An employee who has successfully completed the Intermediate in Banking and Finance/ Certificate in Banking and
Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, or the corresponding level
of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade III or five
years (5)  post-qualification experience in Grade III, whichever is lower, or
(iii) An employee who has completed all stages of the Exmination leading to the full Associateship of the Institute of Bankers
of Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and Finance /Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance), or the corresponding level of
the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance or the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade III or three (3)
years post-qualification experience in Grade III whichever is lower.
(c) Promotion to Grade IV will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance and
punctuality.
(d) The Union will have the right to make representations to the Bank in respect of any particular non-promotion although such
cannot be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.
(e) On Promotion to Grade IV an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less than the value of
two (2) increments in Grade III.
13. Promotions from Grade IV to Grade V. -
(a) All promotions to Grade V will be after an application made by an employee to his employer. Promotion consequent upon an
application will be effective from the first of the month succeeding the month in which the application is made.,
(b) An employee eligible to make such application will be-
(i) An employee who has served for a minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade IV, or
(ii) An employee who has successfully completed the Intermediate in Banking and Finance / Certificate in Banking and
Finance Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, or the corresponding level
of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the minimum period of service of seven (7) years  in Grade IV or five
(5) years post-qualification experience in Grade IV, whichever is lower, or

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
(iii) An employee who has completed all stages of the Examination leading to the full Associateship of the Institute of Bankers
of Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and finance/Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance), or the corresponding level of
the Indian Institute of Banking & Finance, or the minimum period of service of Seven (7) years in Grade IV or Three (3)
years post-qualification experience in Grade IV, whichever is lower.
(c) Promotion to Grade V  will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance and
punctuality..
(d) The Union will have the right to make representations to the Bank in respect of any particular non -promotion although such
cannot be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.
(e) On promotion to Grade V an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less than the value of
two (2) increments in Grade IV.
14. Re-designation of Typist to Junior Executive Assistant Grade.– A typist shall be considered for re-designation as
Junior Executive Assistant provided he/she possesses the following eligibility requirements:
(a) Three (3) years service and passing the Intermediate in Banking and Finance/Certificate in Banking and Finance/
Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the corresponding level
of the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance.
(b) On completion of the Final Examination of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and Finance/
Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance) or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking and
Finance.
(c) Six (6) years service and the relevant qualifications for entry as a Junior Executive Assistant.
(d) Six (6) years service without the requisite qualifications for entry as a Junior Executive Assistant but subject to
success at a written examination and IT practical test conducted by the Bank or on confirmation from the
respective Branch Manager / Head of Department that the typist concerned is suitable for re-designation and
has been performing duties of a Junior Executive Assistant for Four (4) consecutive years and the successful
completion of the practical test and interview conducted by the Bank.
Provided that where a Typist is promoted as a Junior Executive Assistant under this Clause, he/ she shall have Three
(3) years service and the required qualifications or have Six (6) years service as a Junior Executive Assistant to be considered
for promotion thereafter.
15. Promotions - Office Assistants.– Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit staff at its discretion, the
Bank will give an opportunity to the Employees in this Grade to apply for the Post of Junior Executive Assistant on an annual
basis provided they meet with the required criteria for promotions.
(a) Office Assistants to Junior Executive Assistants
(i) Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade whose record  of service, conduct and attendance has been
satisfactory, with more than Four (4) years of service with the Bank who has necessarily completed the
Intermediate  in Banking and Finance/Certificate in Banking and Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking
and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of
Banking and Finance, will be eligible to apply and will be considered for such Junior Executive Assistant
position. The selection process will include medical examinations, interviews, written tests and IT Practical
tests etc, as determined by the Bank. Vacancies will be advertised internally each year.
(ii) Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade whose record of service and conduct has been satisfactory,
with more than eight (8) years service with the Bank, shall be exempted from the minimum education
qualifications stipulated and may apply for such vacancy and will be considered in the manner specified at
(i) above.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
7A
(iii) Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade promoted in the manner specified above will be required to
serve a period of probation of twelve (12) months which may be extended by the Bank for a further period of
up to six (6) months during which, or at the end of which, the Bank may at its discretion revert such Employee
to his earlier position and salary.
(iv) Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade promoted to the Grade of Junior Executive Assistant will be
paid a salary at the commencement point of the Junior Executive Assistant salary range or otherwise
proportionately placed, subject to the Employee  receiving increases that will be not less than the value of
two (2) increments on the scale applicable to him in the Office Assistant scale.
The decision of the Bank in respect of selection for promotion shall be final and conclusive.
16. Provident Fund. -
(a) RATE OF CONTRIBUTION . -
The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund shall be :
Bank’s contribution - 12% (twelve percent)* of salary
Employee’s contribution - 8% (eight percent) of salary
* Provided however, any increase to the Employers’ contribution in terms of the EPF Act, No. 15 of 1958 as amended and any
direction in furtherance to that by the authorities shall be adopted by the Bank.
Provident Fund contribution shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof and the amount paid for that
month as Cost of Living Allowance subject to the Rules of the Provident Fund.
(b) INTEREST ON PROVIDENT FUND CONTRIBUTIONS HELD BY THE BANK.–  Where Provident Fund monies are
invested in the Bank, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid of 12 months’ fixed deposits for a sum of
Rs. 100,000/= published by the N.S.B prevailing as at the 01st January for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailing
on the 01st July for the second half of the year on the net Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.
(c)
DEFICIENCY IN BANK’S CONTRIBUTIONS TO PROVIDENT FUND TO AN EMPLOYEE NOT ENTITLED TO A
PENSION .– Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitle to a pension or
payment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entiled to the difference between the Bank’s contributions
made to the Fund during his period of service and the employer’s minimum rate of contribution he would have been entitled to,
in terms of the Employee’s Provident Fund Act and its amendments from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by the
employer on behalf of such employee. Such deficiency will be the difference between the following minimum rates of
contribution under the Act and 10% of basic salary actually contributed by the Bank up to 31st March 1992.
From 1.1.1971 to 31.12.1980 - 9% of gross salary
From 1.1.1981 onwards - 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12.1970 the employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary), which was less
than 10% of basic salary, and therefore no deficiency arises.
17. Terminal Benefits
(a)
PENSIONS.– An employee shall, upon reaching the retirement age of the Bank, i.e., 60 years or in terms of his contract of
employment at 55 years, and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank  at such time, and shall have completed not
less than ten (10) years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension
computed on the following basis :

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
(i)  Employees opting to retire at 55 years
Number of completed years of
pensionable service (subject to a
maximum of 35 years) plus 5 years
          55
(ii)  Employees opting to retire at 60 years
Number of completed years of
pensionable service (subject to a
maximum of 40 years) 
plus 5 years
60
(b) PREMATURE RETIREMENT ON MEDICAL GROUNDS /  DISABILITY.–  An employee who is found to be unable to
continue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/ disability, as certified by the Bank’s Doctor/ Medical Specialist/
Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed
not less than ten (10)  years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pension
computed on the same basis referred to at clause 17 (a) above. Provided, however, that where an employee is entitled to
compensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or An Award of Court, such employee shall only be entitled
to a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose
premature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre - acceptance of
pension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any balance compensation
under any written law.
(c) LUMP SUM GRATUITY IN LIEU OF PENSION RIGHTS.– An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in terms of
(a) or (b) above may at his discretion opt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any other
payments arising there from. The payment will be computed on the following basis :
(i) Employees opting to retire at 55 years
Number of completed years of
pensionable service (subject to a
maximum of 35 years) plus 5 years
(ii)  Employees opting to retire at 60 years
Number of completed years of
pensionable service (subject to a
maximum of 40 years) plus 5 years
The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on account of the
cessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency, if any, in the Bank’s contribution to Provident Fund to
an employee not paid a pension in terms of Clause 17.
(d) DEATH GRATUITY .– On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the
Bank, the Bank will make a compassionate payment of two (2) Months gross salary for each year of completed service
subject to a minimum of nine (9) month’s gross salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may be
determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the case of the death of an
employee who is not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a confirmed employee
provided that in the case of an employee who has not been confirmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, the
gratuity payable will be calculated as in the case of a confirmed employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last
drawn salary plus the cost of Living Allowance.
Monthly  Gross salary
payable for  the month
of Retirement
Monthly  Gross salary
payable for  the month
of Retirement
x
x
Monthly  Gross salary
payable for  the month
of Retirement
Monthly  Gross salary
payable for  the month
of Retirement
x
x

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
9A
Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents
shall be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation
under any laws in force at the time on account of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or an
Award of Court, whichever is higher. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose death occurred
in consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as provided herein shall not restrict the right of such
dependents in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due to them under any written law.
(e) Gratuity on Resignation/ Termination Prior to Retirement.–
An employee shall, upon  resignation/ termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances which
do not entitle him to the terminal benefits referred to at the aformentioned Clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) be
entitled to a gratuity computed in terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983), which shall be paid within 30
days of the cessation of employment.
The salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referred to at Clause 5 and the Cost of Living Allowance
referred to at Clause 7 (a) hereof.
Completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding absence/
leave without pay, but subject  to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 17 thereof.
(f) Commuted Pension.–
(i) At the option of the Employee at the time of retirement, 25% of the monthly pension into 120 will be paid
to employees who are entitled to a pension, who do not opt for a lump sum payment as provided for in the
agreement and who opt for such commuted pension.
(ii) Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly pension pay-
able to him during the first ten (10) years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension he would have
been entitled to at the time of retirement if he had not so commuted his pension. After the expiry of the said
ten (10) years the amount of the monthly pension so commuted will be restored and added to the monthly
pension then being paid.
(g) Alternate terminal benefit plan.–
(i) An employee who opted for the Alternate Terminal Benefit Plan under the Re-structured Pension Scheme
offered by the Bank will not be entitled to a monthly pension on reaching the agreed retirement age nor will
such employee be entitled to any statutory gratuity which is built-in to the terminal benefits lump-sum
payable under the re-structured scheme at the time of retirement/separation.
(ii) Further, as per the Re-structured Pension Scheme, in the event of early separation prior to retirement
(excluding death) an employee will be entitled to withdraw the accumulated amount in the Defined Contri-
bution Fund Account, subject to rules of the Fund on forfeiture.
(iii) However, in the event of death of an eligible employee whilst in service, the full accumulation will be
released to the nominated party/parties or legal heirs.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
18. Medical Scheme
(i) Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for non-Hospitalization Expenses.–
The Bank will reimburse :
1. Office Assistants and Allied Grades - Rs. 25,000 per annum
2. Typists and Allied Grades - Rs. 25,500 per annum
in respect of medical expenditure incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf of his spouse or unmarried
legitimate children under the age of 21 in respect of routine non-hospitalisation/non -surgical and specialist
treatment.
An employee who has a differently abled child/children is entitled to receive Rs. 60.000 per annum as medical
expenses in addition to the amount specified above, subject to the recommendation of the Medical Board and
registration with the Compensation and Benefits Unit of the Bank.
(ii) Special Non - Hospitalisation and Non - Surgical Expenditure.–
The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non - cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum as given
below per annum on account of special non - hospitalisation and non - surgical expenses covering the
following items only incurred on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family members in keeping
with existing practice of such reimbursement.
(a) Spectacles
1. Office Assistants and Allied Grades  - Rs. 20,000
2. Typists and Allied Grades - Rs. 20.000
(b) Dentures/ Nerve Filling/ Root Filling
1. Office Assistants and allied Grades - Rs. 15,000
2. Typists and allied Grades - Rs. 15,000
(c) Hearing Aids
1. Office Assistants and allied Grades - Rs. 20,000
2. Typists and allied Grades - Rs. 20,000
Subject to valid documentation as detailed in (iv) hereunder and subject to the provisions that no claim is
made in relation to any particular item more than once in three (3) years other than in respect of employees
over the age of forty (40) years who will be entitled to reimbursement on account of spectacles once in two
years. In respect of spectacles, it must be supported by a prescription from a medical eye specialist.
(iii) SURGICAL  AND  HOSPITALIZATION  EXPENDITURE .–  Employees will be reimbursed on account of
surgical and hospitalisation (whether Government or Private) expenses incurred on behalf of the Employee,
his spouse and unmarried legitimate children under twenty one (21) years of age subject to the production of
valid documentation covering every claim or expenditure, up to  the following limits per annum:
(a) Hospital or Nursing Room Charges:
Daily Limit - Rs. 12,000
Government Hospital Allowance - Rs. 4,000
The Bank will reimburse the actual room charges in the event the patient has undergone intensive care
treatment.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
11A
(b) Emergency Treatment Travel expenses (maximum) - Rs. 4,500
*The rate is Rs. 45/- per Kilometer
(c) Overall Limit for any one year
1. Office Assistants and Allied Grades - Rs. 250,000 per annum
2. Typists and Allied grades - Rs. 260,000 per annum
Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she incurs on account of full body medical
checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 20,000/- per
annum under this entitlement.
Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses his/her spouse incurs on account of full
body medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of
Rs. 20,000/- per annum under the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.
(iv) GENERAL .–
If both husband and wife are employees, and the bill exceeds the limit of one Employee, the balance to be paid
from of the spouse’s entitlement subject to a maximum of 50% of the full entitlement/available limit.
Normal child birth will be included for reimbursement under medical expenses subject to the above limits up
to two (2) times.
All medical claims mentioned above, except for Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-Hospitalisation
Expenses shall be supported by valid and relevant prescription, bills and receipts. Prescriptions or Doctor’s
bills shall be from a Registered Medical Practiitoner.
The Second Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be
effected.
19. Retirement.–
(a) The age of retirement shall be sixty (60) years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its
Employees, and on reaching the age of sixty (60), or any other age mutually agreed upon, an Employee shall
ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give
such employee any notice of such retirement.
(b) An Employee may also be retired within a period of five (5) years prior to his retirement age and be eligible for
retirement benefits if he/she has ten (10) or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the
Employee, his Union and the employer that he/she should be given such concession and subject to the
condition that the refusal by any party to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial
dispute.
20. Bonus.– Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay
to every Employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two (2) months’ salary as drawn by such Employee for the month of
December in respect of one completed year of service meaning January to December and proportionately for service less than
one (1)  year at the rate of one-twelfth (1 /12th) of such entitlement in respect of each complete month of service. However, if
an employee is terminated/resigned from services before completion of one year meaning January to December, he is not
entitled for any bonus.
The salary for this purpose shall include the Cost of Living Allowance payable for that month.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
21. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of nine (9)  months probation subject to the
right of the Bank to extend the period of probation by a period of three (3) months.
22. Release of Parent Union Office Bearers.–  An Office Bearer of the Union shall be released for Union work without
payment of any salary, allowance or any other payment of whatever nature on the following basis:
(a) The total number of Office Bearers so released shall not exceed one (1).
(b) No Employee shall be released for more than two (2) years on a single occasion during a period of six (6) years.
(c) On resumption of work by an Office Bearer who has been released for Union work, he shall receive incremental
credit for the period of his absence from work and such absence shall not affect his rights under Clause 17
hereof.
23. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councilors.–
(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two (2) Branch Union Office Bearers at any
one (1) given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Beareres to be
present at inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and Bank
Management - exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.
It is agreed that General Council Members of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.00 noon on twelve (12) days in a
year for meetings. In the case of outstation General  Council Members, they would be permitted leave for the whole day for
twelve (12) General Council Meetings in a year. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than thirty (30)
miles from Colombo.
(b) It is agreed that a days’s paid leave shall be granted on two (2) occasions per year to General Councilors to attend Parent
Union General Council meetings.
(c) It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive Committee of the
Union. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
(d) It is agreed that the Bank will release without loss of pay up to a maximum of one (1) day, once in two (2) years, all
employees in the membership of the Central Committee of the Union and the union Branch Delegates in the Bank, to attend
the National Delegates Conference of the Union provided however, that the Bank is given two (2) weeks written notice of
the Conference and not more than one (1) employee attached to any single branch/ department of the Bank is so released.
24. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches.– The Bank shall permit office bearers of the Union employed by the Bank paid leave
to visit outstation branches calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such branch, i.e., if there are X branches the total number
of days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than thirty (30) miles from Colombo.
25. Overtime.–
(a) If required by his employer an employee shall work reasonable over time which has been authorised by the employer, subject
to the provisions of any law for the time being in force.
(b) Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with the provisions of the Shop and Office Employees Act.
26 . Leave.-
(a)
ANNUAL LEAVE
(i) ENTITLEMENT.– In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) during
which and employee has been in continuous employment he/she  shall be entitled to take in the following year twenty
one (21) working days paid leave. He/she shall avail him/herself of at least seven (7) days out of the twenty one (21)
days  on successive days and shall in respect of each year avail him/herself of not less than fourteen 14 days out of the
said twenty one (21) working days.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
13A
.
(ii) At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows :
(a) The full annual holiday of twenty one (21) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st January but
before 1st April.
(b) A holiday of fifteen (15)  days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July.
(c) A holiday of eleven (11) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st October, and
(d) A holiday of six (6) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.
(iii) AVAILMENT. –
The Availment of all  Annual leave shall be by prior authorization of the Bank upon the employee’s application, giving
sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
(iv) ACCUMULATION.–
Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee at the rate of seven (7) days per annum exclusively for purposes
referred hereunder up to a maximum period of ninety (90) days:
(a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.
(b) For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill.
(c) For travel abroad for which purpose one (1) month’s prior notice shall be given.
(d) For marriage of the employee.
(e) On account of the death of a family member, provided that the employee has exhausted his current year’s leave.
(f) For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
(g) Prolonged illness of the employee.
(v) Any annual leave not utilized by an employee up to a maximum of seven (7)  days per year in excess of the number of
ninety (90) days accumulated as provided herein may be encashed by the employee on request, by the Bank at an
amount equal to one (1) day’s salary per each day unavailed of.
(vi) Provided that in the case of (iv)(b)to (f) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the Management.
(vii) Family member for purposes of (iv) (b) and (e) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.
(b) Medical Leave.–
(i) Entitlement .–
An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other
holidays in any one (1) year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii)
hereof.
(ii) Availment.–
The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not
supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(a) Where such period of absence exceeds two (2) consecutive days including weekly or other holi-
days, or
(b) Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a
Registered Medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days.
(iii) Accumulation .–
An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one (1) year as prescribed above shall be entitled
to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject to
the following provisions ;
(a) In no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation,
exceed ninety (90) days, and

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
(b) The accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness,
hospitalisation or similar circumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical
Practitioner,
(c) Where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness
such as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalization, the employer may permit him to set off
any further absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent
of the leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness.
(iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and / or
take any action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness 
not supported by
a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances :
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and / or reason
for absence of an employee, or
(b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any
weekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the
application and/or reason for absence of the employee.
(c) Casual Leave.–
An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employment
whereof 
not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not precede
or follow any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the
reason for such absence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could
not have been foreseen by such employee.
(d) Maternity Leave.–
The leave that an Employee is entitled to in this regard shall be governed as per the provisions of the
Shop and Office Employees’ Act. However, where a female employee has given birth to twins/triplets/
other multiple births upon her first confinement, she will be entitled to enhanced maternity leave of 84
working days in respect of her confinement, provided it is a live birth.
27.Suspension. –
(i) Where an employee is suspended pending a  disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to the
provisions of Sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six (6)
months and full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
(ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or misappro-
priation, the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is
not concluded within six (6) months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary
(Salary plus Cost of Living Allowance) during his suspension beyond the said six (6) months period. Provided
that if the delay beyond six (6) months is due to the employee’s own conduct or due to the employee being in
custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salary
as aforementioned will not be payable.
(iii) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from con-
cluding the inquiry within six (6) months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as
where the employee makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in police
custody or where the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half his
salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
15A
28. Disciplinary Procedure. –  Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except,
however, in the case of oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall
apply ;
(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended or not, the employee shall be furnished with a
show cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show
cause letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation
in writing to the charges preferred.
(b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the
Bank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable,
the employee may  request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation
and where such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of time
as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show
cause and the Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the
employee and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and
shall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension.
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is
not satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub - clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry
into the charges against such employee.
(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within twenty one (21)  working
days from the date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not
possible to do so for reasons beyond the Bank’s control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or
seeking, or by reason of unforeseen circumstances.
(f) The Bank will permit  a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accused
employee or an office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to
itself the right to prevent the person carrying on the defense for unacceptable conduct) to defend the
accused employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained a legal quali-
fication. The defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absence from work on this account.
The Bank will further allow another member of the Branch Union to be present at the inquiry as an Observer
without loss of salary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Bank in writing the
name of the Defending Employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the
commencement of the inquiry. The Defending Employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the
accused employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The inquiring Officer will be entitled to
require a Defending Employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw therefrom and the Defend-
ing Employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement. The absence of a Defending
Employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate
such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be
entitled to participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the inquiring Officer may
ask him.
(g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and
the accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certified and
a copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a true
copy of such proceedings before the inquiring Officer.
(h) The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution
as well.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in
writing, of the findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days
except for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such
employee shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the
employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any of the following
circumstances :
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to show cause in which
event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such employee had no cause to show.
(ii) where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
(iii) where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union’s right to request the Employer
thereafter to hold an inquiry, in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within twenty one (21) working
days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.
(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding on the Bank
and the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months from the date on which the
Bank had notified such employee of the findings or punishment, raises a dispute in respect of such findings and/ or
punishment.
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that -
(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall take effect as from
the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine ; provided further that the Bank shall not be entitled
to recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to the employee in respect of such period of
suspension, if any such payment has been made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith and shall be
paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the right of the Bank to impose
such other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole or part of the period of suspension
pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.
(n) The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held in view of the
fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other authorities for investigation
or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the employee.
29. Technology.–
(i) The Third Schedule hereto contains matters relating to new Computer Based Banking Technology agreed upon between the
parties.
(ii) The Union will be free to make representations on matters relating to the introduction of new Computer Based Banking
Technology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement and subject to sub-clause (ii) above.
(iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the Union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute on matters relating
to Computer Based Banking Technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that regard and any representations/
dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial dispute under the laws of Sri Lanka.
(iv) It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers shall be referred to the
Monitoring Committee set up under the Collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of the Monitoring Committee not
being able to satisfy the Union, such matter shall be referred to the Department of Health and Safety of the Labour
Department and the recommendation given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall be accepted by both parties and where changes
are necessary in terms of such recommendation the Monitoring Committee shall prevail on the Bank concerned to
 implement such changes.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
17A
30. Trade Union Action.–
(a) MATTERS RELATED AND COVERED IN THE AGREEMENT :
(i) The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that
during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action
including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect
of any dispute related to this Agreement. However, a dispute arising out of a failed negotiation for a fresh Collective
Agreement after 31st day of December 2020, cannot be construed interpreted and/or implied by the Employer as a
dispute related to this Agreement.
(ii) In the event there been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute arising out of a failed negotiation for a fresh collective
agreement aforesaid, and if the parent union decides to resort to any form of trade union action, the parent union shall
give at least fourteen (14) days’ notice in writing to the Bank, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylong and the
Commissioner General of Labour before the date of such trade union action. However such notice shall not be given
prior to 31st March 2021.
(b)
MATTERS NOT RELATED AND NOT COVERED IN THIS AGREEMENT :
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during the
continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action including
goslow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute
that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until –
(i) The Branch Union  has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank, at which
stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matter to the Parent Union (the
Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union).
(ii) The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted all forms of
conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/ or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to give notice in
writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute and
that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to the Bank, the Employer’s Federation of
Ceylon and to the commissioner of Labour.
31. Union Check-off Facilities.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has not less than forty
(40) per cent membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant check-off, provided, however, that
the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the Union violating any of the provi sions of this
Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
32. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement:–
(i) Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective Agreement is being
implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technology change such matter
shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting of two representatives from the Bank and
two representatives from the Union. The Bank or the Union may request that a matter be placed before the Monitoring
Committee by communication addressed to the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
(ii) Any dispute over the Interpretation of the agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbiration under section 3 of the
Industrial Disputes Act, 1950 as amended.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
33. Consequences of Termination of  Agreement:–
On the termination of this Agreement all terms conditions, benefits, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union and/or its members
shall ipso facto cease.
34. Definitions.– In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings.
Bank Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Employer Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
Cost of Living Allowance The payment in lieu of the Cost of Living Allowance stipulated in the manner set out in
Clause 7 (a) hereof.
Cost of Living Index The Cost of Living Index published monthly by the Department of Census and
Statistics.
Parent Union The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union
Branch Union The Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at Commercial Bank of
Ceylon PLC.
Dispute A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the Industrial
disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the Bank and the Branch
Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at such respective Bank.
Salary Shall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
 Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
19A


<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
21A


<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018


<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
23A


<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
SECOND  SCHEDULE
1. The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified in clause 18  of the Agreement. It
shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming eligible to be included in this Scheme.
No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.
2. ( a) Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital. Provided however,
where the employee is aged 30 years or above expenses he/ she incurs on account of full body medical checkups, without
being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 20,000/= per annum. In addition to thisentitle
ment.
(b) Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses his/her spouse incurs on account of full body medical checkups,
without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 20,000/- per annum. under the
reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.
3. The Bank must be notified promptly, and in any event not later than on the first business day following admission to hospital.
4. The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this scheme and the employee shall be
required to make declaration (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal Forms) and submit documentation required
by Bank/ Insurers in  proper form and timely manner to enable to the Bank to obtain reimbursement from the Insurance Companies.
The Bank will advise by internal circulars issued from time to time the documentary requirement and time limit within which
documents should be submitted. Where an employee does not comply, he will not be entitled to benefits under this scheme.
5. Employees shall uphold the principle of uberima fides when making declarations and submitting claims under this scheme and
any deviation would disqualify the employee from receiving any benefit under this scheme. In addition, the employee will be
liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.
6.  (a) The Bank will circulate by internal circulars published from time to time a list of Hospitals/ Nursing Homes, expenses
incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the scheme. Additions and / or deletions to this list will also be
made by internal circulars.
(b) If for reasons of geographical location any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of the Institutions given
in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of amendments to the list  referred
to in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use a named Institution  or Institutions and the Bank
shall  consider such applications on a case by case basis and, where deemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensa-
tion, provided however, that the decision of the Bank on this matter shall be final and conclusive.
Exclusions .–
 The scheme shall not cover benefits / expenses :
(a) Occasioned by or happening through,
(i) The participation by employee or other eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign Enemy, Hostilities
(whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, Mutiny or Usurped Power, Military,
Popular Rising or while serving as a member of any Defence, Police, Security Force, Home Guard etc.
(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, or any self inflicted injury/sickness.
(iii) Normal child birth or pregnancy subject to clause 18 (iv). Provided that if an Employee has been employed for a
continues period of twelve months, the Bank will pay the Medical Expenses incurred for any abnormality of Maternity
which is in excess of what a normal child birth would have cost. The responsibility for furnishing the Bank with the
required proof of the extra cost involved, such as a letter from the Doctor/ Hospital, will be on the employee who makes
the claim.
(iv) Earthquake, Volcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave
(b) Incurred whilst travelling in an Air craft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard type of civil
aircraft operated by a recognized Air Line on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type of civil aircraft having two
or more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned by a Commercial or Industrial firm and piloted
by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
25A
(c) In respect of Eye Test or Dental Treatment.
(d) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.
7. The benefits under this scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “any one Year” in clause 18 (iii) of the Agreement shall be
deemed to be the period 1 st January to 31 st December. In the case of employees who join during the course of a year the overall
limit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st December will be pro-rated to the number of full months of service up
to 31st December.
8. In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the entitlement of either
or both years as applicable.
THIRD SCHEDULE
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology by the Bank
covered and bound by this Agreement.
1. Wherever practical the Bank will endeavor to ensure that jobs are designed to include a mix of VDU/ non VDU tasks which seek
to provide variation in visual and mental demands upon the operator.
2. The work load of operators of VDUs will be regularly reviewed by Management for the purpose of ensuring proper safety and
effectiveness of the operations.
3. The Bank agrees to provide VDU operator with adequate training within the parameters of their job description to  ensure the safety
and health of employees.
4. (a) In selecting VDUs, the Bank will attempt to obtain the equipment, which will ensure the following :
(i) Screens that give clear stable images.
(ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improved maneuverability.
(iii) Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.
(b) The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the VDUs.
(c) The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, keyboards and provide facilities for placing documents and
ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees.
(d) The Bank will endeavor to provide lighting facility to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.
(e) Employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU, will be
permitted to visit, at the cost of the Bank, an Optician selected by the Bank to have his eyesight examined prior to his
commencing employment on a VDU. In the event of an adverse report being obtained from the Optician, the employee should
inform the Bank immediately.
(f) Where an employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Managment of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU,
and he is already using spectacles, when he is called upon to operate a VDU for the first time, he will be permitted, at the
expenses of the Bank, to be examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank for the purpose of obtaining an opinion as to
whether any modification is necessary to his lenses. The cost of such examination and modification to the lenses if necessary,
will be borne by the Bank on the following basis.
(i) The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the Medical  Scheme herein.
(ii) The cost of modification of the lenses will be met within the Medical  Scheme, but if such cost should exceed the limits
prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018
5. Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a Data Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain, the Bank is
agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours so long as there is no disruption
of the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.
6. The provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the
Bank, is operating a VDU. Provided however the Union will be entitled to make representations as to whether the main or primary
function is the operation of a VDU subject to there being no industrial dispute raised on this issue.
7. The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively in consequence of the
introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself of any one or more of the following
options:
(a) The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections / Departments to perform work which is within
their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such time in relation to such
employees. This option refers to a transfer other than within the scope of employment, which the Bank would under normal
circumstances be entitled to effect.
(b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the Employer consider it necessary.
(c) The Bank will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in this Agreement, with
a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and this will not amount to retrenchment within
the meaning of this schedule.
8. For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees made redundant conse-
quent upon the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. It will not include a situation where such redundant
employees voluntarily leave the service of the employer on terms mutually agreed upon.
10 - 63
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA