

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 480
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"166 – 2020 ud¾;= ui 06 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'03'06
No. 2,166 –  fRiday ,  maRch  06, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th march, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th march, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
477 - B 82014- 5,403 (03/2020)
N. B.–   (i) Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,165 of 28.02.2020 was not published.
 (ii) the list of Jurors in Kegalle district Jurisdiction area in year 2020 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala, 
tamil and English languages.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
478
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
479
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. however, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
he/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
480
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
ministry of finance, Economy and 
Policy Development 
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR 
REcRUitmENt to GRadE iii of thE SRi LaNKa 
iNLaNd REVENUE SERVicE - 2019/2020
APPLICATIONS are called from the qualified citizens 
of Sri Lanka for open competitive Examination for the 
recruitment to the Posts in Grade iii of Sri Lanka inland 
Revenue Service.
1. in this notice “Secretary” shall mean the “Secretary 
to the ministry in charge of the subject of monetary 
administration”, “Service” shall mean the “Sri Lanka inland 
Revenue Service” at the instances not specified in other way. 
2. the appointments through this examination shall be 
made to Grade iii of Sri Lanka inland Revenue Service. 
Recruitments shall be made upon the results of a Written 
Examination and a General interview. 
Date of examination .– the examination will be held in 
June 2020 in colombo by the commissioner General of 
Examination. the Secretary reserves the right to postpone or 
cancel the Examination subject to the instructions of Public 
Service commission. 
3. Number of persons to be appointed is 71. the effective 
date of appointment shall be determined on the order of the 
Public Service commission. 
4. Conditions of Service :
 4.1 a selected candidate shall be appointed to the 
Grade iii of the service on the general conditions 
governing appointments in the Public Service and 
on the terms and conditions set out in the minute 
of Sri Lanka inland Revenue Service published 
in the extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1804/50 
of 05.04.2013, and subject to any amendments 
made or to be made hereafter to the service 
minute, provisions of the Establishment code 
and financial Regulations and Public Service 
commission’s Procedural Rules published in 
the Gazette extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 
20.02.2009.
 4.2 this post is permanent and pensionable. you are 
subjected to the policy decisions taken by the 
Government in the future regarding the pension 
scheme you are entitled to. further, you shall 
contribute to the Widows’ & orphans’ Pension 
fund/Widowers’ & orphans’ Pension fund. you 
shall pay contributions to this fund as declared by 
the Government from time to time. 
 4.3 this appointment is subjected to a probation 
period of 3 years. If an officer appointed whose 
appointment has been confirmed in the public 
service or in Provincial Service, he or she shall 
be subjected to one year acting period. 1st 
Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed as 
mentioned in the service minute within 03 years 
from the date of recruitment to the Grade iii of 
Sri Lanka inland Revenue Service as mentioned 
in the Service minute. 
 4.4 Prescribed Official Language Proficiency shall 
be obtained within 05 years of joining the service 
in terms of the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 and consequent circulars. 
5. The Salary Scale.– as per the Schedule 1 of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 
monthly salary scale entitled to this post is Rs. 47,615 
-10x1,335 -8x1,630 - 17x2,170-10x 750 - Rs. 110,895 (SL-
01-2016). the payment of salary to you shall be made as per 
the Schedule ii of the above circular. 
6. Qualifications for Recruitment :
 (a) (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
  (ii) Shall have an excellent moral character,
  (iii) Shall be physically and mentally fit to 
discharge the official duties of this post any 
part of the country,
  (iv) No person ordained in any religious sect 
shall be permitted to sit for the Examination. 
  (v) No person is allowed to sit the open 
competitive Examination for more than 
two (2) sittings. (Number of sittings at 
the examinations to recruit Grade ii/ii                                                                                
of Sri Lanka inland Revenue Service 
under previous service minute will not be 
considered).

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
481
  (vi) Requisite qualifications for this examination 
shall have been completed in every aspect 
by on or before the application closing date.
 (b) Educational Qualifications :
 (a) (i) Shall have possessed a degree with first 
class or second class from a university 
recognized by the University Grant 
commission or an institution recognized 
by the University Grant commission as an 
institution for awarding degrees ; or 
  (ii) Being a Supreme court Lawyer or, 
  (iii) Being a chartered accountant. 
Note.– Effective date of the qualification in i, ii, iii 
shall be a date on or before the application 
closing date. 
(c) Age.– Shall not be less than twenty two (22) 
years of age and not have reached 28 years of 
age on the application closing date (therefore 
the eligibility of age shall be completed if only 
the birthdate of the applicant falls on or before 
06/04/1998 and or after 06/04/1992 only).
* the maximum age limit for the employees of 
Public and Provincial Service is Thirty five 
(35) years. 
7. Method of Recruitment : 
 7.1 Written examination : 
  a  written examination of three (03) question 
papers including the following subjects shall 
be held. Subjects and the minimum  marks that 
shall be obtained for each subject are as follows:
Subject Marks
Minimum 
marks that shall 
be obtained for 
a pass
1. comprehension 100 40
2. General 
intelligence
100 40
3. General 
Knowledge
100 40
7.1.1 Syllabus of the written examination : 
  Subject No. 01 - comprehension : 
 this paper shall be consist of two parts.
  Each part shall be obtained equal marks. 
 Part 1 - it shall be included with writing of 
an essay and a summary. 
 Part ii - this part shall be consisted 
with several texts that are formed to 
examine the coherence of the candidate 
regarding the language. candidates are 
instructed to express the meaning in one 
sentence or to write descriptive notes 
on the underline words or to select the 
most suitable statement from alternative 
section or to select the accurate answer 
from the answers for the given questions 
in associate of these texts. it is required to 
answer all the questions. 
 (duration 2 hours - 100 marks)
 Subject No. 02 - General intelligence - 
this paper shall be formed with purpose 
of assessing the candidate’s capacity of 
logical, interpretation and analytical skills 
and the skill of accurate presumption. 
this shall be consisted with 50 questions 
which are multiple choice question and 
short answer questions and it is required to 
answer all the questions. 
 (duration 1 hour - 100 marks)
 Subject No. 03  - General Knowledge : 
it is expected to assess the subject 
related knowledge of the candidate on 
geographical, political, economic, social 
and cultural, environmental including 
the environment of Sri Lanka and the 
contemporary important circumstances 
and the scientific and technological 
developments internationally related. it is 
required to answer all the questions. 
 (duration 2 hours - 100 marks)
 7.2 General Interview : 
 (i) the general interview shall held to 
verify whether the candidate has satisfied 
qualifications for recruitment mentioned in 
No. 06 above and whether such qualifications 
fall within the prescriptions made in the 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
482
same and verify the physical proficiency of 
the candidate. 
 (ii) the General interview will be held after the 
issuance of results of the written examination 
and no marks shall be offered here. 
 (iii) the general interview board is appointed by 
the Public Service commission. 
 (iv) candidates who secure highest marks 
according to aggregate of marks from all the 
subjects out of the candidates who secure at 
least 40% of marks or above for each subject 
shall become qualified to appear for the general 
interview. Public Service commission has 
determined to call a number of candidates 
from among the qualified candidates for the 
interview as per the order of the competency 
they received from the written examination 
and according to the precised number to be 
recruited. at the instances where the number 
of eligible candidates is not similar to the 
decided number as above only the qualified 
candidates shall be called for the general 
interview. 
 N. B.– (opportunity given to a candidate for 
appearing for the interview does not 
necessarily mean that the candidate has 
possessed qualifications to be awarded an 
appointment).
 7.3 appointment shall be made to Grade (iii) 
according to merits beginning from qualified 
candidates who have scored highest marks 
as per the total marks obtained at the written 
examination by the number of candidates 
expected to be an appointed according to the 
existing vacancies. 
 
8. Medium of the examination : 
 (a) the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English. 
 (b) a  candidate shall sit the examination in the 
language in which he passed the qualifying degree 
examination or in the official language. 
 (c) a  candidate who has passed subjects at the 
qualifying degree examination in two or more 
languages, shall sit the examination in the language 
in which he passed the majority of subject at such 
examination or in an official language. 
 (d) a  candidate with a special degree who has passed 
the principal subject in one language and the 
subsidiary subject in another language shall sit the 
examination in the language in which he passed the 
principal subject or in an official language. 
 Note :
 (i) the term “qualifying degree” in (a) and (c) above 
refers to the degree or professional qualifications 
referred to in Paragraph 6(b).
 (ii) a candidate must sit all the papers of the 
examination in one and the same language. 
 (iii) a candidate will not be permitted to change the 
language medium of the examination, indicated 
in the application. 
09. Conditions of the examination : 
 i. the application shall be in the form of specimen 
attached to the notice and should be prepared 
by the candidate himself using both sides on 
a paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" (a4). computer 
processed and type written applications could 
also be utilized for this. it should be especially 
concerned that the application forms should 
be so prepared that the headings 1.0 to 2.12 
appear on the 1st page, 3.0 to 6.0 appear on the 
2nd page and the rest on the 3rd page of the 
paper. applications that do not comply with the 
specimen, and that are not completed in every 
aspect shall be rejected without any notice. (it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application 
with the candidate). it is the responsibility of 
the applicant to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/her complies with the 
specimen indicated in the Examination Notice 
otherwise the application might be rejected. 
 ii. the completed application for the examination 
should be sent by registered post to reach the 
“commissioner-General of Examinations 
(organization and foreign Examination Branch, 
department of Examinations - Sri Lanka, P. o. 
Box, 1503, colombo” on or before 06.04.2020. 
the words “open competitive Examination for 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
483
Recruitment to Grade iii of the Sri Lanka inland 
Revenue Service, 2019/2020)” should be clearly 
indicated as the name of the examination on the 
top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
application. any application received after the 
closing date will not be accepted. it is essential 
to mention the name of examination in English 
language as well in applications prepared in both 
Sinhala and tamil mediums. 
 iii. the Examination fee is Rs. 1,200.00. it should be 
paid to any post office in the Island to be credited 
to Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of commissioner 
General of Examinations before the closing date. 
The receipt received from the post office should 
be pasted in the relevant cage of the application 
form. this fee is nonrefundable. it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the 
candidate. money orders or Stamps will not be 
accepted for Examination fees.  
 iV . Signature of the candidate in the application 
should have been attested by a principal of 
a Government School, a justice of peace, a 
commissioner of oaths, attorney at Law, 
Notary Public, Commissioned officer in the 
armed forces, an officer holding a Gazette post 
in the Police Service or an officer who is holding 
a permanent post in the public service. Signature 
of the employees of public and Provincial 
Service should be attested by the head of their 
department. 
 V . any application, which is not complete in every 
aspect, is liable to be rejected. complain about 
any loss or delay of an application on post will 
not be considered. 
 Vi. Receipt of application will not be acknowledged. 
a notice will be published in the newspaper by 
the department of Examinations as soon as 
admission cards are issued to applicants. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 
3 days of such an advertisement, steps shall be 
taken to notify the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. 
When informing, the name of the examination 
applied for, full name, address and the Nic 
number of the candidate shall be indicated. 
it would be advisable for candidate outside 
colombo to fax a letter of request along with a 
fax number of the candidate to the department 
of Examinations through the fax number 
mentioning the notification for sending a copy 
of the admission. further, it would be advisable 
to keep a copy of the application, copy of the 
receipt relevant to payment of examination fee 
and the receipt of registration of the application 
to prove any information requested by the 
department of Examinations. 
 Vii. the commissioner - General of Examinations 
shall issue admission cards to all candidates on 
the assumption that only the applicant who has 
completed the qualifications mentioned in the 
Gazette notice have applied, whose applications 
forwarded within the age limit indicated in the 
notice and forwarded the application within the 
relevant receipt having paid the due examination 
fee on or before the closing date and with the 
language medium, applicant’s signature and 
the certification of the signature (with the 
certification of the Head of the Department if 
only it is relevant) and are perfected accurately. 
a candidate who fails to produce his admission 
card shall not be permitted to sit the examination. 
Viii.  a candidate must sit the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him. Every 
candidate must get his signature attested in 
advance and hand over the admission card to the 
supervisor on the first day he presents himself 
for the examination. a set of rules to be observed 
by all candidates is published at the beginning 
of Gazette. candidates are subjected to rules 
and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the 
examination and they are liable to be subjected 
to punishment imposed by him/her for breach of 
these rules. 
Note.– the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination. 
10. Identity of Candidates.– a candidate will be required 
to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject he offers. for this purpose, 
any of the following documents shall be accepted :
 (a) National identity card,
 (b) a  valid Passport,
 (c) a valid Sri Lankan driving License.
as well the candidates should enter in to the examination 
hall without covering their face or two ears so as to confirm 
their identity. No candidate is allowed to enter in to the 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
484
examination hall who rejects to confirm their identity in that manner. further they should appear in the examination hall 
from the time they entered in and until they leave the hall after the completion of the examination without covering their face 
and two ears so as to be identified by the examination authorities. 
11. Results.– The results sheet prepared as per the merits on the total marks received by the qualified candidates 
in the examination according to the 14.1 of the Gazette notice shall be forwarded to the Public Service commission. all 
the candidates of the examination shall be informed personally on their marks or the marks shall be published on the                            
www.results.exams.gov.lk website. 
12. Penalty for furnishing false information.– if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to 
be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that a candidate has furnished information 
with knowledge that they are false, or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she shall be liable for dismissal 
from the Public Service. 
13. any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the 
instructions given by the Public Service commission. 
14. In case an inconsistency among the matters in Sinhala, Tamil and English notifications, Sinhala notification 
shall come into force. 
on the order of Public Service commission, 
 Secretary, 
 ministry of finance, Economy and Policy development. 
ministry of finance, Economy and Policy development, 
colombo 01,
08th January, 2020.
For Office use
Y%S ,xld foaYSh wdodhï fiajfha iii fY%a‚hg n|jd .ekSfï újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2019$2020
Open COmpetitive examinatiOn fOr reCruitment tO grade iii Of the Sri Lanka inLand revenue ServiCe - 2019/2020
appLiCatiOn 
1.0  medium :
2.0 Language medium of the examination : 
  Sinhala 2
  t amil 3
  English 4
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 Personal information : 
  2.1 Name in full (in English Block capitals) :–––––––.
   (eg. : hERath mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN KUmaRa GUNa WaRdaNa)
  2.2 Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
   (eg. : GUNa WaRdhaNa, h. m. S. K.)
  2.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
485
  2.4 Permanent address (in English Block capitals) (admission card will be posted to this address) :––––––––––.
   
  2.5 Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––.
  2.6 Gender :
   male  - 0 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   female - 1  
     
  2.7 civil Status : 
   Unmarried  - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   married - 2
  2.8 Ethnic Group : (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   (Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3,  muslim - 4, other - 5)
  2.9 National identity card Number :
  2.10 date of Birth :  y ear :                 month :          date :
  2.11 Age as at the date of fulfilling of qualifications :
   06.04.2020 :  y ears :  months :   days :
  2.12 telephone Number :
3.0 Educational Qualifications :
  (i) Effective date of the Degree or the Professional Qualification :–––––––––––.
  (ii) University/institution :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Registration Number :–––––––––––.
  (iv) External/internal :–––––––––––.
  (v) Degree/Professional Qualification :–––––––––––.
  (vi) Subject/Subject field :–––––––––––.
  (vii) class :–––––––––––.
  (viii) Upper/Lower :–––––––––––.
  (ix) Examination index Number  :–––––––––––.
  (x) medium sat for the examination :–––––––––––.
4.0 Officers in Public Service or Provincial Public Service :
  (i) Present Post or Service :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Grade :–––––––––––.
  (iii) date of appointment:–––––––––––.
  (iv) date of confirmation in the Post :–––––––––––.
  (v) Period of Service :–––––––––––.
5.0 Paste the cash receipt properly here :
(Paste the cash receipt securely here (it would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
486
6.0 declaration of the candidate :
i declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge and believe and that I have affixed 
the receipt No. ....... dated ........... being the payment of the examination fee. i also agree to be bound by the rules governing 
the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it 
is found that i am ineligible according to the regulations of this examination. further i agree to be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations as conducting of the Exam. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
7.0 attestation of the applicant’s signature - (para 8(d) of the Gazette Notification) :
i hereby certify that ....................... (full name) who submits this application is known to me personally, that he/
she has paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/She placed his/her signature in my 
presence on ..........................
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature. 
date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer attesting the signature :––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(to be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
8.0 Certification of the Head of the Department (only for the candidates in Public Service and Provincial Public Service) :
i recommend and forward the application of mr./mrs./miss. ....................... i would like to inform that he/she is 
employed in this ministry/department as a permanent employee and he/she has not subjected to any disciplinary punishment 
and that, if he/she is selected for this post he/she can be released from service. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the head of the department. 
date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer attesting the signature :––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(to be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
03–32 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
487
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, 
hOmE AffAIRS AND PROvINCIAL COuNCIL 
& LOCAL GOvERNmENT 
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in 
Grade  I of Grama Niladhari Service - 2019(2020)
1.0  it is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for the officers in Grade I of Grama Niladhari Service will 
be held by the commissioner - General of Examinations in 
the month of may 2020 as per the approved service minute 
of Grama Niladhari Service, and the applications are hereby 
called for the time. 
2.0 This examination for officers in Grade I of the 
Grama Niladhari Service will be held in colombo, Kandy,  
Galle, matara, Jaffna, mannar, mullaitivu, trincomalee, 
Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura 
and Killinochchi. Examination will be held only in the 
towns determined for the purpose. the list of relevant towns 
and town numbers are given in the table below. the relevant 
section of the application should be filled by referring to 
the table of towns and town numbers given below. it will 
not be allowed to change subsequently the town/ towns 
indicated. any centre mentioned above can be cancelled 
due to insufficiency of candidates and the candidates can 
be directed to a nearby centre. further, when there is no 
sufficient number of applicants applied for the examination 
to be held in all proposed towns or majority of them, the 
commissioner General of Examination will take necessary 
action to hold the examination only in colombo.
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
matara 04
Jaffna 05
mannar 06
mullaitivu 07
trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0 (i)  this examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him with regard to the 
same.
 (ii)  the rules and regulations for candidates 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notification. Candidates will be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the commissioner- 
General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
4.0 eligibility.– Officers who have been appointed to 
posts in Grade i of Grama Niladhari Service as per the 
Procedure of Recruitment effective from 29.09.2010 are 
eligible to appear for this Examination.
5.0 examination Procedure.– candidates should sit for 
a written examination, which will consist of the following 
subjects :–
Subject Subject 
No.
Marks Durations Pass 
Mark
Office systems, 
General conduct 
and discipline in 
the Public Service
1 100 1 1/2 hours 40%
Subject related 
Studies and 
Professional 
Knowledge
2 100 1 1/2 hours 40%
 5.1 Office Systems, General Conduct and Discipline 
in the Public Service :
  Office Systems :
  this paper is intended to test the candidate’s 
knowledge of office systems adopted in 
government offices and Grama Niladhari Offices 
and his/her ability of practical application of the 
knowledge. 
  General conduct and Discipline in the Public 
Service :
  the candidates’ knowledge on delegation of 
power on disciplinary matters according to the 
regulations of Public Service commission, 
termination of service, regulations with regard 
to sending on retirement and provisions in 
chapter XLVii and XLViii in V olume ii of the 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
488
Establishments code on general conduct and 
disciplinary procedures and circulars isued at 
present in relation to the above will be tested. 
  this paper consists of two parts, 
  
  Part i- a paper of multiple-choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes. (25 marks)
  Part ii- a paper consisting of 05 semi structured 
essay type questions. all 05 questions 
should be answered. duration is 1 hour. 
(75 marks)
  5.2 Subject related Studies and Professional 
Knowledge 
   The knowledge of the officers on duties entrusted 
to Grama Niladharies by various rules and 
regulations, ministries, departments, Provincial 
councils and other statutory institutions of the 
government shall be tested and further a case 
study will be given to the candidate on matters 
relevant to the subjects. 
  
  Part i- a paper of multiple-choice questions, 
duration is 30 minutes. (25 marks)
  Part ii- a paper consisting of 05 semi structured 
essay type questions. all 05 questions 
should be answered. duration is 1 hour. 
(75 marks)
  
6.0 the examination will be held only in Sinhala and 
tamil medium and candidates should answer question 
papers in the language medium in which they sat for the 
entry examination to the relevant service or in an official 
language. in case of candidates who entered the service 
without a competitive Examination, both papers should be 
answered in the language medium of their education or in 
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the 
language medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
7.0  Officers may appear separately for each subject 
and at different occasions at their discretion. however, 
they should score at least 40% of the total marks allocated 
for each subject for a pass. The final date of the year of 
holding examination on which the candidate to complete the 
examination passing all the subjects shall be treated as the 
date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination. 
8.0 the results of the examination will be issued by 
the commissioner General of Examination to me and 
action will be taken to notify the applicants the names of 
the candidates who have passed the examination through 
district Secretaries and divisional Secretaries.
9.0 the application for this examination should be 
in the form of the specimen appended to this notification 
and should be prepared by the candidate him/ her self. 
applications should be sent by the Registered post through 
divisional Secretary of their divisional Secretariat division 
to reach the Commissioner- General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations, Organization & foreign 
Examinations branch, P.O box 1503, Colombo, on or 
before 30th march 2020. the name of the examination 
should be indicated at the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the application. applications received after the 
closing date will be rejected. incomplete applications, too, 
will not be accepted.
10.0. candidates shall prove their identity to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall in 
respect of every subject they appear at the examination. 
for such purpose any of the following documents will be 
accepted.
 (i) the National identity card,
 (ii) a valid Passport,
 (iii) a valid Sri Lankan driving License.
also, the candidates should expose their identity without 
covering their face and ears when they enter into the 
examination hall. applicants who refuse to do so will not be 
allowed inside the examination hall. further, the applicants 
should remain with their face and ears uncovered till they 
leave the examination hall, enabling the examination 
authorities to identify the applicant. 
11.0 Applications.- applications should be prepared in a 
paper of  a4  size in such a manner that para Nos. 1.0 to 6.0 
appear on the first page and from 7.0 on the second page. 
The application could be typewritten but it should be filled 
in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting. 
application should strictly conform to the specimen 
appended and candidates are advised not to send more than 
one application or photocopies. applications that do not 
comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected 
properly will be rejected without notice. Please indicate the 
title of the examination appearing the specimen in English 
language as well, on both Sinhala and tamil application 
forms. it is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
489
that the application form perfected by him/herself complies 
with the specimen given in the examination notice and 
further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
completed application form.
12.0 Officers appearing for the examination for the first 
time need not pay examination fees. however, for subsequent 
sittings, Rs. 500/= for the whole examination and Rs. 250/= 
for only one subject should be paid at any Post Office/ Sub 
Post Office island-wide  to be credited to revenue head 20-03-
02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations. the 
receipt obtained in favour of the applicant should be affixed 
to the relevant cage of the application form. it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. the 
fee paid for this examination will not be refunded under any 
circumstance. it will not be allowed to transfer the fee paid 
for this examination in favour of another. 
13.0  the commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all 
candidates whose duly perfected applications have been 
received along with the receipt of the examination fees 
if any. issuance of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get 
their signature on the admission card attested in advance 
and surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
A notification will be published in newspapers as soon 
as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. if 
the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days 
of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify 
the organization and foreign Examination Branch, 
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. it would be advisable to send a request letter 
to the department of Examinations with the following ; 
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt 
kept at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of 
applicants outside colombo, letter of a fax number to which 
the admission card should be sent. it would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the letter of request. 
14.0 the heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations, enabling 
them to appear for the examination. No travelling expenses 
will be paid.
15.0 the candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination on conducting the examination. he/She is liable 
to a punishment imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination for breach of these rules and if a candidate 
is found to be ineligible in accordance with the relearn 
regulations, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at 
any stage prior to during or after the examinations. and my 
decision shall be the final, in respect of any matters related 
to this subject which in not provided for in this notification.
16.0 if it appears that there is any inconsistency or 
mismatch between language texts in this notification, which 
is published in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums, the 
notification in Sinhala medium shall prevail and thus, action 
will be taken accordingly.
 
S. hettiaraChChi,
 Secretary,
 ministry of Public administration, 
 home affairs and Provincial councils & 
 Local Government. 
ministry of Public administration, home affairs and 
 Provincial councils and Local Government,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
25th
   february, 2020.
Specimen form of Application
(For office use only)
EfficiENcy BaR EXamiNatioN  foR officERS 
iN GRadE i of GRama NiLadhaRi  
SERVicE - 2019(2020)
Town Town No.
first choice 1.
Second choice 2.
(indicate the name and the number of  the  town 
in which you wish to sit for the examination, 
in the order of your choice, as per the Para 
No .2.0 in the Gazette Notification, this is not 
allowed to be changed subsequently.)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
490
medium of examination :
Sinhala  - 2
tamil  - 3
(indicate the relevant number in the cage, this is not 
allowed to be changed subsequently)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
1.0 1.1 Name in full ( in English Block capitals):–––––.
  (eg. hERath mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN 
KUmaRa  GUNaWaRdhaNa)
 1.2 Last Name With initials at the end :––––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals) 
  (eg. GUNa WaRdhaNa, h.m.S.K.) 
 1.3 Name in full  :–––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil)
 
2.0 2.1 address to which the admission card should be 
sent  :–––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
 2.2 district and the district number to which the 
officer is attached  :–––––––––.
  (indicate as per the Schedule i) (in English Block 
capitals)
 2.3 d ivisional Secretariat and divisional Secretariat 
number to which the officer is attached :–––––––.
  (indicate as per the Schedule i) (in English Block 
capitals) :–––––––––––.
 2.4 district and the divisional Secretariat to which 
the officer is attached  :–––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––.
3.0 3.1 National identity card No. :
 3.2 Sex :-
  female  - 1
  male  - 0
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
 3.3 date of Birth :-  
  y ear : month : date :
 4.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting (Refer Para. 5.0 
of the Gazette Notification):
Index No. Subject Subject No. 
01
02
5.0 5.1 Grade :––––––––.
 5.2 Post :––––––––.
 5.3 date of appointment to the relevant Grade :–––––.
 5.4 t elephone No. :––––––––.
6.0 N.B.- the receipt of the examination fee obtained from 
the Post/ Sub Post Office in favour of the applicant 
should be affixed here firmly : 
 
  Receipt No. :–––––––––.
  Post/Sub Post Office :–––––––––.
  date :–––––––––.
  amount Rs. :–––––––––.
7.0  i declare that the above particulars are true and that i am 
eligible to appear for the examination in the language 
medium indicated above. further, i agree to be bound by 
the rules and regulations issued by the commissioner-
General of Examinations regarding this examination. 
And I affirm that, I sit for the said examination as my 
first sitting/ I have paid the relevant examination fee and 
the receipt has been affixed hereto.
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––.
 Certification of the Divisional Secretary
i certify that mr/mrs/miss .............................................. 
Grama Niladhari, who works at Grama Niladhari division 
of  ................................. in divisional Secretary’s division 
of .......................................................and
 (i) has placed his/her signature in my presence ;
 (ii) have checked the details provided above ;
 (iii) the officer is eligible to sit for this examination :
 (iv) the officer is exempted from the examination 
fee since the first sitting/the recepit of the 
prescribed examination fee is affixed here (Delete 
inapplicable words)
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––,
designation :–––––––––,
address:–––––––––,
date:–––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
491
SchEdULE i
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
colombo 1103  
 
 
 
colombo
0 1
Kolonnawa 1106
Kaduwela 1109
homagama 1112
hanwella 1115
Padukka 1118
maharagama 1121
Sri Jayawardanapura 
Kotte
1124
thimbirigasyaya 1127
dehiwala 1130
Rathmalana 1131
moratuwa 1133
Kesbewa 1136
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Negombo 1203  
 
 
 
Gampaha
0 2
Katana 1206
divulapitiya 1209
meerigama 1212
minuwangoda 1215
Wattala 1218
Ja-Ela 1221
Gampaha 1224
attanagalla 1227
dompe 1230
mahara 1233
Kelaniya 1236
Biyagama 1239
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Panadura 1303 Kalutara
0 3Bandaragama 1306
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
horana 1309
Kalutara
0 3
ingiriya 1310
Bulathsinghala 1312
madurawala 1315
millaniya 1318
Kalutara 1321
Beruwala 1324
dodangoda 1327
mathugama 1330
agalawatta 1333
Palindanuwara 1336
Walallawita 1339
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
thumpane 2103  
 
 
 
Kandy
0 4
Poojapitiya 2106
akurana 2109
Pathadumbara 2112
Panwila 2115
Ududumbara 2118
minipe 2121
medadumbara 2124
Kundasale 2127
Gangawata Korale 2130
harispattuwa 2133
hataraliyadda 2134
yatinuwara 2136
Udunuwara 2139
doluwa 2142
Pathahewaheta 2145
delthota 2148
Udapalatha 2151
Gangaihala Korale 2154
Pasbage Korale 2157

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
492
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Galewela 2203  
 
 
 
matale
0 5
dambulla 2206
Naula 2209
Pallepola 2212 
yatawatta 2215
matale 2218
ambangaga Korale 2221
Laggala Pallegama 2224
Wilgamuwa 2227
Raththota 2230
Ukuwela 2233
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Kothmale 2303  
Nuwara
Eliya
0 6
haguranketha 2306
Walapane 2309
Nuwara Eliya 2312
ambagamuwa 2315
 
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Benthota 3103  
 
 
 
Galle
0 7
Balapitiya 3106
Karandeniya 3109
Elpitiya 3112
Niyagama 3115
thawalama 3118
Neluwa 3121
Nagoda 3124
Baddegama 3127
Welivitiya divithura 3130
ambalangoda 3133
hikkaduwa 3136
Gravets 3139
Bope Poddala 3142
akmeemana 3145
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
yakkalamulla 3148
Galle
0 7
imaduwa 3151
Gonapeenuwala 3154
habaraduwa 3157
 
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Pitabeddara 3203  
matara
0 8
Kotapola 3206
Pasgoda 3209
mulatiyana 3212
athuruliya 3215
akuressa 3218
Welipitiya 3221
malimbada 3224
Kamburupitiya 3227
hakmana 3230
Kirinda Puhulwella 3233
thihagoda 3236
Weligama 3239
matara 3242
devinuwara 3245
dikwella 3248
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Sooriyawewa 3303  
 
 
 
hambanthota
0 9
Lunugamwehera 3306
thissamaharama 3309
hambanthota 3312
ambalanthota 3315
angunakolapelessa 3318
Weeraketiya 3321
Katuwana 3324
okewela 3327
Beliatta 3330
tangalle 3333
Walasmulla 3336 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
493
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Kayts (island North) 4103  
 
 
 
Jaffna
1 0
chankanei (Walikamum 
West)
4106
Sandilipay (Walikamum 
South West)
4109
thelippalei 
(Walikamum North)
4112 
Uduvil (Walikamum 
South)
4115
Kopai (Walikamum 
East)
4118
Karaweddi  
(Wadamarachchi South 
West)
4121
maruthankerny 
(Wadamarachchi East)
4124
Point Pedro 
(Wadamarachchi North)
4127
chawakachcheri 
(thenmarachchi)
4130
Nallur 4133
Jaffna 4136
Velanai (island South) 4139
delft 4142
Kareinagar 4145
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
mannar 4203  
mannar
1 1
manthai West 4206
madu 4209
Nanaddan 4212
musali 4215
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Vavuniya North 4303  
Vavuniya
1 2
Vavuniya South 4306
Vavuniya 4309
Vengalacheddikulam 4312
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
thunukkai 4403  
mullativu
1 3
manthai East 4406
Pudukuduirippu 4409
oddusudan 4412
maritimepattu 4415
Welioya 4418
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Pachchilaipalli 4503  
Kilinochchi
1 4Kandawalai 4506
Karachchi 4509
Punakari 4512
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Koralepattu North 5103  
Batticaloa
1 5
Koralepattu West
 (oddamawadi)
5106
Koralepattu
 (Valaichchenai)
5109
Eravurpattu 5112
Eravurpattu town 5115
manmunei North 5118
manmunei West 5121
Kaththankudi 5124
manmuneipattu 5127
manmunei South West 5130
Porativupattu 5133
manmunei South 5136
Koralepattu South 5139
Koralepattu central 5142
 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
494
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
dehiaththakandiya 5203  
ampara
1 6
Padiyathalawa 5206
maha oya 5209
Uhana 5212
ampara 5215
Nawindaweli 5216
Samanthurei 5218
Kalmuna-tamil 5224
Saindamarudu 5225
Karativu 5227
Nindavur 5230
addalachchena 5233
Eragama 5234
akkaraipattu 5236
alayadivembu 5239
damana 5242
thirukkovil 5245
Pothuvil 5248
Lahugala 5251
Kalmuna - muslim 5254
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Padavi Sri pura 5303  
 
 
trincomalee
1 7
Kuchchaveli 5306
Gomarankadawala 5309
morawewa 5312
town and Gravets 5315
thambalagamuwa 5318
Kanthale 5321
Kinniya 5324
muthur 5327
Seruvila 5330
Verugal/
Echchalampattuwa
5333
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Giribawa 6103  
Kurunegala
1 8
Galgamuwa 6106
Ehetuwewa 6109
ambanpola 6112
Kotawehera 6115
Rasnayakapura 6118
Nikaweratiya 6121
mahawa 6124
Polpithigama 6127
ibbagamuwa 6130
Ganewatta 6133
Wariyapola 6136
Kobeigane 6139
Bingiriya 6142
Bamunakotuwa 6149
maspotha 6151
Kurunegala 6154
mallavapitiya 6157
mawathagama 6160
Rideegama 6163
Weerambugedara 6166
Kuliyapitiya East 6169
Kuliyapitiya West 6172
Udubaddawa 6175
Pannala 6178
Narammala 6181
alawwa 6184
Polgahawela 6187
Paduwasnuwara East 6190
Paduwasnuwara 
West
6193
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Kalpitiya 6203  
Puttlam
1 9
Wanathavilluwa 6206
Karuwalagaswewa 6209
Nawagaththegama 6212

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
495
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Puttlam 6215  
 
Puttalam
1 9
mundalama 6218
mahakumbukkadawala 6221
anamaduwa 6224
Pallama 6227
arachchikattuwa 6230
chilaw 6233
madampe 6236
mahawewa 6239
Naththandiya 6242
Wennappuwa 6245
dankotuwa 6248
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Padaviya 7103  
anuradhapura
2 0
Kebithigollewa 7106
medawachchiya 7109
mahawilachchiya 7112
Nuwaragampalatha 
 central
7115
Rambewa 7118
Kahatagasdigiliya 7121
horoupathana 7124
Galenbindunuwewa 7127
mihinthale 7130
Nuwaragampalatha 
 East
7133
Nachchaduwa 7136
Nochchiyagama 7139
Rajanganaya 7142
thambuttegama 7145
thalawa 7148
thirappane 7151
Kekirawa 7154
Palugaswewa 7157
ipalogama 7160
Galnewa 7163
Palagala 7166
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
higurakgoda 7203
Polonnaruwa
2 1
medirigiriya 7206
Lankapura 7209
Welikanda 7210
dimbulagala 7212
thamankaduwa 7215
Elahera 7218
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
mahiyanganaya 8103
Badulla
2 2
Rideemaliyadda 8106
meegahakiula 8109
Kandaketiya 8112
Soranathota 8115
Passara 8118
Lunugala 8119
Badulla 8121
hali Ela 8124
Uwa Paranagama 8127
Welimada 8130
Bandarawela 8133
Ella 8136
haputhale 8139
haldummulla 8142
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Bibila 8203
monaragala
2 3
madulla 8206
medagama 8209
Siyambalanduwa 8212
monaragala 8215
Badalkumbura 8218
Buttala 8221
Wellawaya 8224

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
496
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Kataragama 8227
monaragala
2 3
thanamalwila 8230
Sewanagala 8233
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Eheliyagoda 9103  
 
 
Rathnapura
2 4
Kuruwita 9106
Kiriella 9109
Rathnapura 9112
imbulpe 9115
Balangoda 9118
opanayake 9121
Pelmadulla 9124
Elapatha 9127
ayagama 9130
Kalawana 9133
Niwithigala 9136
Kahawatta 9139
Godakawela 9142
Weligepola 9145
Embilipitiya 9148
Kolonna 9151
 
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Rambukkana 9203  
Kegalle
2 5
 
mawanella 9206
aranayake 9209
Kegalle 9212
Galigamuwa 9215
Warakapola 9218
Ruwanwella 9221
Bulathkohupitiya 9224
yatiyanthota 9227
dehiovita 9230
deraniyagala 9233
 
03–443
fIRST EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR 
SENIOR STATISTICIANS/ STATISTICIANS 
IN ThE DEPARTmENT Of CENSuS  AND 
STATISTICS - 2014 (2020)
01.  it is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for officers belonging to  the Senior  Statistician and 
Statistician post will be held in June , 2020 by the department 
of Examinations, in accordance with the Provisions of 
relevant approved scheme of  recruitment.  
02. (i)  this examination will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations and candidates are bound  
by the rules and regulations stipulated by him in 
respect of holding this examination and issuance 
of  results. the decision of the commissioner 
General of Examination will be the final decision 
with respect  of holding examination and issuing 
results.
 (ii)  a set of rules and  regulations for candidates is 
published separately in the Gazette notification. 
any candidate who violates these rules and 
regulations will be liable to  a punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations.  
03. examination Fees.– candidates can sit for the 
subjects at once or in several sittings. candidates who are 
sitting this examination for the first time need not to pay any 
examination fee. however, at consequent sittings, candidates 
are required to pay Rs.600/- for one subject and Rs.1,200/- 
for two subjects or more or for the whole examination. this 
could be paid at any post office / sub post office or any 
District / Divisional Secretariat office in the island to  be 
credited to Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations and the original receipt should be 
firmly affixed in the place specified in the application form. 
Kindly be informed that in addition to examination fees, you 
will not be charged of any extra payment. money orders or 
stamps are not accepted as examination fees and under any 
circumstances this fee will not be refunded or transferred to 
any other examination.
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of this 
receipt.)
04.  Applications .– the application should be prepared 
according to the format given at the end of this notice 
on a4 size paper. headings 01 to 04 should be entered 
on the first page and rest on the second page. Further, 
it is compulsory to indicate the title of the examination 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
497
appearing the application in English language too on both 
Sinhala and tamil application forms. application form 
can be type written but the relevant particulars should be 
entered very clearly in candidate's own handwriting . the 
applications should be forwarded to the commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizations and foreign 
Examinations Branch, department of Examinations, Post 
Box 1503, colombo, through the head of department under 
registered cover to be reached on or before 27.03.2020.  
the top left hand corner of the envelope should clearly 
mention the name of the examination as "First Efficiency 
Bar  Examination for Senior Statisticians and Statisticians 
in the department of census and Statistics - 2014(2020)". 
incomplete applications and the applications received after 
the closing date of application will be rejected without any 
notice. further, it is the responsibility of the candidate to 
make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself 
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice. 
if not application will be rejected . (it would be advisable to 
keep a copy of the completed application.)
  
05. The identity of the candidate.– all candidates should 
prove their identity for each subject they are sitting to  the 
satisfaction of the  supervisor of the examination hall. any of 
the following  documents will be accepted for this purpose,
 i. the National identity card
 ii. a  valid Passport 
 iii. Valid driving License 
the candidates should expose their identity without 
covering their face and ears when enter into the  examination 
hall. applicants who refuse to do so will not be allowed 
inside the examination hall. further, the applicants should 
remain uncovered of their face and ears till they leave the 
examination hall enabling the examination authorities to 
identify the applicant.
06. commissioner General of Examination will issue 
admission cards to the applicants who have submitted  duly 
filled applications in the correct format mentioning the 
language medium of the examination with the applicant's 
signature, certification of the signature and the certification 
of the head of department and if any examination fee to be 
paid on or before the closing date of application with the 
receipt of the payment made. A notification will be published 
in the newspapers and the official website of the Department 
of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued 
to the candidates. if the admission card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, an inquiry should be 
made from the department of  Examinations in the manner 
specified in the paper notice. In the said inquiry, the name of 
the examination applied, full name of the applicant, national 
identity card number and the address should be correctly  
mentioned. in such cases, it would be useful to keep the copy 
of the application, the copy of the receipt of  examination 
fees and the receipt of the registered post in hand to provide 
the details if requested by the department of Examinations. 
in case of applicants who live out of colombo, a letter of 
request with the above details and a fax number can be sent 
to the department of Examination in order to get a copy of 
the admission card through fax.
07. The candidate should get certified his/her signature 
on the admission card in advance and it should be  certified 
by the Head of the Department or an officer authorized to do 
so on behalf of him or Principal of Public School / Retired 
officer, Grama Niladhari officer of the Division, Justice of 
the Peace, commissioner of oaths, attorney at Law, Notary 
public, an authorized officer in Sri Lanka Armed forces 
or an officer in public sector, provincial public service 
or permanent staff officer or incumbent of a Buddhist 
temple, chief Reverend, clergy or a person in charge of 
other Religious temple. And the certified Admission card 
with your own signature should be produced to the hall 
supervisor at the first day of the examination.    
08. head of the department should grant duty leave to 
the candidates who are sitting the examination for the first 
time, to whom admission cards have been issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations enabling them to 
present themselves at the examination. travelling expenses 
will not be paid in this repsect. candidates should sit for 
the examination only at the relevant examination hall and 
candidates without admission cards will not be allowed to  
sit for the examination.
09. the examination will be conducted in the Sinhala, 
tamil and English media. the medium of examination for 
the applicants, who have joined the Public Service through 
a  competitive examination, should be the medium they 
have sat for the competitive examination. for the applicants 
who have joined the Public Service without a competitive 
examination, the medium of entry qualification for joining 
the Public Service is considered as the medium of the 
examination. the candidates are required to sit for all the 
subjects in one medium and will not be allowed to change 
the medium of examination given in her/ his application.
10. this examination will be held only in colombo.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
498
11. examination Procedure.– Examination relevant for 
the above post consists of following subjects.
Subject Duration Marks Pass 
Mark
1. administration 02 hours 100 40%
2. financial management 
in Public Sector
02 hours 100 40%
3. English 02 hours 100 40%
4. applied Statistics 03 hours 100 40%
(01) administration (Subject No.1)
Part i - administration
Part II- Organization of office and field activities 
and organizational methods 
are prepared based on following chapters of 
procedural rules of the public Service commission 
and Establishment code.
Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, Xii, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, 
XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, 
XLVii and XLViii
 • Structure of the question  paper  -:
 (a) Question paper consists of 2 parts having 
4 questions in each part
 (b) answers should be provided to only 5 
questions by selecting at least 2 questions 
from part i and ii.
 (c) Every question carries equal marks.
(02) financial management of public sector (Subject 
No.2)
        following chapters of the financial Regulations.
 i. - all sections
 ii. - all sections
 iii. - all sections
 iV . - all sections
 V . - Section 1,2,3, and 4
 Vi. - all sections
 Vii. - Section 1,2,3,4, and 6 
 • Structure of the question paper -:
 (a) Question paper consists of 6 essay questions.
 (b) answers should be provided to only 5 
questions.
 (c) Every question carries equal marks.
(03) English (Subject No.3)
 English  Grammar :
 A suitable level of Proficiency on the following 
forms of grammar in spoken and written language 
is expected from the candidate.
-  t ense and Number 
-  Sentences ( Simple/ compound / complex / 
compound complex )
-  Relative clauses
-  Reported Speech 
-  adjectives and adverbs
-  determiners
-  Prepositions 
 Writing Skills :
 the knowledge on the modern formats and styles of 
writing is tested in this area of study.
• Internal modes of Communication 
• Formal  correspondences skills
• Writing Descriptions / Explanations
• Summary writing skills 
• Report writing Skills
• Minutes of Meetings/ Agendas/ Invitations 
• Comprehension 
 Reading Skills 
 candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text; 
infer meaning and verbal/ written interpretation is 
expected.
• Reading and understanding the specific and 
general meaning of the printed text.
• Reading  and Interpretation (Verbal / Written) 
• Understanding the Cohesion and coherence of a 
passage 
•  Structure of the question paper :- 
(a) question paper contains questions related to 
the following.
 (i) Grammar
 (ii) comprehension

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
499
 (iii) V ocabulary 
 (iv) essay
(b)  all questions  should be answered.
(04) applied Statistics ( Subject No.4)
 the objective of this paper is to test the knowledge of 
the candidates on statistical tasks carried out by the 
industry, agriculture  Statstics, National accounts, 
information technology  (data Processing ), Sample 
Surveys, Population censusand demography, Price 
index and cartography divisions of department of 
census and Statistics.
• Structure of the question paper :-
(a) Question paper consists of 8 essay 
questions.
(b) answers should be provided to only 5 
questions.
11.1  the candidate should score a minimum of 40 
percent (40%) of marks or above to pass in each 
subject an should pass all the subjects in order to 
pass the efficiency bar examination. Candidates 
can complete subjects of the examination at once 
or several times.
12. issuance of an admissoion card to a candidate should 
not be regarded as an acceptance of his|/ her eligibility to sit 
for the examination. 
13. the decision of the director census and Statistics 
will be final in respect of any matter not provided in this  
Gazette notification.
14. in the event of any incosistency between the Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts in this Gazette notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail as the accurate text. 
 director General,
 department of census and Statistics.
"Sankyana mandiraya"
No. 306/71,
Polduwa Road, 
Battaramulla.
Specimen Application form
fiRSt EfficiENcy BaR EXamiNatioN foR 
SENioR StatiSticiaNS / StatiSticiaNS iN thE 
dEPaRtmENt of cENSUS aNd 
StatiSticS 2014 (2020) 
   
   
 (For office use only)
Language medium of Examination :- 
 Sinhala - 2
 t amil   - 3
 English  - 4
01.  1.1  full Name (in English Block capitals) :––––––––.
  (e.g.: hERath mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN 
KUmaRa GUNaWaRdhaNa)
      1.2  Surname Written first and initials at the end  :–––––.
  (e.g.: GUNa WaRdhaNa, h.m.S.K)
      1.3 full Name (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Service Station and address :
      2.1. Name of the Service Station :–––––––––––.
      2.2. Official Address :–––––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals) (admission card will 
be posted to this address)
03. 3.1. Sex :- 
  male    - 0
  female   - 1
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
   3.2.  National identity card No. :-  
 3.3.  date of Birth :-
        y ear : month : date :
 3.4 mobile Number :- 
04.  Subject / Subjects applied for the Efficiency Bar 
Examination :
 (please refer Paragraph 10 of the Gazette notification) 
Number Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
3.
4.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
500
05.  current Post :–––––––––––.
 5.1  Number of the appointment letter :–––––––––––.
 5.2  date of appointment  :–––––––––––.
06.  Are you sitting for the examination for the first time ? :
 6.1  If not, Value of the examination fee paid? :––––––.
 6.2  Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
 6.3  date :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt here ( Only if applicable)
(Keep the Photocopy of the receipt )
i declare that the above particulars furnished by me are 
true and correct to the best of my knowledge and that i am 
eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium 
indicated above and that i agree to abide by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination regarding the conduct of this examination and 
issuance of results.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of the Signature
i herby certify that mr./mrs./miss.....................................
who serves at my department is personally known to me and 
that he/ she signed in my presence on ................................
and that he/she has paid the examination fee with the cash 
receipt affixed.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attestator.
Name :–––––––––––.  
designation :–––––––––––. 
address  :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
  (Place the official frank)
Certification of the Head of the Department
i certify that,
 1.  The particulars furnished by the officer above have 
been checked by me, and that 
 2.  he/ she is eligible to sit for this examination.
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of department. 
 (Place the official frank)
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
03–411
fIRST EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR 
GRADE II STATISTICAL OffICERS IN ThE 
DEPARTmENT Of CENSuS AND 
STATISTICS - 2013 (2020)
01. it is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Grade II Statistical Officers belonging to 
the post of Statistical Officer in the Department of Census 
and Statistics in accordance with the provisions of relevant 
approved recruitment scheme will be held in June, 2020 by 
the department of Examinations.
02. (i)  this examination will be held by the 
commissioner  General of  Examinations and  
candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
stipulated by him in  respect  of  holding  this 
examination and issuance of results. the decision 
of the commissioner General of Examinations 
will be the final decision with respect to holding 
the examination and issuing results.
 (ii)  a   set   of   rules  and   regulations   for candidates   is  
published   separately   in  the Gazette notification. 
any candidate who violates these rules and 
regulations will be liable to any punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
03. examination Fees : candidates can sit for the whole 
examination or relevant subjects separately . candidates, 
who are sitting for this examination or part of it for the 
first time, need not pay any examination fees. however, at 
consequent sittings, candidates are required to pay Rs. 500/- 
for the whole examination  and Rs. 250/- for each subject. 
this could be paid at any post office/Sub post office or any 
district/divisional Secretariat office in the island to be 
credited to Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of commissioner 
General of Examinations. The receipt should be affixed in 
the relevant cage. and kindly be informed that in addition 
to examination fees, you will not be charged of any  extra 
payment. (it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the receipt.) money orders or stamps are not accepted  as 
examination  fees  and  under  any circumstances; this 
fee  will  not  be  refunded   or transferred to any other 
examination.
 
04. applications : application  should  be  in the  form  
of the  specimen  appended  to this  notification  and  should  
be prepared on a 'a4' size paper·using both sides  in such 
a way that headings number 01 to 05 appear on  the  first  
page  and  rest  on  the  second  page.  it  is  compulsory  

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
501
to  indicate the  title  of  the examination appearing  the  
application  in  English  language, too, on  both  Sinhala   
and  tamil application forms. application form can  be 
typewritten  but should be filled accurate ly and  legibly by  
the candidate  himself  in  his  own  handwriting. applications  
prepared ·thus  by  the candidate should be sent through the   
respective head   of department   by registered   post   to   
the "commissioner  General of  Examinations, organization  
and  foreign  Examination  Branch, Sri Lanka Examinations  
department, P.o.Box 1503, colombo" so as to reach him/
her on or before 03rd april 2020 . the top - left corner of the 
envelope containing the application should clearly bear the 
name of the examination . applications  received after the 
closing date and that  have  not  been perfected properly will 
be rejected. it would  be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
completed  application form. it is the  responsibility  of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form  perfected  
by him/ herself complies with the specimen given in the 
examination  notice, if not, application will be rejected .                  
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application.)
05. candidates are required to prove their identity for 
each subject they are sitting at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor. for this purpose, any of the 
following documents can be submitted to the supervisor :
 (i) National identity card 
 (ii) a valid passport 
 (iii) Valid driving license.
the candidates should expose their identity without 
covering their face and ears when enter into the examination 
hall. applicants who refuse to do so will not be allowed 
inside the examination hall. further, the applicants should 
remain uncovered of their face and ears till they leave the 
examination hall enabling the examination authorities to 
identify the applicant.  
06. the commissioner General of Examinations will 
be issuing admission cards with a copy of the time table 
for the examination to all candidates who have paid 
examination fee on or before the closing date of application 
and submitted duly filled applications with the affixed 
receipt of the payment made on the assumption that all 
the applicants possess required qualifications stated in the 
Gazette notification . the candidates should produce the 
admission card with the attested signature to the supervisor 
of the examination hall. any candidate who fails to produce 
his/her admission card will not be allowed to sit for the 
examination. A notification will be published in newspapers 
by the department of Examinations as soon as the admission 
cards are issued to candidates . if  the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the department of Examinations  
through  telephone  numbers  specified  in  the advertisement. 
there,the applicant's full name, address, National identity 
card number and name of the examination should be 
mentioned and it would be advisable to keep the  copy  of  
the application, photocopy of receipt of the paid examination 
fees, and the receipt of the registered letter in hand at the 
time of calling the department of Examinations. in case  of 
applicants  who  are out of colombo, a letter of request, 
furnishing a fax number can be sent to the department of 
Examination in order to get a copy of the admission card 
through fax .
06.1 the post and service station of the candidate, at 
the time he/she applies for the examination will be 
applicable for all matters relating to examination 
and any changes which occur thereafter in the post 
and service station after sending the application 
will not be considered.
06.2 the candidates should get his/her signature 
certified on the admission card in advance . 
candidate's signature in the application ·form and 
the admission card should be certified by the Head 
of the Department or any authorized officer .
06.3 the candidates should produce their admission 
card with the certified signature to the supervisor 
of the examination hall during the first day of the 
examination.
07. head of department should grant duty leave to 
candidates to whom admission cards  have    been issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations and who are 
sitting this examination for the first time enabling them to 
present themselves at the examination. travelling expenses 
will not be paid in this respect.
08. the examination will be held only in Sinhala, tamil 
and English medium . If an officer has been recruited to 
the government service through competitive examination, 
the medium of such examination or if the officer has been 
recruited to the government service without competitive 
examination, the medium of the examination which served 
as an entry qualification to be recruited for the public service 
should be selected as the medium of this examination . 
candidates are required to sit for all the subjects in one 
medium and applied medium will not  be  allowed to change 
later.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
502
09. this examination will be held only in colombo. 
10. Scheme of examination : Relevant examination of the above post consists of following subjects :
Paper Duration Total Marks Pass  Marks
1. Basic   Statistical methods 02 hours 100 40%
2. Office Administration          and  Establishment code 02 hours 100 40%
3. financial Regulations 02 hours 100 40%
Paper Syllabus
1 Basic Statistical 
methods
 data collection & Presentation, t distribution, Normal distribution, t 
hypothesis testing    theories and X2 
testing, histogram  &  frequency curve, 
central  tendency and measures of dispersions  (mode, median, mean, Variance, 
Quartiles and Standard                                                                                                                                                    deviation) Principles of Sampling techniques, Sampling 
Survey, Sampling Error, Non Sampling Error, indices, Simple co-relation, Linear 
Regression, Basic Statistical Knowledge
Paper structure
(a) the question paper consists of 4 essay type questions.
(b) all questions are answerable .
2 Office 
administration 
and  Establishment 
code
 chapters: 
11, 111, iV , V , Viii, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XiX of Establishment code and  also  
amended circulars for above  chapters  should  be followed.
Paper structure
(a) the question paper consists of 5 essay type questions.
(b) all questions are answerable .
3 financial 
Regulations
this paper will be prepared based on the following chapters of financial Regulation :
  chapter i - income and Expenditure Estimates, consolidated fund, annual 
Estimates, changing of annual Estimates (from f. R. 1 to 68)
  chapter iii - financial management and accountability, giving authority for making 
payments, approval, certifying and assigning duties for Chief Accounting Officers, 
Accounting Officers, Revenue Accounting Officers. (From F. R. 124 to 147)
Paper structure
(a) the question paper consists of 5 essay type questions.
(b) all questions are answerable . 
Note:- 
 candidates can sit for the above subjects separately.
 if a candidate fails to complete the exam successfully within the due period, his/ her next increment will  be 
subjected to differ.
11. issue of an admission card to a candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance of his/ her eligibility to sit 
for the examination .
12. candidates are bound by the rules and regulations stipulated by him in respect of holding this examination and 
issuance of results. any candidate who violates these rules and regulations will be liable to any punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations .

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
503
13. Pass marks for each subject is 40%. the department 
of Examinations will be sending a result sheet of applicants 
to director General, department of census & Statistics . 
commissioner General of Examinations will not inform 
results personally to applicants who sat for the examination. 
the applicants may complete the examination at once or at 
several sittings.
14. the decision of the director General of census and 
Statistics will be final in respect of any matter not provided 
in this Gazette notification.
15. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English texts in this Gazette notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 director General,
 department  of census & Statistics.
"Sankyana mandiraya"
No.306/71,
Polduwa Road, 
Battaramulla.
Specimen Application form
fiRSt EfficiENcy BaR EXamiNatioN foR 
GRadE ii StatiSticaL officERS iN thE 
dEPaRtmENt of cENSUS aNd 
StatiSticS 2013 (2020) 
   
   
 (For office use only)
Language medium of Examination :- 
 Sinhala - 2
 t amil   - 3
 English  - 4
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01.  1.1  full Name (in English Block capitals) :––––––––.
  (e.g.: hERath mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN 
KUmaRa GUNaWaRdhaNa)
      1.2  Write surname first and initials of other names at the 
end (in English Block capitals)  :––––––––.
  (e.g.: GUNa WaRdhaNa, h.m.S.K)
      1.3 full Name (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. 2.1. Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution :–––––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals)
  (admission cards will be posted to this address)
  
     2.2.  Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil) 
 2.3 Personal address :–––––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals)
 2.4 mobile No. :
  home telephone No. :
03.  National identity card No. :-  
04. Sex :- 
  male    - 0
  female   - 1
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05.  Subjects you appear in this Examination :
 
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
1
2
3
06.  date of Birth :-
        y ear  month date 
07.  current Post :–––––––––––.
 7.1  Post :–––––––––––.
 7.2  Number of the appointment letter :–––––––––––.
08.  8.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first  time ? 
:–––––––––––.
 8.2   If not, value of the paid cash amount ? :––––––––.
 8.3 Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
 8.4  date :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt (Only if applicable)
(it would be advisable to Keep a Photocopy
 of the receipt)

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
504
09. declaration of the applicant :
i declare that the above particulars are true and correct to 
the best of my knowledge and that i am eligible to appear 
for the examination, in the language medium indicated 
above and that the receipt of paid examination fees of                                    
Rs. ............... has been affixed here. I agree to abide by the 
rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examination regarding the conduct of this examination 
and issuing results.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
Note : the applicant should place her/his signature in the 
presence of the relevant head of department or an 
officer authorized to do so on behalf of him.
10. Attestation of the Signature
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss...................................
who serves at my Office Department is personally known to 
me and that he/ she placed his/her signature in my presence 
on  ................................ and receipt of paid examination fees 
has been affixed here.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Attesting Officer.
Name :–––––––––––.  
designation :–––––––––––. 
address  :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
  (Certify of the official rank)
11. Certification of the Head of the Department
i certify that,
 1.  The particulars furnished by the officer above have 
been checked.
 2.  he/ she is eligible to sit for the examination.
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of department 
 and official frank.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
03–412/1
SECOND EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION 
fOR GRADE I STATISTICAL OffICERS 
IN ThE DEPARTmENT Of CENSuS AND 
STATISTICS - 2014 (2020)
01. it is hereby notified that Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Grade I Statistical Officers belonging to 
the post of Statistical Officer in the Department of Census 
and Statistics  in accordance with the provisions of relevant 
approved recruitment scheme will be held in  June, 2020 by 
the department of Examinations.
02. (i)  this examination will be held by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and 
candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
stipulated by him in respect of holding this 
examination and issuance of results. the decision 
of the commissioner General of Examinations 
will be the final decision with respect to holding 
the examination and issuing of results.
 (ii) a  set of rules and regulations for candidates is 
published separately in the Gazette notification. A 
candidate who violates these rules and regulations 
will be liable to any punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
03. examination Fees : candidates can sit for relevant 
subjects of this examination once or separately twice. 
candidates, who are sitting for the whole examination or 
one subject for the first time, need not pay any examination 
fees. however, at consequent sittings, candidates are 
required to pay Rs. 500/- for the whole examination and Rs. 
250/- for each subject. this should be paid at any Post/ Sub 
Post Office or any District/Divisional Secretariat office in 
the island to be credited to Revenue head 20- 03-02-13 of 
commissioner General of Examinations. the receipt should 
be affixed in the relevant cage. And kindly be informed that 
in addition to examination fees, you will not be charged 
of any extra  payment. (it would be advisable to keep a 
photo copy of the receipt). money orders or stamps are not 
accepted as examination fees and under any circumstances 
and this fee will not be refunded or transferred  to any other 
examination.  
04. Application : application should be in the form of 
the specimen appended to this notification and should be 
prepared on a 'a4' size paper using both sides in such a way 
that headings number 01to 05 appear on the first page and 
the rest on the second page. it is compulsory to indicate the 
title of the examination appearing the application in English 
language, too, on both Sinhala and tamil application 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
505
forms. application form can be typewritten but should be 
filled accurately and legibly by the candidate himself in 
his own handwriting. applications prepared thus by the 
candidate should be sent  through the respective head 
of department by registered post to the "commissioner 
General of Examinations, organization (institutional and 
foreign Examination) Branch, Sri Lanka Examinations 
department, P.o.Box 1503, colombo" so as to reach on or 
before 03rd april, 2020. the top - left corner of the envelope 
containing the application should clearly bear the name of 
the examination. applications received after the closing date 
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected. 
it is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the 
application form perfected by him/ herself complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice, if not, application 
will be rejected. (it would be advisable to keep a photo copy 
of the completed application form)
05. candidates are required to prove their identity for 
each subject they are sitting at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor. for this purpose, any of the 
following documents can  be submitted to the supervisor .
 (i) National identity card,
 (ii) a valid Passport,
 (iii) Valid driving license.
the candidates should expose their identity without  
covering their face  and ears when  enter into the examination 
hall. applicants who refuse to do so will not be allowed 
inside the examination hall . further, the applicants should 
remain uncovered of their face and ears till they leave the 
examination hall enabling the examination authorities to 
identify the applicant.
06. the commissioner General of Examinations 
will be issuing admission cards with a copy of   the time 
table for the examination to all candidates who have paid 
examination fee on or before the closing date of application  
and submitted duly filled applications with the  affixed  
receipt of the  payment made on the assumption that all 
the applicants possess required qualifications stated in the 
Gazette notification. The candidates should produce the 
admission card with the attested signature  to the supervisor  
of the examination  hall . any candidate who  fails to 
produce his/her admission  card will not  be allowed  to sit  
for the  examination.  A  notification  will  be published  
in newspapers  by the department  of  Examinations  as  
soon  as  the  admission  cards  are  issued  to  candidates. 
if  the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days 
of such advertisement, steps should be taken to   notify   the   
department   of   Examinations   through   telephone   numbers   
specified   in   the advertisement . there,the applicant's full 
name, address, National identity card number and name of  
the  examination  should  be  mentioned  and  it  would  be  
advisable  to  keep  the  copy  of  the application,  photocopy  
of receipt of the  paid examination fees,  and the  receipt  
of the  registered letter in hand at the time of calling the 
department of Examinations . in case of applicants who are 
in out of colombo, a  letter of request, furnishing  a fax  
number can be sent to the  department of Examination in 
order to get a copy of the admission card through fax.
06.1 the post and service station of the candidate, 
at the time he/she applies for the examinat ion 
will be applicable for all matters related to 
examination and any changes which occur 
thereafter  in  the post and se'rvice station after 
sending the application will not be considered.
06.2 candidate 's signature  in the  admission  card 
should  be certified. and candidate's  signature  
in the application and the admission  card should 
also be certified  by the Head of the department  
or any authorized officer.
06.3 on the examination date the admission card with 
the attested signature should be produced to the 
supervisor of the examination hall. any candidate 
who fails to produce his/her admission card will 
not be allowed to sit for the examination.
07. head of department should grant duty leave to 
candidates to whom admission cards have been issued by 
the commissioner General of Examinations and who are 
sitting the examination for the first time enabling them to 
present themselves at the examination. travelling expenses 
will not be paid in this respect.
08.1 the examination will be held only in Sinhala, 
tamil and English medium. If an officer has been 
recruited to the Government service through 
competitive examination, the medium of such 
examination or if an officer has been recruited 
to Government service without competitive 
examination, the medium of the examination 
which served as an entry qualificat ion, to be 
recruited for public service should be selected as 
the medium of this examination . candidates are 
required to sit for all the subjects in one medium 
and applied medium will not be allowed to change 
later.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
506
08.2 Pass marks for each subject is 40%. the Examination department will be sending a result sheet of applicants to 
director General, department of census & Statistics. commissioner General of Examinations will not inform 
results personally to applicants who sat for the examination. the applicants may complete the examination at once 
or at several sittings.
09. this examination will be held only in colombo.
10. Scheme of examination :
         Relevant examination of the above posts consists of following subjects.
Subject Duration Total Pass marks
l. Office administration         and Establishment      code 02 hours 100 40%
2. financial  Regulations 02 hours 100 40%
Paper Syllabus
1 Office 
administration 
and 
Establishment 
code
chapters: XV , XVi, XXiii, XXiV , XXV , XXVii, XXViii, XXX, 
XXXiii,  XLVii, XLViii of Establishment code and the revised circulars of 
above chapters, also should be taken into consideration.
Paper structure
(a) total number of questions is 5. Question 1 consists of 10 structured short 
questions. Rest of the 4 are essay type questions.
(b) all questions are answerable.
2 financial  
Regulation
this paper will be prepared based on the following chapters of financial 
Regulations.
(a) chapter Vi- custody of Public money, imprest and Bank accounts, 
safety of Public finance, Board of survey, over draft, Bank accounts
( from fR 315 to 396)
(b) Procurement Guide Lines 2006 - Procurement process and all revisions 
under goods and work should be taken into consideration.
Paper structure
(a) total number of questions is 5. Question 1 consists of 10 structured short 
questions. Rest of the 4 are essay type questions.
(b) all questions are answerable .
Note: -
  candidates can sit for the above subjects separately.
  if a candidate fails to complete the exam successfully within the due period, his/her next increment  will  be subjected to differ.
11. issuance of an admission card to a candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance of his/ her eligibility to sit for 
the  examination.
12. candidates are bound by the rules and regulations stipulated by him in respect of holding this examination and 
issuance of results. a candidate who violates these rules and regulations will be liable to any punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
13. The decision of the Director General of Census and Statistics will be final in respect of any matter not provided in 
this Gazette notification.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
507
14. in the e vent of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts in this Gazette notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
 director General,
 department  of census & Statistics.
“Sankyana mandiraya”
No.306/71,
Polduwa Road, 
Battaramulla.
Specimen Application form
SEcoNd EfficiENcy BaR EXamiNatioN 
foR GRadE i StatiSticaL officERS iN thE 
dEPaRtmENt of cENSUS aNd 
StatiSticS - 2014 (2020) 
   
   
 (For office use only)
Language medium of Examination :- 
 Sinhala - 2
 t amil   - 3
 English  - 4
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1  full Name (in English Block capitals) :––––––––.
  (e.g.: hERath mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN 
KUmaRa GUNaWaRdhaNa)
      1.2  Write surname first and initials of other names at the 
end  :––––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals)
  (e.g.: GUNa WaRdhaNa, h.m.S.K)
      1.3 full Name (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. 2.1. Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution :–––––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals)
  (admission cards will be posted to this address)  
     2.2.  Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil) 
 2.3 Personal address :–––––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals)
 2.4 mobile No. :
  home telephone No. :
03.  National identity card No. :-  
04. Sex :- 
  male    - 0
  female   - 1
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05.  Subject/Subjects that you appear in this Examination :
 
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
06.  date of Birth :-
        y ear  month date 
07.  current Post :–––––––––––.
 7.1  Post :–––––––––––.
 7.2  Number of the appointment letter :–––––––––––.
08.  8.1 Are you sitting for the examination for the first  
time ? :–––––––––––.
 8.2   if not, Value of the paid cash amount :–––––––––.
 8.3 Recipt No. :–––––––––––.
 8.4  date :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt (Only if applicable)
(it would be advisable to Keep a Photocopy of the reciept)
09. declaration of the applicant :
i declare that the above particulars are true and correct to 
the best of my knowledge and that i am eligible to appear 
for the examination, in the language medium indicated 
above and that the receipt of paid examination fees of                                                                                                                    
Rs. .................... has been affixed here. Further, I agree 
to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the 

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
508
commissioner General of Examination regarding the 
conduct of this examination and issuing of results.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Note : the applicant should place her/his signature in the 
presence of the relevant head of department or an 
officer authorized to do so on behalf of him.
10. Attestation of the Signature
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss..............................
who sarves at my department is personally known to me 
and that he/ she placed his/her signature in my presence on 
................................and receipt of paid examination fees has 
been affixed here.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Attesting Officer.
Name :–––––––––––.  
designation :–––––––––––. 
address  :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
  (Certify by the official rank)
11. Certification of the Head of the Department
i certify that,
 1.  The particulars furnished by the above officer have 
been checked.
 2.  he/ she is eligible to sit for the examination.
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of department 
 and official stamp.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
03 – 412/2
––––––––––––––––––
class iii of Grama Niladhari Service will be held by the 
department of Examinations Sri Lanka, in the month of 
may in 2019 as per the approved recruitment procedure of 
Grama Niladhari Service, and the applications are called for 
the Examination.
2.0 This examination for officers in Class III of the Grama 
Niladharis Service will be held only in colombo, Kandy,  
Galle, matara, Jaffna, mannar, mullaitivu, trincomalee, 
Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura 
and Killinochc hi. Numbers relevant to each town is 
indicated in the below table. Examination will be held only 
in the towns determined for the purpose. the list of relevant 
towns and town numbers are given below. the relevant 
section of the application should be filled by referring to 
the table of towns and town numbers given below. it will 
not be allowed to change subsequently the town/ towns 
indicated. any centre mentioned above can be canceled 
due to insufficiency of candidates and the candidates can 
be directed to a nearby centre. further, when there is no 
sufficient number of applicants applied for the examination 
to be held in all proposed towns or majority of them, the 
commissioner General of Examination will take necessary 
action to hold the examination only in colombo.
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
matara 04
Jaffna 05
mannar 06
mullaitivu 07
trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0 (i)  this examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him with regard to the 
same.
 (ii)  the rules and regulations for candidates have been 
separately printed in the Gazette Notification. 
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, hOmE 
AffAIRS AND PROvINCIAL COuNCILS  AND 
LOCAL GOvERNmENT 
Written Examination to Test Computer Literacy and 
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class III of 
Grama Niladhari Service - 2019(II)(2020)
1.0 i is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
and a written test in computer skills for the officers in 

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
509
candidates will be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by the commissioner- General of 
Examinations for violation of these rules and 
regulations.
4.0 eligibility.– Officers who have been recruited to 
Grade iii of Grama Niladhari Service as per the Procedure 
of Recruitment effective from 29.09.2010 are eligible to 
appear for this Examination.
5.0 examination Procedure.– candidates should sit for 
a written examination, which will consist of the following 
subjects :–
 
Subject Subject 
No.
Marks Durations
1. Office systems and 
accounts 01 100 2 hours
2. Subject Related   
Professional 
Knowledge
02 100 2 hours
3. computer test 03 100 1 1/2 hours
 5.1 Office Systems, and Accounts (Subject No. 01)
 Office Systems
 it is intended to test the candidate’s ability to 
apply the basic knowledge on office systems used 
in Grama Niladhari office and other government 
offices, ability to understand official letters 
and documents properly and to present his/ her 
opinions/ observations through brief notes and the 
ability to draft a report on subject related matters. 
 Accounts
 it is intended to test the candidates of their 
knowledge on basic accounts and accounts systems 
used in the duties related to Grama Niladhari 
Service and other government offices, functions 
of cash control accounts and procurement 
procedures.
Part i- consists of a short answer test. Questions 
should be answered in the paper itself. 
Should answer all questions (25 marks)
Part ii- a paper consisting of 03 structured essay 
type questions. all 03 questions should 
be answered. (75 marks)
 5.2 Subject related professional Knowledge (Subject 
No. 02)
  this paper is designed to test knowledge of Grama 
Niladhari on the duties entrusted to him by various 
acts and regulations, ministries, departments 
provincial councils and other statutory institutions 
of the government.
  
Part i - consists of a short answer test. Questions 
should be answered in the paper itself. 
Should answer all questions (25 marks)
Part ii-  a  paper consisting of 03 structured essay 
type questions. all  03 questions should 
be answered. (75 marks)
 5.3 Computer Test (Subject No. 03)
   the objective of this is to test whether the 
candidates is having following skills.
 Basic concepts of information technology  
 Windows operating System
 folder management
Word Processing file management
 Basic skills, screen familiarization, 
editing texts, aligning text, fonts and 
attributes, indenting paragraphs, change 
of line spacing, Tab setting, finding and 
replacing text,  spelling and grammar, 
thesaurus, working with columns, page 
setup, printing  documents, creating 
tables. Sorting texts, file  management, 
mail merging, working with macros
Spreadsheets  Basic skills, formatting, editing, 
columns and ranges, insertion and 
deletion, sorting data, creating charts, 
printing, @ function, working  with 
macros, file management
data Base introduction, Basic skills, designing 
data base and use
 formats,
 Queries, pop up forms,
 dialog and message boxes
 Sorting
 obtaining reports
 Use of macro

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
510
Presentation/  Basic Skills, editing, formatting
illustrations applying designs, inserting images,
 clip art and Graphs
 Slide transition and effects,
 animations
 Using Presentation tools
 Preparing masters, Printing slides and 
notes.
 
internet introduction to internet, world wide web, 
how to navigate, Practical internet
 
Email introduction, basic skills, receiving 
mail,  sending mail, responding to mails, 
working with attachments, creating and 
using nicknames, composing messages,
this paper consists of two parts.
Part i - 40 multiple choice Questions/ short answer 
questions. time 45 minutes  (40 marks)
Part ii - 05 Semi Structured questions. time 45 
minutes (60 marks)
Note.- Officers those who have obtained computer 
operating license awarded by National apprentice 
and industrial training authority and those who 
have obtained certificates (of which the recognition 
is equivalent or higher to computer operating 
license) on theory and practical knowledge of 
computer technology issued by the institutions 
recognized by tertiary Education and V ocational 
Education commission as per para 08 of annex 2 
of Recruitment Procedure for Grama Niladharies 
dated 29.09.2010 shall be exempted from the 
requirement of passing this computer test. further, 
officers who have obtained the certificate of 
computer application assistant (NVQ - Level 
3) offered by National apprentice and industrial 
training authority shall also be exempted from the 
written test. 
In addition to the above courses, officers who have studied 
computer Science/information technology as a main 
subject for a computer Science/information technology 
degree or degree obtained from a University recognized by 
the University Grants commission will be exempted from 
the Computer Test of the Grama Niladhari First Efficiency 
Bar Examination. 
6.0 the examination will be held in Sinhala and 
tamil medium and candidates should answer question 
papers in the language medium in which they sat for the 
entry examination to the relevant service or in an official 
language. in case of candidates who entered the service 
without a competitive Examination, both papers should be 
answered in the language medium of their education or in 
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the 
language medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
7.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject and at 
different occasions at their discretion. however, they should 
score at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each 
subject for a pass. the date on which the examination held 
for the candidate to complete all the subjects shall be treated 
as the date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
8.0 the results of the examination will be issued by 
the commissioner General of Examination to me and 
action will be taken to notify the applicants the names of 
the candidates who have passed the examination through 
district Secretaries and divisional Secretaries.
9.0 the application for this examination should be 
in the form of the specimen appended to this notification 
and should be prepared by the candidate him/ her self. 
applications should be sent by the Registered post through 
divisional Secretariat of their division Secretariat division 
to reach the Commissioner- General of Examinations, 
Organization (Establishment & foreign Examinations) 
branch, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P.O 
box 1503, Colombo, on or before 30th march 2020. the 
name of the examination should be indicated at the top left 
hand corner of the envelope containing the application. 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected. 
incomplete applications, too, will not be accepted.
10.0 candidates shall prove their identity to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall in 
respect of every subject they appear at the examination. 
for such purpose any of the following documents will be 
accpeted :
 (i) the National identity card,
 (ii) a valid Passport,
 (iii) a valid Sri Lankan driving License.

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
511
also, the candidates should expose their identity without 
covering their face and ears when they enter into the 
examination hall. applicants who refuse to do so, will not be 
allowed inside the examination hall. further, the applicants 
should remain with their face and ears uncovered till they 
leave the examination hall, enabling the examination 
authorities to identify the applicant. 
11.0 Applications.- applications should be prepared in a 
paper of  a4  size using both sides of the paper in such a manner 
that Title Nos. 1.0 to 4.0 appears on the first page and 5.0 to 
7.0 on the second page. the application could be typewritten 
but it should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s 
own handwriting. application should strictly conform to the 
specimen appended and candidates are advised not to send 
more than one application or photocopies. applications that 
do not comply with the specimen and that have not been 
perfected properly will be rejected without notice. Please 
indicate the title of the examination appearing the specimen 
in English language as well, on both Sinhala and tamil 
application forms. it is the responsibility of the candidate 
to make sure that the application form perfected by him/her 
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice 
and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
completed application form.
12.0 Officers appearing for the examination for the first 
time need not pay examination fees. however, for subsequent 
sittings, Rs. 500/= for the whole examination or two (02) 
subjects and Rs. 250/= for only one subject should be paid 
at any Post/ Sub Post Office island-wide or to a District/
divisional Secretariat to be credited to revenue head 20-03-
02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations. the 
receipt obtained in favor of the applicant should be affixed 
to the relevant cage of the applications form. it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. it will 
not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination 
in favor of another. further, no stamps or money orders for 
the examination fee will be accepted.
13.0 on the presumption that only the candidates 
who fulfill the qualifications specified under the Gazette 
notification have applied, the Commissioner- General 
of Examinations will issue copies of the time table and 
admission cards to all candidates whose applications have 
been received. issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled 
the qualifications to sit the examination. candidates should 
get their signature on the admission card attested in advance 
and surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
candidates without such admission card will not be allowed 
to sit the examination. A notification will be published by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in newspapers and 
in the departmental official website as soon as the admission 
cards are issued to the candidates. “if there is any candidate 
who is yet to receive the admission card even after two or 
three days of such notification”, it should be inquired from the 
organizations (Establishment and foreign Examinations) 
Branch, department of Examinations of Sri Lanka as 
stipulated in the advertisement. When such an inquiry is 
made name of the examination applied for, full name of the 
applicant, National identity card No. and address should be 
clearly mentioned. in case of applicants outside colombo, 
it will be more effective to send a letter of request to the 
fax number mentioned in the said advertisement furnishing 
a fax number to which the admission card should be sent. 
it would be advisable to keep a copy of the application 
form kept at applicant’s possession, copy of the receipt of 
examination fees and the receipt of registering the letter, in 
order to prove certain matters inquired by the department of 
Examinations.
13.1 candidate’s signature in the admission card should 
have been attested by the head of Establishment 
or an officer delegated by him. A candidate shall 
appear for the examination under the assigned 
index number at the relevant examination hall. 
14.0 the heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations, enabling 
them to appear for the examination. No travelling expenses 
will be paid.
15.0 the candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations on the conduct of the examination imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examination. the candidates 
are liable to be subjected to any punishments imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and my decision 
shall be the final, in respect of any matter not provided for 
in this notification.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
512
16.0 in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
 S. hettiaraChChi,
 Secretary,
 ministry of Public administration, 
 home affairs and 
 Provincial councils and Local Government. 
ministry of Public administration, home affairs and 
 Provincial councils and Local Government,
independence Square,
colombo-07,
on 25th february, 2020.
Specimen form of Application
(For office use only)
EfficiENcy BaR EXamiNatioN  aNd WRittEN 
EXamiNatioN to tESt comPUtER LitERacy 
foR officERS iN cLaSS iii of GRama 
NiLadhaRi  SERVicE - 2019 (ii) (2020)
Town Town No.
first choice 1.
Second choice 2.
( indicate the name and the number of the town 
in which you wish to sit for the examination, 
in the order of your choice, as per the Para 
No .2.0 in the Gazette Notification)
medium of examination :
Sinhala  - 2
tamil  - 3
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(this cannot be changed subsequently)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
1.0 1.1 Name in full ( in English Block capitals):–––––.
  (eg. hERath mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN 
KUma  GUNaWaRdhaNa)
 1.2 Last Name With initials at the end :––––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals) 
  (eg. GUNa WaRdhaNa, h.m.S.K.) 
 1.3 Name in full  :–––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil)
 
2.0 2.1 address to which the admission card should be 
sent  :–––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
 2.2 district and the district number to which the 
officer is attached  :–––––––––.
  (indicate as per the Schedule i) (in English Block 
capitals)
 2.3 d ivisional Secretariat and divisional Secretariat 
number to which the officer is attached                       
:––––––––––. 
  (indicate as per the Schedule i) (in English Block 
capitals) :–––––––––––.
 2.4 district and the divisional Secretariat to which 
the officer is attached  :–––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––.
3.0 3.1 National identity card No. :
 3.2 Sex :-
  female  - 1
  male  - 0
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
 3.3 date of Birth :-  
  y ear : month : date :
 3.4 t elephone No. : 
4.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting (Refer Para. 5.0 of 
the Gazette Notification):
Index No. Subject Subject No. 
01
02
03

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
513
5.0 5.1 Grade :––––––––.
 5.2 Post :––––––––.
 5.3 date of appointment to the relevant Grade :––––.
6.0 N.B.– the receipt of the examination fee obtained from 
the Post/ Sub Post Office in favour of the applicant 
should be affixed here firmly : 
 
  Receipt No. :–––––––––.
  Post/Sub Post Office :–––––––––.
  date :–––––––––.
  amount Rs. :–––––––––.
7.0  i declare that the above particulars are true and that i am 
eligible to appear for the examination in the language 
medium indicated above. further, i agree to be bound by 
the rules and regulations issued by the commissioner-
General of Examinations regarding this examination. 
And I affirm that, I sit for the said examination as my 
first sitting/ I have paid the relevant examination fee and 
the receipt has been affixed hereto.
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––.
 Certification of the Divisional Secretary
i certify that mr/mrs/miss ..............................................
. Grama Niladhari, who works at Grama Niladhari division 
of  ................................. in divisional Secretary’s division 
of .......................................................and
 (i) has placed his/her signature in my presence ;
 (ii) have checked the details provided above ;
 (iii) the officer is eligible to sit for this examination :
 (iv) the officer is exempted from the examination 
fee since the first sitting/the recepit of the 
prescribed examination fee is affixed here (Delete 
inapplicable words)
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––,
designation :–––––––––,
address:–––––––––,
date:–––––––––.
SchEdULE i
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
colombo 1103  
 
 
 
colombo
0 1
Kolonnawa 1106
Kaduwela 1109
homagama 1112
hanwella 1115
Padukka 1118
maharagama 1121
Sri Jayawardanapura 
Kotte
1124
thimbirigasyaya 1127
dehiwala 1130
Rathmalana 1131
moratuwa 1133
Kesbewa 1136
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Negombo 1203  
 
 
 
Gampaha
0 2
Katana 1206
divulapitiya 1209
meerigama 1212
minuwangoda 1215
Wattala 1218
Ja-Ela 1221
Gampaha 1224
attanagalla 1227
dompe 1230
mahara 1233
Kelaniya 1236
Biyagama 1239
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Panadura 1303 Kalutara
0 3Bandaragama 1306

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
514
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
horana 1309
Kalutara
0 3
ingiriya 1310
Bulathsinghela 1312
madurawala 1315
millaniya 1318
Kalutara 1321
Beruwala 1324
dodangoda 1327
mathugama 1330
agalawatta 1333
Palindanuwara 1336
Walallawita 1339
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
thumpane 2103  
 
 
 
Kandy
0 4
Poojapitiya 2106
akurana 2109
Pathadumbara 2112
Panwila 2115
Ududumbara 2118
minipe 2121
medadumbara 2124
Kundasale 2127
Gangawata Korale 2130
harispattuwa 2133
hataraliyadda 2134
yatinuwara 2136
Udunuwara 2139
doluwa 2142
Pathahewaheta 2145
delthota 2148
Udapalatha 2151
Gangaihala Korale 2154
Pasbage Korale 2157
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Galewela 2203  
 
 
 
matale
0 5
dambulla 2206
Naula 2209
Pallepola 2212 
yatawatta 2215
matale 2218
ambangaga Korale 2221
Laggala Pallegama 2224
Wilgamuwa 2227
Raththota 2230
Ukuwela 2233
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Kothmale 2303  
Nuwara
Eliya
0 6
haguranketha 2306
Walapane 2309
Nuwara Eliya 2312
ambagamuwa 2315
 
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Benthota 3103  
 
 
 
Galle
0 7
Balapitiya 3106
Karandeniya 3109
Elpitiya 3112
Niyagama 3115
thawalama 3118
Neluwa 3121
Nagoda 3124
Baddegama 3127
Welivitiya divithura 3130
ambalangoda 3133
hikkaduwa 3136
Gravets 3139
Bope Poddala 3142
akmeemana 3145

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
515
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
yakkalamulla 3148
Galle
0 7
imaduwa 3151
Gonapeenuwala 3154
habaraduwa 3157
 
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Pitabeddara 3203  
matara
0 8
Kotapola 3206
Pasgoda 3209
mulatiyana 3212
athuruliya 3215
akuressa 3218
Welipitiya 3221
malimbada 3224
Kamburupitiya 3227
hakmana 3230
Kirinda Puhulwella 3233
thihagoda 3236
Weligama 3239
matara 3242
devinuwara 3245
dikwella 3248
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Sooriyawewa 3303  
 
 
 
hambantota
0 9
Lunugamwehera 3306
thissamaharama 3309
hambanthota 3312
ambalanthota 3315
angunakolapelessa 3318
Weeraketiya 3321
Katuwana 3324
okewela 3327
Beliatta 3330
tangalle 3333
Walasmulla 3336 
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Kayts (island North) 4103  
 
 
 
Jaffna
1 0
chankanei (Walikamum 
West)
4106
Sandilipay (Walikamum 
South West)
4109
thelippalei 
(Walikamum North)
4112 
Uduvil (Walikamum 
South)
4115
Kopai (Walikamum 
East)
4118
Karaweddi  
(Wadamarachchi South 
West)
4121
maruthankerny 
(Wadamarachchi East)
4124
Point Pedro 
(Wadamarachchi North)
4127
chawakachcheri 
(thenmarachchi)
4130
Nallur 4133
Jaffna 4136
Velanai (island South) 4139
delft 4142
Kareinagar 4145
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
mannar 4203  
mannar
1 1
manthai West 4206
madu 4209
Nanaddan 4212
musali 4215
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Vavuniya North 4303  
Vavuniya
1 2
Vavuniya South 4306
Vavuniya 4309
Vengalacheddikulam 4312

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
516
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
thunukkai 4403  
mullativu
1 3
manthai East 4406
Pudukuduirippu 4409
oddusudan 4412
maritimepattu 4415
Welioya 4418
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Pachchilaipalli 4503  
Kilinochchi
1 4Kandawalai 4506
Karachchi 4509
Punakari 4512
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Koralepattu North 5103  
Batticaloa
1 5
Koralepattu West
 (oddamawadi)
5106
Koralepattu
 (Valaichchenai)
5109
Eravurpattu 5112
Eravurpattu town 5115
manmunei North 5118
manmunei West 5121
Kaththankudi 5124
manmuneipattu 5127
manmunei South West 5130
Porativupattu 5133
manmunei South 5136
Koralepattu South 5139
Koralepattu central 5142
 
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
dehiaththakandiya 5203  
ampara
1 6
Padiyathalawa 5206
maha oya 5209
Uhana 5212
ampara 5215
Nawindaweli 5216
Samanthurei 5218
Kalmuna-tamil 5224
Saindamarudu 5225
Karativu 5227
Nindavur 5230
addalachchena 5233
Eragama 5234
akkaraipattu 5236
alayadivembu 5239
damana 5242
thirukkovil 5245
Pothuvil 5248
Lahugala 5251
Kalmuna - muslim 5254
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Padavi Sri pura 5303  
 
 
trincomalee
1 7
Kuchchaveli 5306
Gomarankadawala 5309
morawewa 5312
town and Gravets 5315
thambalagamuwa 5318
Kanthale 5321
Kinniya 5324
muthur 5327
Seruvila 5330
Verugal/
Echchalampattuwa
5333

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
517
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Giribawa 6103  
Kurunegala
1 8
Galgamuwa 6106
Ehetuwewa 6109
ambanpola 6112
Kotawehera 6115
Rasnayakapura 6118
Nikaweratiya 6121
mahawa 6124
Polpithigama 6127
ibbagamuwa 6130
Ganewatta 6133
Wariyapola 6136
Kobeigane 6139
Bingiriya 6142
Bamunakotuwa 6149
maspotha 6151
Kurunegala 6154
mallavapitiya 6157
mawathagama 6160
Rideegama 6163
Weerambugedara 6166
Kuliyapitiya East 6169
Kuliyapitiya West 6172
Udubaddawa 6175
Pannala 6178
Narammala 6181
alawwa 6184
Polgahawela 6187
Paduwasnuwara East 6190
Paduwasnuwara 
West
6193
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Kalpitiya 6203  
Puttalam
1 9
Wanathavilluwa 6206
Karuwalagaswewa 6209
Nawagaththegama 6212
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Puttlam 6215  
 
Puttalam
1 9
mundalama 6218
mahakumbukkadawala 6221
anamaduwa 6224
Pallama 6227
arachchikattuwa 6230
chilaw 6233
madampe 6236
mahawewa 6239
Naththandiya 6242
Wennappuwa 6245
dankotuwa 6248
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Padaviya 7103  
anuradhapura
2 0
Kebithigollewa 7106
medawachchiya 7109
mahawilachchiya 7112
Nuwaragampalatha 
 central
7115
Rambewa 7118
Kahatagasdigiliya 7121
horoupathana 7124
Galenbindunuwewa 7127
mihinthale 7130
Nuwaragampalatha 
 East
7133
Nachchaduwa 7136
Nochchiyagama 7139
Rajanganaya 7142
thambuttegama 7145
thalawa 7148
thirappane 7151
Kekirawa 7154
Palugaswewa 7157
ipalogama 7160
Galnewa 7163
Palagala 7166

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
518
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
higurakgoda 7203
Polonnaruwa
2 1
medirigiriya 7206
Lankapura 7209
Welikanda 7210
dimbulagala 7212
thamankaduwa 7215
Elahera 7218
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
mahiyanganaya 8103
Badulla
2 2
Rideemaliyadda 8106
meegahakiula 8109
Kandaketiya 8112
Soranathota 8115
Passara 8118
Lunugala 8119
Badulla 8121
hali Ela 8124
Uwa Paranagama 8127
Welimada 8130
Bandarawela 8133
Ella 8136
haputhale 8139
haldummulla 8142
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Bibila 8203
monaragala
2 3
madulla 8206
medagama 8209
Siyambalanduwa 8212
monaragala 8215
Badalkumbura 8218
Buttala 8221
Wellawaya 8224
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Kataragama 8227
monaragala
2 3
thanamalwila 8230
Sewanagala 8233
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Eheliyagoda 9103  
 
 
Rathnapura
2 4
Kuruwita 9106
Kiriella 9109
Rathnapura 9112
imbulpe 9115
Balangoda 9118
opanayake 9121
Pelmadulla 9124
Elapatha 9127
ayagama 9130
Kalawana 9133
Niwithigala 9136
Kahawatta 9139
Godakawela 9142
Weligepola 9145
Embilipitiya 9148
Kolonna 9151
 
Divisional Secretary’ s 
Division 
Number of 
the Divisional 
Secretary’ s 
Division
Relevant  
Number and 
District
Rambukkana 9203  
Kegalle
2 5
 
mawanella 9206
aranayake 9209
Kegalle 9212
Galigamuwa 9215
Warakapola 9218
Ruwanwella 9221
Bulathkohupitiya 9224
yatiyanthota 9227
dehiovita 9230
deraniyagala 9233 
03–444

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
519
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'03'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.03.2020
520
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
thE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2020
 mARCh 06.03.2020 friday — 20.02.2020 thursday 12 noon
  13.03.2020 friday –– 28.02.2020 friday 12 noon
  20.03.2020 friday –– 06.03.2020 friday 12 noon
  27.03.2020 friday –– 13.03.2020 friday 12 noon
 APRIL 03.04.2020 friday — 20.03.2020 friday 12 noon
  09.04.2020 thursday –– 27.03.2020 friday 12 noon
  17.04.2020 friday –– 03.04.2020 friday 12 noon
  24.04.2020 friday –– 09.04.2020 thursday 12 noon
  30.04.2020  thursday –– 17.04.2020 friday 12 noon
 m Ay 06.05.2020 Wednesday — 24.04.2020 friday 12 noon
  15.05.2020 friday –– 30.04.2020 thursday 12 noon
  22.05.2020 friday –– 06.05.2020 Wednesday 12 noon
  29.05.2020 friday –– 15.05.2020 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2020.
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.