

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1651
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1642
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"978 – 2016 cQ,s ui 29 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'07'29
No. 1,978 –  fRiday ,  July 29, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th august, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th  august, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
21st June, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1639
Note.— ameer ali foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 20, 2016.
N. B.–  (i) Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 1977 of 22.07.2016 was not published.
 (ii) the list of Jurors in Polonnaruwa Jurisdiction area in year 2016 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala 
and tamil languages only.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1640
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1641
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1642
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths
RathNaPuRa  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 29th of august, 2016.      
 E. M. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th of July, 2016.      
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Rathnapura imbulpe Post of Registrar of Births and deaths district Secretary/additional
   of Balangoda Base hospital area   Registrar General, district   
      Secretariat, Rathnapura.       
07–1101
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths
Badulla  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1643
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 30th of august, 2016.
 E. M. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th of July, 2016.
The schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Welimada Post of Registrar of Births and deaths district Secretary/additional
   of Silmiyapura division  Registrar General, district   
      Secretariat, Badulla. 
      
07–1102
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
KaNdy  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1644
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
30th august, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
11th of July, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
   Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy akurana Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages district Secretary/additional
   of harispaththuwa Rambuke Ela   Registrar General, district   
   area  Secretariat, Kandy. 
Kandy akurana Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages district Secretary/additional
   of akurana Kurugoda area   Registrar General, district   
      Secretariat, Kandy. 
Kandy akurana Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages district Secretary/additional
   of harispaththuwa division Nirulla  Registrar General, district   
   area  Secretariat, Kandy. 
     
07–1103
––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of DEbT CONCILIATION bOARD
Recruitment to the Post of Stenographer, Segment II 
of the management Assistant Non-Technical Category 
of the Department of Debt Conciliation board on 
Open basis - 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitable persons to fill 
the vacancies in the 03 posts of Stenographers, Segment ii 
of the Management assistant Non-technical category of 
the department of debt conciliation Board. application 
forms prepared as per the specimen form appended at 
the end of this notice should be sent by registered post to 
reach the 
“Secretary, the department of debt conciliation 
Board, dr. N. M. Perera Mawatha, colombo 10 ” on or 
before the closing date of applications mentioned below. 
the words “Recruitment to the Post of Stenographer in the 
department of debt conciliation Board” should be written 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the 
application form. 
closing date of application will be on 29.08.2016. 
Note.- No allegation that an application form or a 
document respecting such form has been lost or 
delayed in the post can be considered. applicants 
who delay their applications until the last day will do 
so at their own risk.
01. Method of Recruitment :
 Selection will be made on the order of merit secured 
at the practical test to be conducted by the Secretary 
to the department of debt conciliation Board or 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1645
an institution to be authorised by the Secretary to 
the department of debt conciliation Board. the 
number of recruitments and the date on which such 
recruitments will take effect will be decided by the 
order of the Public Service commission. 
02. the grade to be recruited.- Grade iii.
03. Terms of engagement : 
 (i) this post is permanent. 
 (ii) An officer recruited to this post is subject to a 
probationary period of three (03) years from 
the date on which his/her appointment takes 
effect. The officer is required to pass the First 
Efficiency Bar Examination before the expiry 
of the said three (03) years from the date on 
which the recruitments will be made to this 
post. 
 (iii) An officer recruited to this post should, in 
terms of the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 and the circulars issued incidental 
thereto, acquire the prescribed language 
proficiency within five (05) years of appointing 
to the post. The officer who enters the public 
service in a medium of language other than 
in a medium of any of the official languages 
will require to reach within the period of 
probation a requisite standard of proficiency 
in one official language and as per the Public 
administration circular No. 07/2007 and the 
circulars issued incidental thereto in the other 
official language. 
 (iv) This appointment will be subject to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission, Establishments code of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, 
financial Regulations, departmental orders 
and any other regulations and orders issued 
from time to time by the Government. 
04. Salary Scale.- in terms of the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016, this post which is under                         
MN-1-2016 carries a salary scale of Rs. 27,140 -10x300 
- 11x350 -10x495 - 10x660 - Rs. 45,540 per month and 
the initial salary scale amount to Rs. 15,924 as per grading 
system. 
05. Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) Should have passed six (06) subjects 
at the G. c. E. (o/l) Examination with 
credit passes for Sinhala/t amil/English 
language and Mathematics and two (02) 
other subjects at one sitting. 
 (b) Should have passed at least one (01) 
subject at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
(except for General common test).
 (ii) Professional Qualifications : 
  Should have followed a course on stenography 
with not less than six (06) months at a 
recognized institution or have possessed a 
credit pass for typewriting and shorthand at 
the G. c. E. (o/l) Examination. 
 (iii) experience.- Not applicable. 
06. Age limit.- applicants should be not less than 18 
years of age and not more than 30 years of age. 
07. Physical Fitness.- Every applicant should be in 
good mental and physical order to serve in any part of the 
island and to discharge the duties and functions of the post. 
08. Other Qualifications.- Every applicant must furnish 
satisfactory proof to the effect that he/she, 
 (i) is a citizen of Sri lanka,
 (ii) is of excellent moral character,
 (iii) has fulfilled the necessary qualifications 
in every respect as at the closing date of 
applications referred to in this notice calling 
for applications. In proof of the qualifications, 
copies of the certificates are required to be 
attached to the application. 
09. Practical Test.- Marks will be given at a Practical 
test to be conducted by the Secretary to the department of 
debt conciliation Board or an institution to be authorized 
by the Secretary to the department of debt conciliation 
Board. 
10. Method under which marks are awarded at the 
Practical test :
 Subjects Maximum Pass Mark
   Marks
Shorthand 100 40%
typewriting 100 40%
11. General Interview.- Qualifications will be checked 
by the interview Board to be appointed by the Secretary to 
the department of debt conciliation Board. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1646
13. Application : 
 (i) applications should be prepared on a a4 paper 
of 22x29cm in size using both sides and items 
from 01 to 12 to appear on the first page and 
from 13 onwards on the second page and it 
should be filled by the candidate's own legible 
handwriting. applications which are not in 
conformity with the specimen appended at the 
end of this notice or will be received after the 
closing date of acceptance of applications are 
liable to be rejected without notice. Incomplete 
applications and applications of applicants 
who do not possess the prescribed minimum 
requirements will also be rejected. Applicants 
should see that the his/her application is perfect 
in all respect. Receipt of applications will not 
be acknowledge. further, it is advisable if 
a copy of the application is retained with the 
applicant. 
 (ii) Applications from officers who are in the 
Public Service/Provincial Public Service/
Public corporations are required to be 
forwarded through the respective heads of the 
departments. 
14. Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, 
circulars that are now in force or may be issued from time 
to time in the future and the conditions of the recruitment 
procedure relating to Segment ii of the Management 
assistant Non-technical category of the department of 
debt conciliation Board shall be applicable to this post. 
 Secretary, 
 department of debt conciliation Board. 
2016.
 No. :..........................
 (For office use only)
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM 
applicaTion for The posT of sTenographer, segmenT ii 
of The managemenT assisTanT non-Technical caTegory 
of The deparTmenT of debT conciliaTion board on open 
basis - 2016
01.  (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––.
  Name with initials (in English Block capitals) 
:–––––––––.
 (b) full Name (in Sinhala /tamil) :–––––––––.
  full Name (in English Block captials) :–––––––.
02. Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––.
03.  Permanent address (in English Block capitals) :––––.
04. telephone No. :–––––––––.
05.  National identity card No. 
06. Sex :–––––––––.
07.  date of Birth : 
  y ear :––––––––, Month :––––––––, date :––––––––.
08.  age as at the closing date of applications : 
       years :––––––––. Months :––––––––. days :––––––––.
09.  Race :–––––––––.
10.  Marital Status :–––––––––.
11.  Results of the G. c. E. (a/l) Examination : 
 index No. :–––––––––.   year :–––––––––.
 Subject:–––––––––.  Grade :–––––––––.
 Subject:–––––––––.  Grade :–––––––––.
 Subject:–––––––––.  Grade :–––––––––.
12. Results of the G. c. E. (o/l) :
  index No. :–––––––––.   year  :–––––––––.
  Grade for the Sinhala language/t amil language/
English language :–––––––––.
  Grade for the Mathematics :–––––––––.
 Subject :–––. Grade :–––.    Subject :–––.  Grade :–––.  
 Subject :–––. Grade :–––.    Subject :–––.  Grade :–––.  
 Subject :–––. Grade :–––.    Subject :–––.  Grade :–––.  
15. Language Proficiency (Mark P in the relevant box)
 Very Good Good ordinary Weak
Sinhala 
tamil
English
Applicant's Declaration 
i, ........................................... declare that the particulars 
furnished by me in this application are true and correct. 
I certify that I have not been subject to any form of 
disciplinary action including dismissal from the service or 
retirement for general inefficiency as a merciful alternative 
to dismissal and i have not vacated the post previously. i 
am also aware that, if any particulars contained herein are 
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1647
if detected before selection and to dismissal without 
compensation, if detected after appointment. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
i do hereby cerify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................., 
the applicant above named is serving as ..................... 
attached to ........................... court/labour tribunal/
department of debt conciliation Board with effect from 
...../..../.... on permanent/temporary/casual basis and that 
the particulars furnished by him/her is true and accurate 
and that he/she is eligible to apply to the above post in 
terms of the requirements set out in relevant Gazette 
notification and that he/she can be/cannot be released from 
the service if he/she will be selected for this post. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the 
 Department and official seal. 
date :–––––––––.
Name :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––.
Ministry/department :–––––––––.
07-1221
––––––––––––––––––
3. Salary Scale.–  Rs. 393,480 - 7 x 4,440 - 2 x 5,940 - 
25x7,920 - Rs. 634,440.
Salary will be paid from 01.01.2016 to 01.01.2020 as 
per the Public administration circular 3/2016 Schedule ii, 
and the above mentioned salary scale will be effect from 
01.01.2020.
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted in accordance with the iG Police circular No. 
2416/2013, dated 07.01.2013. 
in addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid 
following allowances :  
    Rs. cts. 
 (a) cost of living allowances 7,800.00
 (b) combined allowance 
 (i) for performing duties in North 12,000.00
  and East areas
 (ii) for performing duties in other areas 9,600.00
 (c) other allowances 
  uniform cleaning allow ance 250.00
 (a) free transport facilities  
 (b) Free medical facilities to officers (Financial 
assistance can be obtained for medical 
treatment even in a foreign country)
 (c) all uniforms will be provided free of charge.
 (d) facilities to improve skill and talents in 
sports.
 (e) t ravelling expenses for duty and money will 
be granted as rewards for outstanding and 
arduous duties. 
04. Required Basic Qualifications : 
 (a) Age Limit.– the age should be between 18 and 
28 years as at closing date of the applications 
as per the Gazette Notification. However 
Police Officers currently serving in the Sri 
lanka Police are eligible to apply up to the 
age of 30 years at age as at the closing date of 
applications. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications : 
 * Should have passed 06 subjects in the G. C. E. 
(o/l) Examination in one sitting with 04 
credit passes including Mathematics and 
Medium language. 
 * Should have passed 03 subjects in the G. C. E. 
(a/l) Examination in one sitting. 
Note 01.– The subjects passed at the G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination is determined as per the 
subject classification of Department 
of Examinations i.e.- Science subject 
SRI  LANkA  POLICE   
Post of Woman Sub Inspector (Normal) 
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri lanka 
for the Post of Probationary Woman Sub-inspector of 
Police  in the Sri lanka Police. 
2. application forms duly perfected in accordance 
with the specimen form given below should be sent to 
director/Recruitment division, No. 375, 1st floor, Sri 
Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha, colombo 06. the 
application should be sent by the registered post to the 
above address to reach on or before 29.08.2016 and the 
post applied for should be marked on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. delayed 
applications will not be entertained and no applications 
will be issued by the Sri lanka Police. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1648
combination of Subject  Numbers 41 and 
44 is considered as one subject and Maths 
subject combination of Subject Number 
42 and 45 as one subject. 
Note 02.– If the written test of Technical subject at 
the G. c. E. (o/l) Examination is failed, 
it is considered as the Technical subject is 
failed even though the practical test of the 
same subject is passed. 
Note 03.–  Since optional tamil, English and Sinhala 
subjects are not included in the stream of 
G. c. E. (o/l) syllabus, passes in any 
of these subjects will not be accounted 
as passed subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) 
Examination. 
 (c) Physical Requirements : 
  * height 05 feet 04 inches (minimum).
Note.– applicants who are slightly short of the 
physical requirements, but fulfill the other 
stipulated qualifications will be eligible 
at the discretion of inspector General of 
Police provided that they have outstanding 
skills in sports and have achieved excellent 
performance in sports at national level or 
have earned reputation for Sri lanka by 
participating in an international competition. 
 (d) Visual Requirements.– Vision should not be less 
than 6/12 in each eye. it is also accepted, if the 
vision is 6/6 in one eye and 6/18 in the other eye it 
will be accepted. colour vision should be normal. 
applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses 
will not be eligible. 
 (e) Other Qualifications .– applicants should be 
unmarried (divorcees will be considered as 
married). only this condition will not apply for 
the Police Officers presently serving in the Sri 
Lanka Police and who have fulfilled the other 
qualifications. 
05. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will 
have to pass the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the 
department of Police. only those who pass this test must 
also get through the physical fitness test or endurance test. 
1,000 meters  05 minutes  14 seconds
Those who are successful in the physical fitness test will 
be summoned for the final interview and those who score 
40% or more in the final interview will be summoned for 
the written test.
 the Written test consists of two question papers :
* an essay paper not less than 500 words - 45 
minutes.
* General knowledge and intelligence test paper - 1 
hour.  
     
06. Medical examination.– applicant must pass the 
medical test before obtaining his appointment. Medical test 
is an only one part of the recruitment process. Selection 
will be made among the applicants who pass the medical 
test as per the number of existing vacancies and the position 
in the list pertaining to the merits and skill. those who fail 
the medical test will be rejected. 
07. Background Inquiries : 
 (a) Applicant's close relations and friends will 
be inquired, on the conduct of the applicant. 
applicants with bad conduct will not be 
recruited ;
 (b) Providing false information will make the 
applicant ineligible. if the false information is 
elicited after the appointment, the applicants 
will be dismissed from the service. 
08. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* as per the Public administration circular No. 
07/2007 dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry 
of Public administration and home affairs, all 
officers recruited to the Public/Provincial Public 
Service with effect from 01.07.2007 should 
acquire proficiency in the other official language 
within a period of 05 years in addition to the 
official language through which they enter the 
service. 
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant 
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should 
pass the level 2 of the language test conducted by 
the Department of Official Languages. 
* The salary increments of the officers who do not 
acquire the specific proficiency in the second 
official language within a period of 05 years from 
the date of their appointments will be deferred 
until they obtain qualifications.  

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1649
09. Terms of engagement.– this post is permanent and 
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows'/
Widowers' and Orphans' Pension Scheme. 
10. Conditions of Service : 
 (a) This appointment is subject to a probationary 
period of three years.
 (b) the selected applicants will be required to comply 
with any rules already made or may hereinafter be 
made to give effect to the official language policy.
 (c) They will be subjected to comply with the relevant 
provisions of the Establishments code V olume 
i and ii, financial Regulations, departmental 
orders, and any other orders that may be issued 
by the inspector General of Police or by the 
Government from time to time.
 (d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be 
required to pass the prescribed departmental 
Examinations. those who fail to pass the 
prescribed examinations or found to be unfit for 
Police duties will be liable to be removed from 
the Police Service.
 (e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior 
to the confirmation in the said rank without the 
permission of the inspector General of Police. 
however in terms of P. G. ii No. 41 dated 
28.02.1973 and I. G.'s Circular No. 1952/2006 
of 19.10.2006 and circular (amended) dated 
09.08.2007, it is possible to marry under special 
circumstances and with the permission of 
inspector General of Police.
 (f) applicants appointed after the training should 
serve a probationary period of 03 years in the Sri 
lanka Police and if they wish to resign from the 
service before their probation is over, they should 
sign a consent agreement to the effect that they are 
willing to pay any amount which was incurred on 
the training and uniforms etc., together with any 
other prescribed payments at the time of tendering 
their resignations. director of Poilce training 
college will decide it having calculated dues from 
the applicants. the acceptance of resignation 
should conform to the Section 4, chapter V of 
V olume i of the Establishments code, 1985.
 (g) Probationary Sub Women inspectors should 
subscribe affirmation/oath to the effect that 
they comply with the Police code of conduct 
immediate after commencing their training in 
terms of the i. G. P.’s circular, No. 1693/2003 ;
 (h) Probationary Sub Women inspectors should 
subscribe the oath of allegiance for a prestigious 
Public Service, immediate after commencing 
their training in terms of the I.G.P.'s Circular,              
No. 1804/2004 ;
 (i) Probationary Sub Women inspectors who have 
been confirmed in the post will have opportunities 
for promotions in terms of the approved schemes 
of promotions of the Sri lanka Police.  
11. (a) attention is invited to the general conditions 
applicable to appointments to posts in the Public 
Service published at the beginning of the Section 
(iia) of the Part i of this Gazette.
 (b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public 
administration  circular,  No.  15/90  dated 
10.03.1990. 
12. applicants should annex copies of the following 
documents to their application (originals must not be 
forwarded) :
 (i) Birth Certificate ;
 (ii) two recent testimonials of character (obtained 
from persons who are not related) ;
 (iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
 (iv) Certificates in support of sports with outstanding 
records or other extra curricular activates ;
 (v) a photostat copy of the service experience (if 
available) ;
 (vi) a photostat copy of the identity card.
13. (a) applicant who are already in the Public Service 
must forward their applications through the 
heads of their respective departments and they 
must be accompanied with a certificate stating 
that the officer can be released if selected. 
 (b) Applicants must fill the required particulars 
in their own hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in 
size and post them together with the copies 
of certificates called for, to the address given 
in paragraph two and under no circumstances 
should applications be handed over personally to 
any officer.
14. applications which do not conform to the 
requirements stipulated in this notification will be rejected 
and such applicants will not be notified. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1650
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
to applicants who are summoned for the test and 
interview. 
inspector General of Police. 
SRi  laNKa  PolicE 
posT of Women sub inspecTor (normal) 
specimen applicaTion form
01.  (a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   (As stated in the applicant's Birth Certificate)
  (b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 (copy of the Nic should de attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth 
belongs :––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :––––––––––.
  (b) Police Station to which the present address belongs 
:––––––––––.
  (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (d) Police Station to which the permanent address 
belongs :––––––––––.
  (e) Grama Niladari
’s division to which permanent 
address belongs :––––––––––.
   divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
  (f) t elephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
   Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  (b) Whether you are a Sri lankan citizen by birth or  
  registration :–––––––––.
   (If by registration attach copy of that certificate)
  (c)  if you are citizen by birth state the place of birth :–
  (i) applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) applicant
’s father :––––––––––.
  (iii) applicant’s paternal grandfather :––––––––.
  (iv) applicant’s paternal great grandfather :–––––––.
07. date of Birth :––––––––––. 
 (Copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
 age :-
 (as at the closing date of applications as per the Gazette 
Notification) :  
 y ears :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
08. height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (mention the examinations 
passed and the copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
11. civil status :––––––––––.
12.  (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (ii) are you a member of any armed force ? :––––––.
13. Do you have special skills and/or qualifications? :–––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two non-relative referees 
to inquire about the applicant :
  (i) ––––––––––.
  (ii) ––––––––––.
15. have you served in the Sri lanka Police Service 
before ? (if so, what are the reasons for leaving the 
service ? give details) :––––––––.
16. (a) are you serving in any armed service ? (if so 
your application must be forwarded through the 
respective Service commander) :–––––––––.
 (b) have you served in an armed service ? (if so 
attach a copy of your discharge certificate) :                
––––––––––.
17. (a) are you serving in a V olunteer armed Service ? 
(if so, your application must be forwarded 
through the respective Service commander) : 
––––––––.
 (b) have you served in V olunteer armed service ? 
:––––––––.
  (If so attach a copy of your discharge certificate)
18. have you been arrested on suspicion of having 
committed an offence ? have you been, convicted or 
brought before the court or punished (if so give details) 
:––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1651
19. has any of your relation been arrested on suspicion of 
having committed an offence or convicted or brought 
before the court or punished (if so give details) :–––––.
i, hereby declare that the above particulars are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. if the 
particulars furnished are found to be incorrect or false, i 
am aware that i am liable for immediate termination of my 
service in the Sri lanka Police at any time even though i 
have been appointed to the post. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
20. Certification of the Head of Department (If  applicable) :
this is to certify that the applicant Mr./Miss ..................... 
is serving in ........................... the department corporation/
Board and if he is selected for the above post, he could be 
released from service. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department 
 with the designation seal. 
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
07–1071
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
ATTORNEy  GENERAL’S  DEPARTmENT 
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to the Posts of Stenographer – Class 
III in the Attorney General’s Department – 2016
aPPlicatioNS are invited from eligible citizens in 
Sri Lanka to fill vacancies in the following posts in the 
attorney General
’s department. 
(a) class iii Posts of Stenographer - Sinhala Medium  14
(b) class iii Posts of Stenographer - English Medium  11
(c) class iii Posts of Stenographer - tamil Medium  02
02. Receipt of Applications. – applications should be 
prepared in accordance with the specimen set out at the 
end of this Gazette Notification by the candidate using both 
sides of ‘a4’ size paper (21 x 29cm). headings 01 to 03 
should be entered on the first page, 04 to 08 on the second 
page and the rest on page three and relevant particulars 
should be entered in the candidate's own handwriting very 
clearly. applications which do not conform to the specimen 
application form and incomplete applications will be 
rejected without notice. It would be advisable to retain 
a copy of the application. further, it is essential that the 
name of the Examination should be given in applications 
in Sinhala, in English in addition and in applications in 
tamil in English in addition. applications prepared in the 
medium in which candidate sit the examination should 
be forwarded to the address “attorney General, attorney 
General
’s department, P. o. Box 502, colombo 12” under 
registered cover on or before 25th august, 2016. 
 (a) the top left hand corner of the envelope should 
carry the words as "Recruitment to Posts of 
Stenographer - 2016".
 (b) Officers in the Public Service/Provincial Public 
Service should forward their applications through 
the heads of their institutions before the due date. 
 (c) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
it will not be possible to consider complaints to the 
effect that an application or documents connected 
therewith were lost or delayed in the post. 
 (d) applications which do not conform to the 
specimen application form, applications which are 
incomplete and those receive after the closing date 
will be rejected without any notice. 
03. The Identity of the Candidate.– all candidates 
should establish their identity to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor of the examination hall. only one of the 
following documents will be accepted for this purpose. 
 (a) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons, 
 (b) a  valid passport.
04. False Information.– accurate information should be 
furnished when filling the application. If it is revealed that 
a candidate does not possess the required qualifications, 
the candidature can be annulled at any stage before, during 
or after the examination. if it comes to the light that some 
fact presented is incorrect, he/she may be dismissed from 
the public service. 
05. Monthly Salary Scale entitled to this post.– MN 
1-2006(a) Rs. 13,120 - 10x 145 - 11 x170 - 10x 240 - 10 
x 320 - Rs. 22,040 in terms of the Public administration 
circular No. 6/2006 and salaries are paid in terms of the 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1652
provisions in that circular. Efficiency Bar Examination 
should be passed before salary step four. this Salary Scale 
is subject to amendment as per Public Administration 
circular No. 03/2016.
06. The examination Fee .– fee for this examination 
is Rs. 500. that examination fee should be credited to 
the account No. 007041486 in the name of "attorney 
General" at the taprobane Branch of Bank of ceylon and 
the receipt obtained should be pasted to the relevant cage 
in the application (mentioning the branch issued, number 
and date). for no reason will the payment made for the 
examination be refunded. it would be advisable to retain a 
photocopy of the receipt. 
07. Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years of age 
or more than 30 years of age on the last day for the receipt 
of applications. 
08. Conditions of employment in the Service :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. 
Contributions have to be paid for the Widows'/
Widowers' and Orphans' Pension (W & OP). 
Appointment is subject to a probation period of 
three (03) years. 
  the provisions in the procedural rules No. 
1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009 issued by the Public 
Service commission are applicable. 
 (ii) If an officer serving in a permanent post in the 
Public Service/Provincial Public Service is 
selected, he/she shall be subject to one year trial 
period. 
 (iii) The relevant level of language proficiency should 
be obtained within the prescribed time period as 
per the Public administration circular No. 7/2007 
and the circulars incidental thereof. 
 (iv) Shall work at Colombo 12. The Attorney General's 
department. 
09. Educational and other qualifications : 
 (i) Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) Pass in 06 subjects with 04 credit passes 
including Mathematics and Sinhala/English/
tamil language in one sitting at G. c. E. 
(o/l) Examination ;  
  and
 (b) At least pass in one subject (Excluding 
General test and General English under New 
Syllabus) at General Certificate of Education 
(advanced level) Examination. 
 (ii) Vocational Qualifications.– having followed 
a course on typing and shorthand not less than 
six months (06) recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission, in the relevant 
language of application to the post. 
 (iii) experience : 
 (a) having served in a court/labour tribunal in 
the capacity of casual, contract or trainee 
Stenographer for not less than six (06) 
months ; 
  or 
 (b) having undergone a practical training for 
not less than six (06) months in an institution 
recognized by the Government. 
10. candidates should be prepared to forward the 
originals of the following documents in case of necessary : 
 (i) Birth Certificate,
 (ii) Educational Certificates, 
 (iii) Two character certificates taken recently. 
11. Methodology of selection to appointment.– this 
open competitive Examination for recruitment consists 
of a Written Examination and a V ocational test. Written 
Examination is held first and forty percent (40%) marks 
or more out of 100 marks should be taken for each subject 
in order to pass. twice of the number of vacancies will 
be called for the vocational test in sequence with highest 
marks obtained among passed candidates. Selection will 
be made on the merit order of aggregate marks among 
the candidates who score forty percent (40%) or more 
at the vocational test. (it is mandatory to satisfy all the 
qualifications set out in this notice). 
 (i) candidates should appear for the examination 
in the medium of language applied for the posts. 
(Ex.- candidates apply for English Medium posts 
should appear for examination in the English 
Medium). it is not allowed to change language 
applied for subsequently. 
 (ii) appointments will be made for Sinhala medium 
posts on the merit of aggregate marks of Sinhala 
medium candidates, for English medium posts on 
the merit of aggregate marks of English medium 
candidates, for tamil medium posts on the merit 
of aggregate marks of tamil medium candidates. 
 (iii) this examination will be held in october, 2016 in 
colombo only. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1653
12. Method of selection : 
 12.1 Written examination : 
  Question Paper Marks Time 
 (i) intelligence test 100 02 hrs. 
 (ii) General Knowledge 100 02 hrs. 
 (i) Intelligence Test.– this is expected to evaluate 
candidate's general knowledge, reasoning 
ability expression of ideas, numerical skills 
and knoweldge on understanding, qualification, 
understanding the relationship between time and 
space through responses to problems presented 
in numerical expressions and graphs. 
 (ii) General Knowledge.– this paper focuses on 
the candidate's ability on font style, usage 
of grammar, clear expressions, knowledge 
of idiomatic expressions, summarizing and 
writing essays in respect of social cultural, 
educational poticial, economic and other 
relevant factors in National, Zonal and Various 
organizational background in the entire world 
as well as our society. 
 12.2 Vocational Test : 
  Question Paper Marks Passing 
    marks
 (i) Sinhala/tamil Stenography 100 40
 (ii) English Stenography 100 40 
 (i) Sinhala/Tamil Stenography :
 (a) t ake down in shorthand a paragraph, 
uninterruptedly read within a five minutes 
at the speed of 70 words per minutes and 
type the same note at the speed of 08 
words per minute ; 
  and
 (b) t ype for 20 minutes at the minimum speed 
of 30 words per minute. 
 (ii) english Stenography : 
 (a) t ake down in shorthand a paragraph, 
uninterruptedly read within a five minutes 
at the speed of 80 words per minute and 
type the same note at the speed of 08 words 
per minute ; 
  and 
 (b) t ype for 20 minutes at the minimum speed 
of 40 words per minute. 
13. Appearance for the examination.– admission cards 
for the examination will be issued so as to receive it a week 
prior to the scheduled date of the examination. candidates 
without admission cards will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. candidates who appear for the examination 
should produce the supervisor of the examination, their 
signatures attested admission cards. 
immediately after admission cards are issued to the 
candidates a paper notification informing the same will be 
issued. if a candidate has not received his/her admission 
card after 2 or 3 days of the notification he/she should 
communicate with the Attorney General's Department. It 
will be useful to make inquiries with certified copies of 
the application, the receipt of the payment and the receipt 
of registration retained by you and with your request letter 
in which a fax number has been mentioned to send the 
admission card if outside of colombo. 
14. Signature of the candidate should be attested 
by a Principal of Govt. School, a Justice of Peace, a 
commissioner of oaths, a Notary Public, a commissioned 
Officer of Armed Forces and an Officer holding a Gazetted 
Post in the Police Service or an officer receiving a salary of 
Rs. 292,080 or more and holding a permanent post in the 
Public or Provincial Public Service. 
15. Candidates are subject to all rules and regulations 
imposed in respect of the conduction of the examination, 
he/she should be liable to a penalty imposed if breach of 
such rules and regulations. 
16. The Attorney General has the final decision in 
respect of conduction of the examination, appointments 
and all other factors. 
Note.– in the event of any inconsistency, among 
notifications published in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
medium in this Gazette notification, Sinhala medium shall 
prevail. 
 
JayanTha Jayasooriya, 
 President's Counsel,
 attorney General. 
Attorney General's Department, 
colombo 12, 
on 12th July, 2016. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1654
(For office use only)
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN 
The open compeTiTive examinaTion for The recruiTmenT 
To The posT of sTenographer (grade iii) in The aTTorney 
general's deparTmenT - 2016
Medium in which the candidate appears for the 
examination : 
Sinhala - 1
tamil - 2
English - 3
1.0 1.1 Name of the candidate with initials :–––––––––.
  (in capital letters) (eg.- PERERa  a. B. c.)
 1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in capital letters)
 1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.4 National identity card No. :
 1.5 Sex : 
  female - 1
  Male - 0
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in capital letters)
 2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 a ddress to which the admission card should be  
  sent :
 (i) in Sinhala/tmail :–––––––––––.
 (ii) in capital letters :–––––––––––.
 2.4 t elephone No. :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Marital status : 
  Married  - 2
  unmarried - 1
 (indicate in the relevant cage)
 3.2 date of Birth : 
  y ear : Month :  date :
 3.3 age as at the closing date of application : 
  y ears : Months :  days :
 3.4 Whether you are a citizen in Sri lanka from birth 
or registration ? :–––––––––––.
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
  4.1 G. c. E. (o/l) Examination : 
 (i) year and the month of the Examination :
  y ear :–––––––––––. Month :–––––––––––.
 (ii) index No. :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade 
 1  6
 2  7
 3  8 
 4  9
 5  10
  4.2 details in respect of G. c. E. (a/l) Examination : 
 (i) year and the month of the Examination :
  y ear :–––––––––––. Month :–––––––––––.
 (ii) index No. :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
   Subject Grade 
 1
 2
 3
 4
5.0 Professional Qualifications : 
 Name of the Course Duration Institute 
6.0 Experience : 
 Name of the Institute in  Duration
 which trained or worked
7.0  have you ever been convicted for any offence in the 
court of law ? (indicate P in the relevant cage)
   y es   No
 if so convicted, provide details of nature of the offence, 
the court which gave the conviction and nature of the 
conviction. 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1655
8.0 details of the receipt of the payment of the exam fee : 
 (i) Name of the branch of Bank of ceylon to which 
the exam fees were made :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Number and the date of the receipt :––––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid :–––––––––––.
Firmly affix the receipt here
9.0 Certificate of candidate : 
 (a) i do honourably declare that the particulars 
furnished by me in this application are true and 
correct to the best of my knowledge. i agree to bear 
the loss arising due to failure to fill any information 
and/or filling information in an inaccurate manner. 
further, i declare that all information have been 
perfectly completed. 
 (b) i agree to act according to the rules of the 
examination and also accept the decision given 
to cancel my candidacy before or after the 
examination in case it is found that i am not 
eligible in accordance with the conditions. 
 (c) i am also aware that if it appears this statement 
made by me is inaccurate i am liable to be 
disqualified and liable to be dismissed from the 
service even after appointment. 
 (d) No information mentioned in this will be changed. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
10.0 Attestation of signature of candidate :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who 
is forwarding this application is personally known to 
me and he/she placed his/her signature before me on 
..............................
 ––––––––––––––,
 Attestor's signature and Seal. 
Full name of the officer attesting the signature :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
11.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department :
    (Relevant to the officers serving in the Public Service)
i certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Miss 
.......................... is serving in the post of ............................ 
and particulars given by him/her true. further if selected for 
this post he/she can/cannot be released from .....................
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department. 
date :–––––––––––.
07–1136
mINISTRy  Of  LANDS
Survey Department 
oPEN  coMPEtitiVE  ExaMiNatioN  foR  REcRuitMENt  to  PoStS  iN  SRi  laNKa 
tEchNoloGical  SERVicE  Which  REMaiNS  VacaNt  iN  thE  SuRVEy  dEPaRtMENt
aPPlicatioNS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination to be held to 
recruit to the posts in Sri lanka technological Service which remain vacant in Survey department. 
1.1 Posts to be recruited : 
  table No. 01 
 Serial  Designation  Number of vacancies  Grade for which 
 No.    to be filled recruitment is  
     made
1 Building Supervisor Only in Head Office in Colombo. Should be 01 Grade III
   worked in the Head Office in Colombo 
2 Transport Officer  during the entire period of service  01 Grade III

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1656
1.2 Nature of duties of Posts : 
   table No. 02 Nature of duties of posts
 Serial No. Designation  Nature of duty/Main Functions 
1 Building Supervisor 01. Preparation of annual building maintenance plan. 
  02. Propose the building maintenance process to the management. 
  03. Supervising of employee gangs.
  04. Storing of raw material required for maintenance, tools and management. 
  05. t aking quantity surveying for payments and obtaining of approvals.
2 Transport Officer 01. Supplying of technical information requrie for maintenance of departmental  
   vehicles in road worthy condition.
  02. Providing of approval and recommendation report require for repairs. 
  03. Supervision of road worthy condition of vechiles after repairs, supervision of   
   maintenance of vehicles. 
  04. Giving instruction to drivers.
  05. in case of accident immediate investigations and providing reports and   
   condemnation of wrecked vehicles. 
  06. Adjusting of vehicle to obtain environment friendly certificates. 
2. the number of appointment and the date of appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. the 
appointing authority has power to fill or not to fill all or any number of vacancies. 
3. Salaries.– table No. 03
 Grade Salary Scale  Initial Monthly salary 
Grade iii Monthly Rs. 31,040 -10x445 -11x660 - 10x730 -  Rs. 31,040  
100x750 - Rs. 57,550 (the salary entitled to the date
  (MN3- 2016) of 01.01.2017 in  terms of P. a. c.  
 03.2016 is Rs. 21,419)
Grade ii Monthly Rs. 31,040 -10x445 -11x660 -10x730 - Rs. 36,150
  100x750 - Rs. 57,550 (the salary entitled to the date of 
  (initiate from salary step 12) (MN3- 2016) 01.01.2017 in terms of P. a. c.   
 03.2016 is Rs. 24,951)
Grade i Monthly Rs. 31,040 -10x445 -11x660 -10x730 - Rs. 43,480
  100x750 - Rs. 57,550 (the salary entitled to the date of
  (initiate from salary step 23) (MN3- 2016) 01.01.2017 in  terms of P. a. c.   
 03.2016 is Rs. 30,019)
4. the post permanent. action will be taken regarding of the pension scheme entitle on the policy decision taken 
by the government in future. Appointment is subject to 03 years' probation period. Since the remaining posts are available 
only at head office in Colombo you should serve in the head office during the entire period of service and subject to 
general conditions applicable to appointment to the public service specified at the beginning of this Gazette Notification. 
5. Qualifications : 
 5.1  Basic Qualifications : 
 (01) Should be a citizen of Sri lanka, 
 (02) the minimum age should be 18 years and maximum age should be 30 years as at the closing date of 
application. 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1657
  (the maximum age limit is not applicable for 
those who hold a permanent post already in the 
public service)
 5.2 Educational Qualification :
 (a) Should have passed the G. c. E. (o/l) 
Examination in Six subjects in not more than 
two sittings with credit passes for Sinhala/
tamil/English language Mathematics and 
Science and for one another subject ; and
 (b) Should have passed the G. c. E. (a/l) 
Examination in three subjects in one sitting 
with two subjects of Combined Mathematics 
and Physics. 
 5.3 Professional Qualifications :
  Following Professional Qualifications should 
have been obtained, for transport officer, in the 
field of mechanical, for building supervisor in the 
field of civil. 
 (a) National diploma in technology awarded by 
the university of Moratuwa or hardy technical 
college ampara ;
or
 (b) National diploma in Engineering awarded by 
the National apprenticeship and industrial 
training authority ; 
or
 (c) higher National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the Ministry of Education and 
higher Education ; 
or
 (d) diploma in technology awarded by the open 
university of Sri lanka ;
or
 (e) Successful completion of part. 01 of the 
Engineering examination conducted by the Sri 
lanka institute of Engineer;
or
 (f) Completion of Qualifications in National 
V ocational to the (NVQ) level 06 relevant to 
the occupational field ;
or
 (g) Any other qualifications recognized by 
the tertiary and Professional Education 
commission as being equivalent in all respect 
to the Technological Qualifications mentioned 
above after obtaining views of the institutions 
such as Ministry of higher Education and the 
Institutions by which the above certificates 
issued. 
 5.4 Physical fitness.– all candidates should be 
physically fit adequate to serve in any part of Sri 
lanka and to carry out duties in the post. 
  Note.– it is compulsory that all applicants should 
complete necessary qualifications to the post on 
or before the closing date of application. 
6. Furnishing false information.– if a candidate is found 
not to have required qualification to sit this examination his/
her candidature can be cancelled before the examination or 
duration of the examination, or after the examination or at 
any time. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate 
is found to be false within his/her knowledge or if he/she 
has willfully suppressed by material fact he/she will be 
liable to dismissal from the public service. 
7. examination Procedure.– the examination will 
consists of written test consisting two subjects. This 
examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English 
mediums. the medium applied will not be allowed to 
change subsequently. 
       Maximum marks obtainable Minimum percentage of marks  Time
    requried for a pass
01.  intelligence 100 50% 1 hour
02. Subjective Technological test 100 50% 2 hours
 7.1 Syllabus : 
 01. Intelligence.– consists of Questions to Judge the rationality of thought, analytical ability of thought 
and ability to decide, of the candidate. 
 02. Subjective Technological test : 
 * Mathematics.
 * algebra (in equation, Variables, Grades, logarithm).

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1658
 * trigonometry (Solving of Equation, triangles). 
 * Statistics (Mean, Mode, Standard deviation, 
probability). 
  Physics. 
  Lights and Optics (Reflection and Refraction : 
Mirrors, curved Surfaces, Prisms, lenses and 
formulas of optics, Microscope and telescope. 
Newtonian mechanics (Scalars and Vectors, Newton's 
law of motion, Momentum). 
Miscellaneous topics. 
introduction to geography (shape of the earth, 
topography etc.)
the angle view of solid substances and derivation of 
projections. 
8. Selection procedure :
 8.1 Number of candidates equal to the number to be 
filled, of the candidates who obtained the highest 
marks of a written examination conduct by the 
Surveyor General, will be recruited firstly in the 
order of merits and secondly on the options to the 
post indicate in the application. 
 8.2 an interview will be held to ascertain whether the 
qualifications have been fulfilled and no marks 
will be given for the interview. 
9. Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made to the Grade 
iii of Sri lanka technological service. 
10. Preparation and Submission of Application : 
 (a). the application should be prepared by the 
applicant himself using both sides of a paper 
size 21x29 (a4) as per the specimen application 
appearing at the end of this notice. No. 01 - 04 
should be on page 01, No. 04.1-10.1 on page 
02, No. 10.2-11.1 on page 03 and No. 12-14 on 
page 04 and No. 15 should be on page 05 of the 
application.
 (b) candidates who are already employed in 
Public or Provincial Public Services should 
forward their applications through their heads 
of departments, candidates who are employed 
in public corporations the local government 
bodies etc. should forward their applications 
through their heads of institutions on or before 
the due date. 
 (c) applications should be in the language in 
which the candidates are eligible to sit the 
examination. 
 (d) Citified copies of certificates of causes which 
your professional qualifications are confirmed 
should be sent with the application. 
 (e) applications which are not complying with 
the specimen form, examination fees have not 
been paid, of improper filling, will be rejected 
without any notice. candidates should bear 
consequences of improper filling of applications. 
it would be useful to retain a photocopy of the 
application. it is responsibility of the candidate 
to find out whether the completed application 
complies with the application specified in the 
notice. If not application will be rejected. 
 (f) Receipt of applications will not be 
acknowledged. complaints for any loss of 
applications in the post will not be considered. 
N. B.– changing of examination centre applied 
to sit the examination will not be allowed 
subsequently. 
 10.1 on the presumption that only the candidates 
who have qualifications specified in Gazette 
Notification have applied, Surveyor General 
will allow all candidates who have paid 
specified examination fees and submitted 
application on or before 29.08.2016 to sit the 
examination. issuing of admission card shall 
not be deemed as the applicant possesses 
qualifications to the post or to sit the 
examination. candidature of the applicant 
will be cancelled if it is found at the time of 
interview that the applicant does not possess 
the requirement for this post. 
 10.2 the envelope containing the application 
should be clearly marked "Recruitment to 
the posts in technological service" on the top 
left hand corner. 
 10.3 the signature of the applicant in the 
application should be certified by a Principal 
of a Government School/Justice of the 
Peace/commissioner of oaths/attorney-at-
Law/Commissioned Officer in the Army/An 
Officer in Police Service hold a Gazette Post 
or an Officer who hold a permanent post 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1659
in Public service in tertiary or senior level 
in terms of the grading of Public Service 
circular No. 06/2006. 
11. examination Fee.– Examination fee is Rs. 800. this 
fee should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor General 
Office in No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any 
of district survey office or at Institute of Surveying and 
Mapping - diyathalawa. the receipt should be pasted in 
the relevant cage in the application form. (it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with applicant). the fee is 
not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and 
cheques will not be accepted. applications without cash 
receipts will be rejected. 
12. Submission of application.– completed application 
should be sent by registered post to reach to the following 
address on or before 29th august, 2016 :
  Surveyor General, 
  Survey department, 
  P. o. Box 506, 
  colombo.
13. Appearing for the examination.– Every candidate 
should hand over their admission card to the supervisor 
of the Examination centre. a candidate who fails to hand 
over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. the candidate should sit the examination at 
the examination hall assigned to him. 
14. Identity of Candidate. – candidates should prove 
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor for each paper they sit. any of the following 
documents will be accepted for their purpose : 
01. the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons, 
02.  a valid passport. 
15. Any matter not specified here will be determined by 
the Sruveyor General. all applicants shall be bound to act 
in terms of the general rules and regulations of examination 
specified in this Gazette Notification. 
  
p. m. p. udayakanTha,
  Surveyor General. 
Survey department, 
colombo 05,
29th July, 2016.
specimen applicaTion form 
open compeTiTive examinaTion for recruiTmenT To The 
posT in sri lanka Technological service Which remain 
v acanT in The survey deparTmenT
For office use only   
01. Name of the examination centre applied to sit the 
examination :
 colombo 
 diyathalawa
 anuradhapura
 indicate mark "P" in the relevant cage of the centre the 
applicant intends to sit for the examination and indicate 
mark "x" in other two cages. 
02. Medium of examination : 
 (Sinhala - S t amil - t English - E)
 (indicate the letter/code in given cages)
03. the orders of preference for which appointment are to 
be made :
 No. 01 should be marked for the post of highest 
preference and No. 02 in serial order for next 
preferences :
 Serial No. Designation Preference No. 
 1. Building controller
 2. Transport Officer
04. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
 in Sinhala :––––––––––––.
 in English :––––––––––––.
 04.1 Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
  in Sinhala :––––––––––––.
  in English :––––––––––––.
05. National identity card No. :––––––––––––.
06. date of Birth : 
 date :  Month :  y ear : 
07. Gender :
  Male - M
  female - f

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1660
08. Permanent address (in legible letters) :–––––––––––.
 08.1 administrative district to which address belongs :
  district No. : Name of the district : 
 08.2 date from which the applicant is resident in the  
 district :–––––––––––.
09. telephone No. :  Permanent :–––––––––––.
    Mobile :–––––––––––.
10. Educational qualifications :–––––––––––.
 10.1 details of G. c. E. ordinary level Examination : 
  1st attempt : 
  (1) y ear and month of the examination :––––––.
  (2) index No. :–––––––––––.
  (3) Subjects passed :–––––––––––.
 Subject  Grade Subject Grade 
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8
* mention subjects, starting with the highest grade 
obtained. 
 10.2 details of G. c. E. ordinary level Examination : 
  2nd attempt : 
  (1) y ear and month of the examination :––––––.
  (2) index No. :–––––––––––.
  (3) Subjects passed :–––––––––––.
 Subject  Grade Subject Grade 
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8
* mention subjects, starting with the highest grade 
obtained. 
 10.3 details of G. c. E. advanced level Examination : 
  (1) y ear and month of the examination :––––––.
  (2) index No. :–––––––––––.
  (3) Subjects passed :–––––––––––.
 Subject  Grade  
1  
2  
3  
4
  
11. have you ever been convicted in a court of law for 
any offence :
 y es   No
 11.1 if yes give details :–––––––––––.
12. details of receipt which the examination fees paid :
  (i) Office at which the payment made :–––––––––.
  (ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
  (iii) amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
13. Certificate of the candidate : 
 (a) i declare that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct to the best of 
my knowledge. 
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration made by me is 
found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit 
for the appointment and if it is found after the 
appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from 
the service. 
 (c) the cash receipt obtained for the payment of 
................. has been pasted in relevant cage. 
 (d) further, i declare that i agree to comply with the 
rules and regulations laid down by the Surveyor 
General in respect of the examination. 
 (e) i shall not subsequently change any of the 
particulars mention here. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
14. Certification of Signature of the Applicant : 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................ who is 
submitting the application is personally known to me and 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1661
that he/she placed his/her signature under the section 13, 
in my presence. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of attestor. 
date :––––––––––.
Name of the attester :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(By affixing the official stamp)
15. Recommendation of the head of the department (only 
for the applicants who are in Public/Provincial Public 
Service) :
15.1 According to the personal file of the officer, 
during the five years immediately prior to the 
closing date of application :––––––––––.
 Work, Behaviour, attendance satisfactory/
unsatisfactory. 
 all salary increments have been earned/have not 
been earend. 
 Has not been/has been subject to any disciplinary 
action. 
15.2 If selected to the post applied for, this officer can 
be/ cannot be released from the post he holds at 
present. the application is recommended/not 
recommended.  
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the head of the departments,
  Official Stamp. 
date :––––––––––.
SCHEDuLE 01
this Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts 
to which address belongs on No. 8.1 of the application. 
 Town/District Name Town/District No. 
 1. colombo 01
 2. Gampaha 02
 3. Kalutara 03
 4. Kandy 04
 5. Matale 05
 6. Nuwara Eliya 06
 7. Galle 07
 8. Matara 08
 9. hambantota 09
 10. Kurunegala 10
 11. Puttalam 11
 12. anuradhapura 12
 13. Polonnaruwa 13
 14. Badulla 14
 15. Monaragala 15
 16. Rathnapura 16
 17. Kegalle 17
 18. ampara 18
 19. Batticaloa 19
 20. trincomalee 20
 21. Jaffna 21
 22. Vavuniya 22
07–1192
––––––––––––––––––
 Town/District Name Town/District No. 
DEPARTmENT  Of  ExAmINATIONS
SRI  LANkA
Final Certificate Examination for Ahadhiya/Al-
Qur’an Schools on Islamic Studies – 2015 (2016)
(Equivalent to Daham Pasal Final Certificate 
Examination)
RuLES and Regulations.– the above examination will be 
conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations 
during November, 2016. Subjects and the syllabus for the 
examination are given in annexure i. 
2. Centres for examination.– Examination centres 
will be set up in towns indicated in annexure ii of this 
notification. Centres in any town will be cancelled if 
sufficient number of candidates has not requested that town. 
in case of such cancellation of any town the candidates will 
be transferred to centres set up in the nearest town.  
3. Language Medium.– this examination will be 
conducted in tamil, Sinhala and English medium. 
However, a candidate should appear for all the subjects in 
one and the same medium. 
4. eligibility.– Every applicant should have fulfilled at 
least one of the following requirements :–
 4.1 Should be a student in Grade 10 or Grade 11 in an 
ahadhiya School registered with the department 
of Muslim Religious and cultural affairs ; 
or 
 4.2 Should be a student who has completed the Senior 
Grade al-Quaran Madrasa Syllabus approved 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1662
by the department of Muslim Religious and 
cultural affairs ; 
or 
 4.3 Should be a student who has passed the subjects 
of islam and arabic in the G. c. E. (o/l) 
Examination conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka. 
 
Note :
 (i) applications for this examination should be 
certified by the Principal of the Ahadhiya School 
or by the Principal of the al-Qur’an Madrasa 
or by the Principal of School to the effect that 
the candidate has fulfilled the requirements 
mentioned under paragraph 4 above. 
 (ii) an applicant can submit application for this 
examination only through the Principal of an 
ahadhiya School or the Principal of a Senior 
al-Qur’an Madrasa or School. 
5. in the event a registered ahadhiya School, Senior 
Qur'an Madrasa or a School does not receive the application 
forms and instructions by post on time the Principal 
concerned should contact the –
commissioner General of Examinations, 
(organization and foreign Examinations Branch), 
department of Examinations, 
P. o. Box 1503, 
colombo. 
on or before 26th of august, 2016.
 5.1 applications should be prepared in duplicate. 
the original should be forwarded to the 
department of Examinations while the duplicate 
should be kept filed in the relevant Institution. 
 5.2 the closing date of applications will be 26th of 
august, 2016. 
 5.3 Applications should be clearly and legibly filled 
in. Inaccurately or Illegibly filled applications 
and those that are received after the closing date 
will be rejected. 
 5.4 duly perfected applications should be sent under 
registered cover to the - 
  commissioner General of Examinations, 
  (organization and foreign Examinations Branch), 
  department of Examinations, 
  P. o. Box 1503, 
  colombo.
 5.5 applications will not be acknowledged. 
 5.6 the name of the Examination “ahadiya/al 
Quran Madrasa Final Certificate Exam – 2015 
(2016)” and the chosen town for the exam 
should be clearly written on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. 
 5.7 No document should be annexed to the 
application. the Principals of the institutions 
should certify to the effect that the applicant 
holds the stipulated qualifications. 
6.  Mode of Payment :
 6.1 The examination fee for all four subjects                  
is Rs. 150 and the fee for one repeat subject is    
Rs. 50. No examination fee will be charged from 
those who sit for this examination for the first 
time. 
 6.2 the amount which is equal to the total 
Examination fee, should be paid at any post 
office and the receipt obtained should be firmly 
attached to the application. 
7. Admission Cards.– commissioner General of 
Examinations shall issue the admission cards through 
the relevant heads of the institutions. they will handover 
admission cards to the candidates.
 7.1 in the event a candidate fails to produce his/
her admission card to the supervisor on the 
first instance of sitting the examination or 
attempting to sit the Examination at a centre 
other than the one allocated to him/her by the 
commissioner General of Examinations, his/
her candidature can be cancelled. 
 7.2 the specimen signature of the candidate 
should be attested by the head of the relevant 
institution or by an officer in permanent 
Government service drawing a salary not less 
than Rs. 240,360 p. a., or by an islamic Priest 
of Mosque. 
 7.3 if admission card is not received by at least 
7 days before the date of commencement of 
the examination the head of the institution 
concerned should notify the commissioner 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1663
General of Examinations accordingly. in all 
such instances, information should be provided 
as indicated below : 
 (a)  Name of Examination, 
 (b)  Name of ahadhiya School/Madrasa/
School, and the computer number 
provided to the school, 
 (c)  Name of candidate in full and address, 
 (d)  the town which is applied for to the 
examination,
 (e)  Post Office from which the application 
was posted, 
 (f)  Registration Number and date. 
8. Personnel Identification. – Every applicant should 
prove his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
on all instances he/she appears for the examination by 
producing acceptable identity documents. 
 8.1 National identity card, 
 8.2 Valid Passport, 
 8.3 Postal identity card. 
9. Issue of the Examination Results and Confirmation 
of the Result : 
 9.1 this examination consists of four papers. a 
candidate who passes in all four papers in one 
and the same sitting will be considered to have 
passed the Examination.
 9.2 however, if a candidate gets passed in 3 
subjects and fails to get through in the fourth 
subject in one and the same sitting he/she will 
be allowed referral. 
  Such a candidate should get through the referred 
subject within the subsequent two examinations 
in order to be considered to have passed in this 
certificate examination. (This will be effective 
from 2011 Examination).
  Referred candidates should apply and sit only 
for the referred subject. 
 9.3 Each of the four question papers carries 100 
marks and grades will be awarded as shown 
below : 
 Range of Marks Grade Symbol
  0   – 34 fail f
  35 – 54 ordinary Pass S
  55 – 69 credit Pass c
  70 – 100 distinction Pass d
 9.4  Release of the Results.– details of examination 
results will be posted to the relevant heads of 
institutions. 
10. Certificates.– action will be taken to issue a 
certificate to every candidate passing the examination. 
11. Re-scrutiny of Answer - scripts.– opportunity will be 
provided for the re-scrutiny of answer-scripts if requested 
within 30 days from the date of issue of examination results. 
Such request should be made through the respective heads 
of institutions, using the specimen form issued by this 
Department for this purpose. A specified fee must be paid. 
Such fee will be refunded only in instances where any 
alteration is made to the examination results. applicants 
or their representatives will not be granted permission to 
examine the answer scripts for any reason what-so-ever. 
12. all applicants are bound to act in accordance with 
the above conditions. decision of the commissioner 
General of Examinations on any matter that is not dealt 
with in this notification will be the final. 
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text of this Examination 
Notification the Sinhala text shall private. 
 W. m. n. J. pushpakumara,
 commissioner General of Examinations. 
department of Examinations, 
Pelawatta, 
Battaramulla, 
2016. 
aNNExuRE 1 
Subjects and the prescribed Syllabus for the 
examination :
there will be four question papers, of three hour 
duration each. Structure of the question papers and marks 
allocation for the questions will be according to the 
Gazette notification published on Gazette No. 1,358 of 
10th September, 2004.
firsT paper 
1. Aqeedha, Sharee’ah (Principles and Fundamentals of 
Islam) and Arabic Language.
 1.1 aqeedha - General understandings (al iiahiyath, 
annubuwath, arroohaniyyath and assam’iyyath)

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1664
 1.2 Sections of aqeedha 
   Aqeeda of Ahlussunnah Wal Jama'ath
   few other aqeeda sections such as : Jabariya, 
Kadariyya,  Murjiya, Mu’tazila and Shee'ah
 1.3 t awheedh and Shirk
   iman and Kufr 
   Riddath, Nifak
   History of revelation and compilation of the Qur'an
   Use of Al-Qur'an as a source of Law
   Sunna and history of its collection 
   utilization of Sunna as source of law
   history of hadees and the contribution of 
Muhaddis
   Details relating to Ijthihad 
   Ijma as a secondary source
   Kiyas as a secondary source 
   history of fikhu and its imams.
 1.4 arabic language :
   Writing with proper shapes of alphabets
   Writing of small Sentences
   Writing of arabic words having relation to the 
subject of   Islam 
   Writing of specific Qur'an suras, verses and 
hathees.
second  paper 
2. Al-Fiqhul Islami (Islamic Law)
 2.1 details Relating to ibadath 
   Kinds of ibathath
   thaharath
 
 2.2 Najees and its categories :
   Methods of cleaning Najees
   Water and its categories 
   Wulu, thayammam and - Procedures existing 
relating to   bathing 
 2.3 Zakath :
   Significance 
   Rules and Regulations
   collection and distribution 
   Minimizing poverty through Zakath and distribution 
of Wealth 
 2.4 assawm (fasting) :
   Significance 
   Rules and Regulations and usefulness 
 2.5 Hajj :
   Significance 
   Rules and Regulations 
   usefulness 
 2.6  Hajj - Method of Performance 
   Farlu, Wajibu, Sunnath 
   Hajj performed in addition to Farlu Hajj 
 2.7 attention and procedures in islam relating to food 
dressing and dwellings.
 
 2.8 understanding of Jihadh.
 2.9 Kurbani and methods of slaughter
 2.10 oaths and V ows.
 2.11 details relating to Muamalath :
   dignity of earning 
   Main transaction (trading)
   other transactions (eg. Borrowing, Rent)
  Wakfu, Wasiyiyath, Warasath (Public Property, 
testamentary Property, inhertited Property)
 2.12 Position of man and woman in islam :
   Marriage laws in islam and their uses
   family life in islam 
   husband and wife
   Rights and duties of parents and children 
   talaq and idhdha 
 2.13 Jinayath :
   Hudood, Kisas and Ta'zeer 
Third  paper 
3. Seera and Tarigh
 3.1 Socio-Religious position in arabian Society in the 
period before islam. 
  3.1.1 Prophet Mohamed (Sal) :
    life before the Nubuwwath
    * family lineage
    * y outh hood

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1665
    *  Noble characteristics 
    * Marriage 
    Life between Nubuwwath and Hijrath 
    * Nubuwwath 
    * Propaganda of islam and its outcomes 
    * Hijrath
    Madina life 
    * Socio-Political activities 
    * defensive wars and Peace agreements
    * completion of islam 
   Position of Sahabas and their contribution 
towards islam 
   history and Political contribution of Kulafa 
urrashidoon
   Period of rule by umaiya and abbasiya 
   history of Baitul Mukaddas
   history and contributions of Sri lankan 
Muslims 
   Contribution of Muslims to Scientific Knowledge
    history relating to the following personalities :–
    * imam Buhari (Rah)
    * Imam Shafi (Rah)
    * imam Gassali (Rah)
    * imam abdul cader Jeelani (Rah)
    * imam Saduli (Rah)
fourTh paper 
4. Aklaq (Islamic Values)
 4.1 View point of islam on aklaq
  * understanding aqhlaq
  * Relationship between iman and aqhlaq
  * Relationship between aqhlaq and ibadath 
  * Purity of mind (ikhlas)
 4.2 t aqwa 
  * Wara'u and Suhud
  * Murakaba, Muhasafa 
  * Shawq
 4.3 charity 
 *  dedication 
 *  Gratitude 
 *  Patience, tolerance, accomodating, pardoning 
 *  Politeness 
 *  appreciation of time
 *  Safeguarding organs in the body : mouth, eye, 
ear and sex  organs  
 *  Respecting others 
 *  Justice and honesty 
 *  important moral values visible among youth 
 *  harmonious living with people of other faiths 
 4.4 islamic Jurisprudence 
aNNExuRE ii 
Name of towns and their town Numbers where 
Examination centres will be Established : 
 Town  Town District 
  No. No. 
Colombo District  01
 colombo (central) 01
 Bambalapitiya 02
Gampaha District  02
 thihariya 03
 Mabola 04
 Malwana 05
 Negombo 06
 Kal-Eliya 07
Kalutara District   03
 Panadura  08
 Kalutara 09
 aluthgama 10
Galle District  04
 Galle 11
Matara District  05
 Weligama 12
 Matara 13
Tangalle District  06
 hambantota 14
Kegalle District  07
 Mawanella 15
 Warakapola 16
 Kannattota 17
Kurunegala District  08
 Kuliyapitiya 18
 Kurunegala 19
 Melsiripura 20
 Polgahawela 21
 Kekunagolla 22

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2016
1666
Puttalam District  09
 Nuraichcholai 23
 Puttalam 24
 chilaw 25
Anuradhapura District  10
 anuradhapura 26
 Kekirawa 27
 Galenbindunuwewa 28
Polonnaruwa District  11
 Kaduruwela 29
Matale District  12
 Matale 30
Kandy District   13
 Kandy 31
 Nawalapitiya 32
 deltota 33
 Gelioya 34
Nuwara Eliya District   14
 Nuwara Eliya 35
Ratnapura District  15
 Eheliyagoda 36
 Balangoda 37
Badulla District  16
 Badulla 38
 Welimada 39
Monaragala District  17
 Bibila 40
Ampara District  18
 akkaraipattu 41
 Pottuvil 42
 Kalmunai 43
 Sammanthurai 44
 irakkamam 45
 Nintavur 46
 oluvil 47
Batticaloa District  19
 Kattankudy 48
 Eravur 49
 Valachchenai 50
Trincomalee District  20
 Mutur 51
 Kinniya 52
 t rincomalee 53
Vavuniya District  21
 Vavuniya 54
Mannar District  22
 Mannar 55
Mullaitivue District  23
 Mullaitivu 56
Kilinochchi District  24
 Kilinochchi 57
Jaffna District  25
 Jaffna 58
07-1132
 Town  Town District 
  No. No.
 Town  Town District 
  No. No.
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.