

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1942$23 - 2015 fkdjeïn¾ ui 26 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'11'26
No. 1942/23  -  THURSDAY,  NOVEMBER 26,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary are published separately.
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”),
the Institute has adopted the Changes of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards with effect from 01 st January 2015, published
herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Standard shall be
effective for financial statements covering period commencing on or after the first day of January Two Thousand Fifteen.
Earlier application is permitted.
By order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
Secretary.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
26
th November, 2015
1A - PG 2708 (2015/11)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
2A
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards changes with effect from 01st January 2015
CONTENTS
[1] Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements
[2] SLFRS 1 - First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs)
[3] SLFRS 2 - Share-based Payment
[4] SLFRS 3 - Business Combinations
[5] SLFRS 4 - Insurance Contracts
[6] SLFRS 5 - Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
[7] SLFRS 6 - Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources
[8] SLFRS 7 - Financial Instruments: Disclosure
[9] SLFRS 8 - Operating Segments
[10] SLFRS 10 - Consolidated Financial Statements
[11] SLFRS 11 - Joint Arrangements
[12] SLFRS 12 - Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
[13] SLFRS 13 - Fair Value Measurement
[14] LKAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements
[15] LKAS 2 - Inventories
[16] LKAS 7 - Statement of Cash Flows
[17] LKAS 8 - Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
[18] LKAS 10 - Events after the Reporting Period
[19] LKAS 11 - Construction Contracts
[20] LKAS 12 - Income Taxes
[21] LKAS 16 - Property, Plant & Equipment
[22] LKAS 17 - Leases
[23] LKAS 18 - Revenue
[24] LKAS 19 - Employee Benefits
[25] LKAS 20 - Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
3A
[26] LKAS 21 - The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
[27] LKAS 23 - Borrowing Costs
[28] LKAS 24 - Related Party Disclosures
[29] LKAS 26 - Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans
[30] LKAS 27 - Separate Financial Statements
[31] LKAS 28 - Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
[32] LKAS 29 - Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies
[33] LKAS 32 - Financial Instruments: Presentation
[34] LKAS 33 - Earnings per Share
[35] LKAS 34 - Interim Financial Reporting
[36] LKAS 36 - Impairment of Assets
[37] LKAS 37 - Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
[38] LKAS 38 - Intangible Assets
[39] LKAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
[40] LKAS 40 - Investment Property
[41] LKAS 41 - Agriculture

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
4A
The Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting
No Changes
LKAS 1 -  Presentation of Financial Statements
Para 69 (d) it does not have a right at the reporting date to defer settlement of the liability by the transfer of
cash or other assets for at least twelve months after the reporting period (see paragraph 73). Terms
of a liability that could, at the option of the counterparty, result in its settlement by the issue of
equity instruments do not affect its classification.
LKAS 2 -  Inventories
No Changes
LKAS 7 -  Statement of Cash Flow
No Changes
LKAS 8 -  Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
No Changes
LKAS 10 -  Events after the Reporting Period
No Changes
LKAS 11 -  Construction Contracts
No Changes
LKAS 12 -  Income Taxes
No Changes
LKAS 16 -  Property, Plant and Equipment
35 When an item of property, plant and equipment is revalued, 
the carrying amount of that asset is
adjusted to the revalued amount. At the date of the revaluation, the asset is treated in one of the
following ways:
(a) the gross carrying amount is adjusted in a manner that is consistent with the revaluation of the
carrying amount of the asset. For example, the gross carrying amount may be restated by

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
5A
reference to observable market data or it may be restated proportionately to the change in the
carrying amount. The accumulated depreciation at the date of the revaluation is adjusted to
equal the difference between the gross carrying amount and the carrying amount of the asset
after taking into account accumulated impairment losses; or
(b) the accumulated depreciation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
The amount of the adjustment of accumulated depreciation forms part of the increase or decrease in
carrying amount that is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 39 and 40.
80A Paragraph 35 was amended by Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014.  An entity shall apply that
amendment to all revaluations recognised in annual periods beginning on or after the date of initial
application of that amendment and in the immediately preceding annual period. An entity may also
present adjusted comparative information for any earlier periods presented, but it is not required to
do so. If an entity presents unadjusted comparative information for any earlier periods, it shall
clearly identify the information that has not been adjusted, state that it has been presented on a
different basis and explain that basis.
81H Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, issued in September 2014,   amended paragraph 35 and
added paragraph 80A. An entity shall apply that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after
1st July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier
period it shall disclose that fact.
LKAS 17 -  Leases
No Changes
LKAS 18 -  Revenue
No Changes
LKAS 19 -  Employee Benefits
Para 93 Contributions from employees or third parties set out in the formal terms of the plan either reduce
service cost (if they are linked to service), or affect remeasurements of the net defined benefit
liability (asset) (if they are not linked to service). An example of contributions that are not linked
to service is when the contributions are required to reduce a deficit arising from losses on plan
assets or from actuarial losses. If contributions from employees or third parties are linked to
service, those contributions reduce the service cost as follows:
(a) if the amount of the contributions is dependent on the number of years of service, an entity
shall attribute the contributions to periods of service using the same attribution method
required by paragraph 70 for the gross benefit (ie either using the plan’s contribution formula
or on a straight-line basis); or
(b) if the amount of the contributions is independent of the number of years of service, the entity
is permitted to recognise such contributions as a reduction of the service cost in the period

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
6A
in which the related service is rendered. Examples of contributions that are independent of the
number of years of service include those that are a fixed percentage of the employee’s salary,
a fixed amount throughout the service period or dependent on the employee’s age.
Paragraph A1 provides related application guidance.
94 For contributions from employees or third parties that are attributed to periods of service in
accordance with paragraph 93(a), changes in the contributions result in:
(a) current and past service cost (if those changes are not set out in the formal terms of a plan
and do not arise from a constructive obligation); or
(b) actuarial gains and losses (if those changes are set out in the formal terms of a plan, or arise
from a constructive obligation).
175 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (Amendments to LKAS 19), issued in September
2014, amended paragraphs 93–94. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods
beginning on or after 1 July 2014 retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies,
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors . Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies
those amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
7A
Appendix A
Application Guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the SLFRS. It describes the application of paragraphs 92-93 and has the same authority 
as the other parts of the SLFRS. 
A1
 The accounting requirements for contributions from employees or third parties are illustrated in the diagram below.
Contribution from employees or third parties
(1)
Reduce service
cost by being
attributed to
periods of ser-
vice
(paragraph 
93(a))
Reduce service
cost in the period
in which the
related service is
rendered
(paragraph
93(b))
After
remeasurements
(paragraph 93)
Reduce service
cost upon
payment to the
plan (paragraph
92)
Dependent on the
number of years of
services
Independent of the
number of years of
service
Not linked to service
(for example, reduce a
deficit)
Linked to service
Discretionary
Set out in the formal terms of the plan (or arise 
from a constructive obligation that goes
beyond those terms)
(1) This dotted arrow means that an entity is permitted to choose either accounting.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
8A
LKAS 20 -  Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance
No Changes
LKAS 21 -  The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
No Changes
LKAS 23 -  Borrowing Costs
No Changes
LKAS 24 -  Related Party Disclosures
9 (b) (viii) The entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management
personnel services to the reporting entity or to the parent of the reporting entity.
17A If an entity obtains key management personnel services from another  entity  (the
‘management entity’), the entity is not required to apply the requirements in paragraph 17
to the compensation paid or payable by the management entity to the management entity’s
employees or directors.
18A Amounts incurred by the entity for the provision of key management personnel services that
are provided by a separate management entity shall be disclosed.
28C Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, issued in September 2014, amended paragraph 9 and added
paragraphs 17A and 18A. An entity shall apply that amendment for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier
period it shall disclose that fact.
LKAS 26 -  Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans
No Changes
LKAS 27 -  Separate Financial Statements
No Changes
LKAS 28 - Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
No Changes
LKAS 29 - Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies
No Changes

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
9A
LKAS 32 -  Financial Instruments: Presentation
No Changes
LKAS 33 -  Earnings per Share
No Changes
LKAS 34 -  Interim Financial Reporting
No Changes
LKAS 36 -  Impairment of Assets
No Changes
LKAS 37 -  Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
5 (f) contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business combination (see SLFRS 3 Business
Combinations ).
99 Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014  issued in September 2014, amended paragraph 5 as a
consequential amendment derived from the amendment to SLFRS 3. An entity shall apply that
amendment prospectively to business combinations to which the amendment to SLFRS 3 applies.
LKAS 38 -  Intangible Assets
80 When an intangible asset is revalued, the carrying amount of that asset is adjusted to the revalued
amount. At the date of the revaluation, the asset is treated in one of the following ways:
(a) the gross carrying amount is adjusted in a manner that is consistent with the revaluation of the
carrying amount of the asset. For example, the gross carrying amount may be restated by
reference to observable market data or it may be restated proportionately to the change in the
carrying amount. The accumulated amortisation at the date of the revaluation is adjusted to
equal the difference between the gross carrying amount and the carrying amount of the asset
after taking into account accumulated impairment losses; or
(b) the accumulated amortisation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
The amount of the adjustment of accumulated amortisation forms part of the increase or decrease in
the carrying amount that is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 85 and 86.
130H Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 , issued in September 2014, amended paragraph 80. An entity
shall apply that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application
is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
10A
130I An entity shall apply the amendment made by Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 to all
revaluations recognised in annual periods beginning on or after the date of initial application of that
amendment and in the immediately preceding annual period. An entity may also present adjusted
comparative information for any earlier periods presented, but it is not required to do so. If an
entity presents unadjusted comparative information for any earlier periods, it shall clearly identify
the information that has not been adjusted, state that it has been presented on a different basis and
explain that basis.
LKAS 39 -  Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
9 (aa) It is contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business combination to which SLFRS 3
Business Combinations applies.
108F Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 , issued in September 2014, amended paragraph 9 as a
consequential amendment derived from the amendment to SLFRS 3. An entity shall apply that
amendment prospectively to business combinations to which the amendment to SLFRS 3 applies.
AG34 As a consequence of the principle in paragraph 14, an entity recognises all of its contractual rights
and obligations under derivatives in its statement of financial position as assets and liabilities,
respectively, except for derivatives that prevent a transfer of financial assets from being accounted
for as a sale (see paragraph AG49). If a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for
derecognition, the transferee does not recognise the transferred asset as its asset (see paragraph
AG50).
AG35 The following are examples of applying the principle in paragraph 14:
(a) unconditional receivables and payables are recognised as assets or liabilities when the entity
becomes a party to the contract and, as a consequence, has a legal right to receive or a legal
obligation to pay cash.
(b) assets to be acquired and liabilities to be incurred as a result of a firm commitment to
purchase or sell goods or services are generally not recognised until at least one of the
parties has performed under the agreement. For example, an entity that receives a firm order
does not generally recognise an asset (and the entity that places the order does not recognise
a liability) at the time of the commitment but, rather, delays recognition until the ordered
goods or services have been shipped, delivered or rendered. If a firm commitment to buy or
sell non-financial items is within the scope of this Standard under paragraphs 5–7, its net fair
value is recognised as an asset or liability on the commitment date (see (c) below). In
addition, if a previously unrecognised firm commitment is designated as a hedged item in a
fair value hedge, any change in the net fair value attributable to the hedged risk is recognised
as an asset or liability after the inception of the hedge (see paragraphs 93 and 94).
(c) a forward contract that is within the scope of this Standard (see paragraphs 2–7) is recognised
as an asset or a liability on the commitment date, rather than on the date on which settlement
takes place. When an entity becomes a party to a forward contract, the fair values of the right
and obligation are often equal, so that the net fair value of the forward is zero. If the net fair
value of the right and obligation is not zero, the contract is recognised as an asset or liability.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
11A
(d) option contracts that are within the scope of this Standard (see paragraphs 2–7) are
recognised as assets or liabilities when the holder or writer becomes a party to the contract.
(e) planned future transactions, no matter how likely, are not assets and liabilities because the
entity has not become a party to a contract.
LKAS 40 - Investment Property
Para 14A Judgement is also needed to determine whether the acquisition of investment property is
the acquisition of an asset or a group of assets or a business combination within the scope of
SLFRS 3 Business Combinations . Reference should be made to SLFRS 3 to determine
whether it is a business combination. The discussion in paragraphs 7–14 of this Standard
relates to whether or not property is owner-occupied property or investment property and
not to determining whether or not the acquisition of property is a business combination as
defined in SLFRS 3. Determining whether a specific transaction meets the definition of a
business combination as defined in SLFRS 3 and includes an investment property as defined
in this Standard requires the separate application of both Standards.
84A Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 issued in September 2014 added paragraph 14A and a
heading before paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively for
acquisitions of investment property from the beginning of the first period for which it
adopts that amendment. Consequently, accounting for acquisitions of investment property in
prior periods shall not be adjusted. However, an entity may choose to apply the amendment
to individual acquisitions of investment property that occurred prior to the beginning of the
first annual period occurring on or after the effective date if, and only if, information needed
to apply the amendment to those earlier transactions is available to the entity.
85D Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014  issued in September 2014 added headings before paragraph
6 and after paragraph 84 and added paragraphs 14A and 84A. An entity shall apply those amendments
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity
applies those amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.
LKAS 41 -  Agriculture
No Changes
SLFRS 1 -  First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
B7 (b) the requirements in paragraphs 23 and B96  for accounting for changes in the parent’s ownership
interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control; and

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
12A
SLFRS 2 -  Share-based Payment
63B Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 , issued in September 2014, amended paragraphs 15 and 19.
In Appendix A, the definitions of ‘vesting conditions’ and ‘market condition’ were amended and the
definitions of ‘performance condition’ and ‘ service condition ’ were added. An entity shall
prospectively apply that amendment to share-based payment transactions for which the grant date is
on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an
earlier period it shall disclose that fact.
SLFRS 2 Appendix A
market pe rformance condition upon which the exercise price, vesting or exercisability of an equity instrument
condition depends that is related to the market price (or value) of the entity’s equity instruments (or the equity
instruments of another entity in the same group), such as:
(a)  attaining a specified share price or a specified amount of intrinsic value of a share option; or
(b) achieving a specified target that is based on the market price (or value) of the entity’s equity
instruments (or the equity instruments of another entity in the same group) relative to an index
of market prices of equity instruments of other entities.
A market condition requires the counterparty to complete a specified period of service (ie a service
condition); the service requirement can be explicit or implicit.
performance A vesting condition that requires:
condition
(a) the counterparty to complete a specified period of service (ie a service condition ); the service
requirement can be explicit or implicit; and
(b) specified performance target(s) to be met while the counterparty is rendering the service required
in (a).
The period of achieving the performance target(s):
(a) shall not extend beyond the end of the service period; and
(b) may start before the service period on the condition that the commencement date of the
performance target is not substantially before the commencement of the service period.
A performance target is defined by reference to :
(a) the entity’s own operations (or activities) or the operations or activities of another entity in the
same group (ie a non-market condition); or

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
13A
(b) the price  (or value)  of  the entity’s equity instruments or the equity instruments of another entity
in the same group (including shares and share options) (ie a market condition).
A performance target might relate either to the performance of the entity as a whole or to some part of
the entity (or part of the group), such as a division or an individual employee.
service A vesting condition that requires the counterparty to complete a specified period of service during
condition which  services are provided to the entity. If the counterparty, regardless of the reason, ceases to provide
service during the vesting period , it has failed to satisfy the condition. A service condition does not
require a performance target to be met.
vesting A condition that determines whether the entity receives the services that entitle the counterparty to
conditions  receive cash, other assets or equity instruments of the entity, under a share-based payment arrangement.
A vesting condition is either a service condition or a performance condition.
SLFRS 3 -  Business Combinations
2 (a) the accounting for the formation of a joint arrangement in the financial statements of the joint arrangement
itself.
Para 40 The acquirer shall classify an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the definition of a
financial instrument as a financial liability or as equity on the basis of the definitions of an equity
instrument and a financial liability in paragraph 11 of LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation .
The acquirer shall classify as an asset a right to the return of previously transferred consideration if
specified conditions are met. Paragraph 58 provides guidance on the subsequent accounting for contingent
consideration.
 Para 58 (b) Other contingent consideration that:
(i) is within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date and changes
in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss in accordance with that SLFRS.
(ii) is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date and
changes in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss.
64I Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 ,  issued in September 2014, amended paragraphs 40 and 58 and
added paragraph 67A and its related heading. An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively to
business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is
permitted. An entity may apply the amendment earlier provided that SLFRS 9 and LKAS 37 (both as
amended by Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 have also been applied. If an entity applies that
amendment earlier it shall disclose that fact.
Para 64J Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014  issued in September 2014 amended paragraph 2(a). An entity
shall apply that amendment prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier
application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that
fact.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
14A
SLFRS 4 -  Insurance Contracts
No changes
SLFRS 5 -  Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
33 (b) (iv) the related income tax expense as required by paragraph 81(h) of LKAS 12.
SLFRS 6 -  Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources
No changes
SLFRS 7 -  Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Appendix B
No Changes
SLFRS 8 -  Operating Segments
22 (aa) the judgements made by management in applying the aggregation criteria in paragraph 12. This includes
a brief description of the operating segments that have been aggregated in this way and the economic
indicators that have been assessed in determining that the aggregated operating segments share similar
economic characteristics; and
28 (c) the total of the reportable segments’ assets to the entity’s assets if the segment assets are reported in
accordance with paragraph 23.
Para 36C Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 ,  issued in September 2014, amended paragraphs 22 and 28. An
entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier
application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that
fact.
SLFRS 10 -  Consolidated Financial Statements
No changes
SLFRS 11 -  Joint Arrangements
No changes
SLFRS 12 -  Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
No changes

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2015
15A
SLFRS 13 -  Fair Value Measurement
52 The exception in paragraph 48 applies only to financial assets, financial liabilities and other contracts
within the scope of LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or SLFRS 9
Financial Instruments . The references to financial assets and financial liabilities in paragraphs 48–51
and 53–56 should be read as applying to all contracts within the scope of, and accounted for in accordance
with, LKAS 39 or SLFRS 9, regardless of whether they meet the definitions of financial assets or
financial liabilities in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation .
SLFRS 13 – Appendix C
C4 Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 issued in September 2014, amended paragraph 52. An entity
shall apply that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. An entity shall apply
that amendment prospectively from the beginning of the annual period in which SLFRS 13 was initially
applied. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier period it shall
disclose that fact.
12 - 416
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.