

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2067
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2066
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"037 – 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 15 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'09'15
No. 2,037 –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER  15, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th october, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd september, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2063-b 81207- 5,403 (09/2017)
Note.–    (i) municipal councils (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of september 08, 2017.
   (ii) Urban councils (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of september 08, 2017.
   (iii) Pradeshiya sabha (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of september 08, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2064
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2065
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2066
Posts – vacant
ThE fINANCE COmmISSION 
Invitation of Applications from those who 
processed the Qualifications stated below for the 
Posts of four Drivers (PL-III) for the finance 
Commission
aPPLicatioNs are invited for selection for the posts 
of drivers (PL-iii) for the finance commission. duly 
completed applications using the specimen format attached 
to this notice should be sent to the secretary, finance 
commission, No. 48, Vajira Road, colombo 04 on or 
before 30.09.2017. it is required to mention "Requirement 
of drivers (PL-iii)" on top of the left side of the envelope. 
the applications received after closing date will not be 
entertained. 
01. Method of Requirement.– those who have 
completed the required qualifications will be recruited the 
vacant posts on the basis of results of the interview and 
professional test. 
02. Conditions of employing. – on permanent and 
pensionable basis subject to the Government decisions to 
be taken from time to time. 
03. Salary Scale.– monthly salary scale of the PL-iii 
as per the Public administration circular 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016 (PL-3-2016 - Rs. 25,790 -10x270 - 10x300 - 
10x330 - 12x350 - Rs. 38,990).
04. educational Qualifications.– should pass G. c. E. 
(o/L) not more than two sittings with credit passes for six 
subjects including sinhala/tamil languages. 
05. Professional Qualifications : 
 (i) should process a valid driving license issued 
by Commissioner General of Motor Traffic for 
personal motor car of station wagon less than 
gross weight of 24 tar weight (Prior to the date 
of recruitment at least the applicant should have  
c1 and c2 class driving license or b class 
driving license under the new system).
 (ii) Should have a proper knowledge on Traffic 
ordinance. 
06. experience.– the experience of 03 years in driving 
(This should be proved by certificates). 
07. Physical Qualifications.– maximum height should 
be 05 feet.
08. Age limit.– should be not less than 18 years and not 
more than 45 years as at 30.09.2017.
09. Other Qualifications :
 (a) should be a sri Lankan citizen, 
 (b) should have a good character and good health 
conditions,
 (c) Should complete all the required qualifications on 
or before the date of calling applications, by every 
applicant.
10. Method of Requirement.– The qualified application 
will be recruited for the posts of drivers (PL-iii) adhering 
strictly to the marks obtained at the interview to be held 
with the approved of the director General of combined 
service and the professional test to be held on the same 
day. 
11. it is required to furnish accurate information in the 
application. if any applicant is found with false information, 
his appointment can be cancelled at any moment and be 
dismissed from the Public service accordingly. 
12. at the interview, the applicants should provide their 
identity card issued by the department of Registration of 
Persons or valid passport to prove their identity. 
13. the Establishment code, procedures of the Public 
service commission and circulars relating to Public 
services and internal circulars of the finance commission 
issued from time to time will be applied. 
14. if particular matter is not mentioned here, such 
matters will be determined by the Public service 
commission. all applicants will be bound to perform as 
per the common laws and regulation stated in this notice. 
 a. t. m. U. d. b. 
Tennakoon, 
 secretary. 
finance commission, 
18th august, 2017. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2067
fiNaNcE commissioN 
applicaTion for requiremenT of Drivers (pl-iii)
 For office use 
01.  Name in full :––––––––––––.
02.  Nid No. :––––––––––––.
03.  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
04.  Gender :––––––––––––.
05.  date of birth :––––––––––––.
06.  No. of driving License and date :––––––––––––.
07.  telephone No. (mobile/Land) :––––––––––––.
08.  civil status :––––––––––––.
09.  Residing district :––––––––––––.
10.  Educational Qualifications : 
 details of G. c. E (o/L) :
Subject Grade Year Subject Grade Year
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
11. Experience relating to the Post :––––––––––––.
12.  Other Qualifications :––––––––––––.
13. are you convicted by a court for any offence at any day ? :––––––––––––.
14. statement of the applicant :––––––––––––.
i certify hereby that the information furnished by me in this application is true and accurate on my knowledge. 
If I am found disqualified for this post, I accept that I will be subject to dismiss from the post without any compensation, 
before or after the recruitment. 
  ––––––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
09–287
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION fOR RECRuITmENT TO GRADE III Of SRI LANkA 
GOvERNmENT LIbRARIANS' SERvICE - 2017
accoRdiNG to the provisions of the sri Lanka Government Librarians' service minute published in the Gazette 
extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of No. 2024/35 dated 21.06.2017, applications are 
hereby called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to posts in 
Grade iii of sri Lanka Government Librarians' service. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2068
2.0 this examination shall be held in colombo in 
month of december 2017 by the commissioner General 
of Examinations and the applicants who have satisfied 
qualifications based on the merit on the results of this 
examination shall be selected for appointment to the posts 
in Grade iii of sri Lanka Government Librarians' service. 
3.0 Number of applicants appointed and the effective 
date of appointment will be determined by the director 
General of combined services. the appointing authority 
reserves the right to fill a certain number of vacancies or 
not to fill any of the vacancies. 
4.0 Salary.– according to the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, salary segment 
applicable to Grade iii of sri Lanka Government 
Librarians' service is mN-3-2016 and the monthly salary 
scale is Rs. 31,040 -10x445 -11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 
- Rs. 57,550 and you are entitled to the said salary from 
01.01.2020. salaries shall be paid from the effective date 
of the appointment as per the provisions of schedule ii of 
the above circular. 
5.0  this post is permanent and pensionable. the 
pension and the pension scheme entitled to the officers 
appointed to Grade iii of sri Lanka Librarians' service 
shall be determined in accordance with the policy decision 
made by the Government in future. 
6.0 Service Conditions : 
 I. An officer appointed to the Grade III of Sri Lanka 
Librarians' service on the results of the open 
competitive Examination shall be subjected to 
a probation period of three (03) years from the 
date of appointment. If an officer passes the First 
Efficiency Bar Examination conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and the 
Head of the Department is satisfied to the effect 
that his/her work, conduct and attendance are 
satisfactory, it shall be informed to the director 
General of combined services at the end of three 
years and the director General of combined 
Services shall confirm the officer in the post, of 
he is also satisfied on the same. 
 II. The officer shall compulsorily serve at the service 
station to which he/she is appointed at first for 
three years. However, the appointing authority 
reserves the right to transfer any officer before 
the lapse of said period, on special reasons as 
determined by the same, if it is required to make 
such transfer. 
 III. The officer is required to obtain the proficiency 
in the prescribed official language before the 
lapse of 05 years from the date of appointment 
as per the Public administration circular No. 
01/2014.
7.0 Qualifications.– applicants are required to possess 
following qualifications for recruitment to posts in Grade 
iii of sri Lanka Government Librarians' service : 
 (a) shall be a citizen of sri Lanka, 
 (b) applicants shall be of excellent character, 
 (c) shall be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 45 years of age as at the closing date of 
applications :
Note :
 (i) accordingly applicants who have date of 
birth on or after 16.10.1972 and on or before 
16.10.1999 are eligible to apply for the 
examination. 
 (ii) 45 years shall be considered as the maximum 
age limit strictly for the purpose of this 
examination. age limit shall be considered as 
30 on next examination terms. 
 (d) Educational Qualifications : 
 i. shall have passed the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination with six (06) subjects 
including credit passes for sinhala/t amil/
English and mathematics and two other 
subjects at one sitting ; 
  and
 ii. shall have passed the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination at one sitting with all subjects 
(Except General Knowledge and General 
English) at one sitting. (It is sufficient to 
have passed in 3 subjects at one sitting 
under the old syllabus).
 (e) Professional Qualifications : 
 i. shall have completed the three-year 
diploma in Library science from at a 
university recognized by the University 
Grant commission ; 
  or
 ii. shall have completed the three-year 
diploma in Library science offered by sri 
Lanka Library association. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2069
 III. Shall have acquired a higher qualifications in Library Science than the (i) and (ii) qualifications above. 
(Such qualifications shall be determined by the Director General of Combined Services communicating 
with the authorities of the relevant universities and sri Lanka Library association).
Note : 
 (i) It is compulsory that all the applicants should satisfy all the relevant qualifications on or before the closing 
date of the application. 
 (ii) Every applicant shall be physically and mentally fit in every aspect to perform the duties of the post and to 
serve in any part of sri Lanka. 
8.0 Scheme of examination.– this examination shall consist of three question papers. the examination shall be held in 
sinhala, tamil and English media and the applicants will not be allowed to change the medium of examination selected 
by them :
   Subjects Marks Duration Pass mark
  (i) Library science 100 03 hrs. 40%
  (ii) intelligence test 100 01 hr. 40%
  (iii) General Knowledge 100 01 hr.  40%
the syllabus prescribed for the above subjects is as follows :–
 8.1  (01)  Library Science : 
  (1)  Libraries and Librarianship
   Libraries and history of libraries, main libraries of the modern and ancient world
   origin and evolution of the art of writing and other written media including books. 
   Origin of printing technology, expansion and the influence of the printing technology on libraries 
and the subject of social development. 
   Types of libraries :
   special libraries
   structure, functions and services of libraries in the institutions such as Government ministries, 
departments and co-operations and research libraries, 
   academic Libraries,
   structure, functions and services of libraries in universities and other higher educational 
institutions, 
   school libraries
   Public libraries
   Libraries in pirivenas, temples and libraries in other religious institutions,
   Library committees - Structure, necessity, significance and role,
   Organizations of professionals in relation to field of library science and functions of such 
organizations - National and international levels (sri Lanka, india, america, Great britain),
   buildings of libraries - Planning and other aspects to be considered.
   * Establishments of a library in an existing building, organization of improvement.
   maintenance, conservation and preservation of library equipment,
   disasters and disaster management. 
  (2) Organization of Information and knowledge
   Objectives and benefits of book classification
   Main classification methods applied in the libraries in Sri Lanka : Dewey decimal classification, 
universal decimal classification, 
   objectives of cataloguing, anglo-american cataloging Rules (aacR),
   bibliographical description,
   compilation of entries using aacR-2

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2070
  (3) Library Resources and Information Services 
   Various library resources
   improving collections, policies for improving collections and importance of the same, 
   acquisition, process including selection of library resources : 
 (i) Principals and sources of the selection of library resources ; 
 (ii) t echnological services including acquisition process, processing ;
 (iii) stock taking and weeding process. 
   Publishing, copyright and censorship
   current awareness services
   a wareness programme for readers
   Public relations and publicity for libraries
  (4) Information Communication Technology 
   Application of computer technology in libraries, significance and productivity of information 
technology in library activities and functions. 
  * A question paper consisting of structured essay type questions covering above 4 fields. All the 
questions are compulsory, duration is 03 hours. 
 8.2 (02)  Intelligence Test : 
   This paper will be designed to assess the applicant's capacity for comprehension, quantification 
and perception of time-space relations by measuring applicant's inference and responses to 
problems presented in verbal, numerical and spatial context. 
 
  * a  question paper consisting of 50 multiple choice questions and questions for short answers. 
duration is 1 hour. all the questions are compulsory.
 * 8.3 (03)  General knowledge : 
   this paper will be designed to assess the applicants awareness and understanding of social, 
cultural, educational, political, economic and any other relating factors operating at national, 
regional and global environment or organizations as well as our society and also to assess 
general knowledge of applicants in Library Science and library field. 
  * a  question paper consisting of 50 multiple choice questions and questions for short answers. all 
the questions are compulsory. duration is 1 hour. 
(The question papers on Intelligence and General Knowledge are relevant to the field III under the categorization 
of examinations for recruitment of the department of Examinations)
Applicants should score a minimum of forty percent (40%) marks for each paper to become qualified for an 
appointment. Appointments will be made strictly following the order of marks so as to fill the number of vacancies 
reserved for open competitive examination.
9.0 examination Fees.- Examination fee is Rs. 600. This fee can be paid to any post office or sub post office under 
the head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt obtained in the name of applicant 
should be affixed in the relevant cage of the application so as not to be detached. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the receipt for future reference). it would be kindly informed that any fee is not charged in addition to the said exam fee. 
Under no circumstances the examination fee will be refunded and money orders and stamps are accepted. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2071
10.0 Applications.- applications should be prepared in 
the following manner using paper of size a4 (21x29cm) 
(normal halfsheets).
 (a) Cages from 1 to 3.5 should appear on the first 
side of the page.
 (b) cages from 4 onwards should appear on the 
other pages using both sides of the sheet of 
paper and the application should be filled in the 
same language applicant expects to sit for the 
exam. 
 (c) the title of the examination appearing in 
the specimen should be indicated in English 
language as well, on both sinhala and tamil 
application forms. 
applications which are not prepared in accordance 
with the specimen form and which are incomplete and not 
perfected accurately shall be rejected without any notice. 
applications of those who haven't paid the examination fee 
on or before the due date shall also be rejected. applicants 
should be responsible for any loss incurred by them due 
to incomplete applications. it would be advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the completed application form and the 
receipt. it is the responsibility of the applicant to make sure 
that the application form perfected by him/herself complies 
with the specimen given in the examination notice and 
the prescribed examination fee has been paid and the 
particulars are included in the application and the receipt is 
affixed. If otherwise the application may be rejected. 
 10.1 all applicants who are within the age limit 
indicated in the notification have forwarded the 
applications along with the receipt obtained by 
paying the prescribed examination fees on or 
before the closing date of applications shall be 
issued admission cards, by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, on the presumption 
that only those who possess qualifications as 
indicated in the Gazette Notification and within 
the range of age mentioned in the notification 
have forwarded their applications. issuance 
of an admission card to a applicant to sit for 
the competitive examination does not mean 
to have accepted that he/she possesses all the 
qualifications to sit for this examination or for 
this post. if it was found at the interview that 
the applicant does not possess the required 
qualifications, his or her candidature shall be 
cancelled. 
 10.2 the words "Open Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka 
Government Librarians' Service - 2017" 
should be written on the top left-hand corner of 
the envelope in which the application is enclosed. 
 10.3 applicant's signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of 
a Government school, Justice of the Peace, 
commissioner for oaths, Notary Public, 
Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, 
an officer holding a gazetted post in the Police 
Service or an Officer holding a permanent post 
in the Public service whose annual salary is                   
Rs. 240,360 or above.
 10.4  applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post to reach the following address on 
or before 16th october, 2017 :
  commissioner General of Examinations,
  organization and overseas Examinations 
branch,
  department of Examinations, sri Lanka, 
  P. o. box 1503, colombo.
11.0 Sitting for the examination.-  A notification 
shall be published in newspapers by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka as soon as the admission cards 
are issued to the applicants. if the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such notification, steps 
should be taken to notify the organization and overseas 
Examinations branch of the department of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka in the manner specified in the advertisement. 
When making such notice the name of the examination, 
full name of the applicant, national identity card number 
and address shall be indicated accurately. in case of 
applicants outside colombo, it would be advisable to send 
a letter of request including the said details indicating a 
fax number to which a copy of the admission card can be 
obtained promptly to the fax number mentioned in the 
advertisement. further, it would be advisable to keep a copy 
of the completed application form and the receipt obtained 
by payment of examination fee/the receipt relevant to the 
examination fee, if the payment of examination fee is 
applicable and receipt of registration of the application 
to prove any particular requested by the department of 
Examinations. Every applicant shall furnish the admission 
card in which his/her signature has been attested to the 
supervisor of the examination on the first day on which he/
she sit for the examination. 
12.0 examination Results.- the results sheet prepared 
on the order of aggregate of marks of the applicants who 
secure not less than 40% for each subject as per Para. 
8.3 of this notification shall be submitted to the Director 
General of combined services, ministry of Public 
administration and management. action shall be taken 
by the department of Examinations to send the results 
to all the applicants personally or publish the results in 
the website of the department of Examinations, sri Lanka 
www.results.exams.gov.lk.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2072
13.0 applicants should furnish only one of the following documents to the supervisor of examination to prove 
their identity :-
 (i) National identity card issued by the department for Registration of Persons, 
 (ii) a  valid passport. 
14.0 Penalty for Furnishing False Information.- the applicant should be very careful to include correct particulars 
in the application. if it is found that any applicant is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this examination, 
his/her candidature can be cancelled at any time before during or after the examination. further, if it is found that any 
information furnished by a applicant is false, he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the Public service. 
15.0 applicants shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
for the purpose of conducting examinations and issuing results. they are liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations. 
16.0 This examination notification will be published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the sinhala text shall prevail. any matter not referred to herein will be decided by director 
General of combined services. all applicants are bound to comply with the general examination rules published in this 
Gazette. 
 K. V . P. m. J. gamage,
 director General of combined services,
 ministry of Public administration and management. 
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence square, 
colombo 07,
31st of august, 2017. 
(For office use only)
Specimen Application form 
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR REcRUitmENt to GRadE iii of sRi LaNKa GoVERNmENt 
LibRaRiaNs' sERVicE - 2017
Language medium of Examination : 
sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the correct number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) eg. : GUNaWaRdHaNa, m. G. b. s. K.
 1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals)  :––––––––––––.
 1.3 Name in full (in sinhala/tamil)  :––––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Permanent address (in English block capitals)  :––––––––––––.
 2.2 Permanent address (in sinhala/tamil)  :––––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in English block capitals)  :––––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 sex : male - 0   female - 1
  (indicate relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 National identity card No. : 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2073
 3.3 date of birth :  y ear  month date
 3.4 age as at 16.10.2017 : y ears  months  days
 3.5 t elephone No. : 
4.0  Educational Qualifications : 
 4.1 Particulars of G. c. E. (o/L) Examination :––––––––––––.
  (i) y ear and month of the Examination :––––––––––––.
  (ii) index Number of applicant :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Results : 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 4.2 Particulars of G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
  (i) y ear and month of the Examination :––––––––––––.
  (ii) index Number of applicant :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Results : 
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
 4.3 Particulars of three year diploma/the qualification in relation to Library Science obtained by the applicant to sit 
for the examination as per Para 7.0(e) of the examination notification : 
 (i) Name of the University :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) degree :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) year of Examination :–––––––––––––.
5.0  Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
6.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court of law ? (indicate P in the relevant cage) (indicate particulars, 
if the answer is yes) :
 ..................................................................   y es  No
 ..................................................................       
7.0  Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee : 
 (i) Office to which the payment was made :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) amount :–––––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
(Please keep a photocopy with the applicant)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2074
8.0  Applicant's Certificate :
 (i) i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i agree to suffer any loss that may cause as a result of incompleteness of sections and/or provision 
of erroneous information. I also state that all sections herein have been correctly filled. 
 (ii) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification before 
appointment and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. 
 (iii) i hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations for the 
purpose of holding this examination. 
 (iv) i shall not change any information mentioned herein subsequently. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––––.
9.0  attestation of applicant's signature : 
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss .................................. who submits this application is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ................................. and further the officer has paid the 
prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the applications. 
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting the signature. 
date :–––––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the signature :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
09-421
–––––––––––––––––––
LImITED COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR RECRuITmENT TO GRADE III Of 
SRI LANkA GOvERNmENT LIbRARIANS' 
SERvICE - 2017
accoRdiNG to the provisions of the sri Lanka 
Government Librarians' service minute published in 
the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic socialist 
Republic of sri Lanka of No. 2024/35 dated 21.06.2017, 
the limited competitive examination for recruitment to 
Grade iii of sri Lanka Government Librarians' service 
shall be held in colombo in the month of december 2017.
2.0 The applicants who have satisfied qualifications 
based on the merit on the results of this examination will 
be selected for appointent to the posts in Grade iii of sri 
Lanka Government Librarians' service. the number and 
the effective date of appointments shall be determined 
by the director General of combined services. the 
Appointing Authority shall reserve the right not to fill all 
or certain number of vacancies. 
3.0 Salary.- according to the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, salary segment 
applicable to Grade iii of sri Lanka Government 
Librarians' service is mN-3-2016 and the monthly salary 
scale is Rs. 31,040 -10x445 -11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 
- Rs. 57,550 and you are entitled to the said salary from 
01.01.2020. salaries shall be paid from the effective date 
of the appointment as per the provisions of schedule ii of 
the above circular. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2075
Note.– Incremental benefits shall be granted 
subject to the rules and regulations applied for 
salary increments implemented at the time of 
appointment. 
4.0 this post is permanent and pensionable. 
5.0 Service conditions : 
 (i) An officer appointed to the Grade III of Sri Lanka 
Librarians' service on the results of the Limited  
competitive Examination shall be subjected to 
a period of acting of one year from the date of 
appointment. Such officer shall be confirmed in 
the post if the Appointing Authority is satisfied 
to the effect that his/her work, conduct and 
attendance are satisfactory during the said period 
of acting. However the officer should pass the 
first Efficiency Bar Examination within three 
(03) years from the date of appointment. 
 (ii) The officer shall compulsorily serve at the service 
station to which he/she is appointed at first for 
three years. However, the appointing authority 
reserves the right to transfer any officer before 
the lapse of said period, on special reasons as 
determined by the same, if it is required to make 
such transfer. 
 (iii) The officer is required to obtain the proficiency 
in the prescribed official language before the 
lapse of 05 years from the date of appointment 
as per the Public administration circular No. 
01/2014.
 (iv) this position is permanent and pensionable. 
6.0 Qualifications.– applicants are required to possess 
following qualifications for sitting this examination : 
 6.1 Educational Qualifications :
 (a) shall have passed G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
with six (06) subjects including sinhala/
tamil/English and mathematics with at 
least two credit passes in not more than two 
sittings.
 6.2 Professional Qualifications : 
 (a) Shall have completed the first year of the 
three year diploma in Library science from 
a university recognized by the University 
Grants commission ;
  or
 (b) Shall have successfully completed the first 
year of the three year diploma in Library 
science offered by sri Lanka Library 
association. 
 6.3 experience : 
 (a) Shall have been confirmed in the post of 
Library assistant/Library Employee of 
service category of departmental preliminary 
non skilled (PL-01) in public service and 
completed an active service period of 10 
years in the said post. 
 (b) If the certificate has been obtained by 
completing at least one of the above diploma 
course mentioned in (a) and (b) of 6.2 above, 
it is sufficient for such applicants to have been 
confirmed in the post of library assistant/
library employee of departmental Primary 
Unskilled service category (PL-01) and 
completed an active and satisfactory service 
period of 05 years immediately preceding the 
application closing date. 
  (the maximum age limit shall not be 
applicable in this regard)
Note :
 1. It is compulsory to satisfy all the qualifications 
relevant to the post on or before the application 
closing date. 
 2. Those who have satisfied requirements indicated 
in (a) (b) below as per the para 6.3(a) above 
shall be treated as having become qualified to 
apply for the examination. 
 (a) shall have earned all the salary increments 
falling within the 05 years immediately 
preceding the application closing date. 
 
 (b) shall have not been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishment within 05 years 
immediately preceding the application 
closing date (Except warning). 
 
 3. Every applicant shall be physically and mentally 
fit in every aspect to perform the duties of the 
post and to serve in any part of sri Lanka. 
 4. shall be of excellent character. 
 5. shall have completed a satisfactory period 
of at least 05 years immediately preceding 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2076
the application closing date in a permanent 
appointment of public service as at the 
application closing date and it shall have been 
confirmed by the Head of the Department. 
7.0 Scheme of examination. this examination will 
consist of three question papers. the examination will be 
held in sinhala, tamil and English media and the applicants 
will not be allowed to change the medium of examination 
selected by them. 
   Subjects Marks Duration Pass 
      mark
 (i) Library science 100 03 hrs. 40%
 (ii) intelligence test 100 01 hr. 40%
 (iii) General Knoweldge 100 01 hr.  40%
the syllabus prescribed for the above subjects is as 
follows : 
 7.1  (01)  Library Science : 
  1. Libraries and Librarianship
   Libraries and history of libraries, 
   Role of the members of libraries,
   origin and evolution of the books, 
various documents and non printed 
media,
   organization of professionals : 
    american and birtish Library 
    associations, 
    sri Lanka Library association, 
   t ypes of libraries 
    Libraries in schools and academic 
    institutions
    Libraries in the Government ministries  
    and departments, Public libraries
    Library committees,
    conservation and preservation.  
  2. knowledge and Organization of 
Information
   Classification of books, objectives 
and benefits of the same basic rules of 
classification of books
   Dewey decimal classification
   cataloguing and objectives of 
cataloguing
   anglo-american cataloging Rules - 2 
(aacR)
   Entries and book description 
   t ypes of catalogues. 
  3. Library Resources and Information 
Services 
   Various library resources
   selection of library resources and the 
selection process,
   acquisition and its process, 
   Processing, 
   Stock verification and weeding process. 
  4. Information Communication 
Technology 
   Effects of the computer technology on 
library services. 
  * duration is 03 hours
 7.2 (02)  Intelligence Test : 
   this paper will be designed to assess the 
applicant's capacity for comprehension, 
quantification and perception of time-
space relations by measuring applicant's 
inference and responses to problems 
presented in verbal, numerical and 
spatial context. 
 
   Paper consisting of 50 questions in the 
nature  of multiple choice questions 
and questions for short answers. all the 
questions are compulsory. duration is 01 
hour. 
 7.3 (03)  General Knowledge : 
   this paper will be designed to assess the 
applicants' awareness and understanding 
of social, cultural, educational, political, 
economical and any other relating 
factors operating at national, regional 
and global environment or organizations 
as well as our society and also to assess 
general knowledge of applicants in 
Library Science and library field. 
   Paper consisting of 50 questions in the 
nature  of multiple choice questions 
and questions for short answers. all the 
questions are compulsory. duration is 01 
hour.  
(Question papers for intelligence test and general 
knowledge shall be prepared in relation to field III under 
recruitment examination classification of the Department 
of Examinations.)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2077
applicants should score a minimum of forty percent 
(40%) marks for each paper to become qualified for an 
appointment. appointments will be made strictly following 
the order of merit so as to fill the number of vacancies 
reserved for limited competitive examination.
8.0 examination Fees.- Examination fee is Rs. 600. 
This fee can be paid to any post office or sub post office 
under the head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of examinations. The receipt obtained should be affixed in 
the relevant cage of the application so as not to be detached. 
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt for future 
reference). it is kindly informed that any fee would not 
be charged in addition to the said exam fee. Under no 
circumstances the examination fee will be refunded and 
money orders and stamps are accepted. 
9.0 Applications.- applications should be prepared in 
the following manner using both sides of a paper of size a4 
(21x29cm) (normal halfsheets).
 (a) Cages from 1 to 3.4 should appear on the first 
side of the page.
 (b) cages from 4 onwards should appear on the 
other pages using both sides of the sheet of 
paper and the application should be filled in the 
same language applicant expects to sit for the 
exam. 
 (c) the title of the examination appearing in 
the specimen should be indicated in English 
language as well, on both sinhala and tamil 
application forms. 
 9.1 since applications which are incomplete and not 
prepared in accordance with the specimen form 
included in the notification shall be rejected 
without any notice, applicants shall ensure that 
the application complies with the specimen given 
in the notification, all the particulars included in 
the application are accurate, the examination 
fee has been paid and the details relevant to 
the same have been included in the application 
and the receipt is affixed before submitting the 
application. further, it would be advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the completed application 
form and the receipt relevant to the examination 
fee and the applicants shall be responsible for 
any loss incurred by them due to incomplete 
applications. 
 9.2 all applicants who have paid prescribed 
examination fees on or before the closing date 
of applications and affixed the relevant receipt 
and completed the application accurately shall 
be issued admission cards, by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, on the presumption 
that only those who possess qualifications 
as indicated in the Gazette Notification have 
forwarded their applications. issuance of an 
admission card to a applicant to sit for the 
competitive examination does not mean to 
have accepted that she/he possesses all the 
qualifications to sit for the examination or for 
this post. if it was found at the instant where the 
applicants have been called for the interview for 
verification of qualifications that the applicant 
does not possess the required qualifications, his 
or her candidature shall be cancelled. 
 9.3 the words "Limited Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka 
Government Librarians' Service - 2017" 
should be written on the top left-hand corner of 
the envelope in which the application is enclosed. 
 9.4 examination Results.- the results sheet prepared 
on the order of aggregate of marks of the 
applicants who secure not less than 40% for each 
subject as per Para. 7.3 of this notification shall be 
submitted to the director General of combined 
services, ministry of Public administration 
and management. action shall be taken by the 
department of Examinations to send the results 
to all the applicants personally or publish the 
results in the website of the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka www.results.exams.
gov.lk.
10.0 applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post through the Head of the department to reach 
the following address on or before 16th october, 2017 and 
the applicants are requested to submit their applications to 
the Heads of department in advance : 
commissioner General of Examinations,
 organization and overseas Examinations branch,
department of Examinations, sri Lanka, 
 P. o. box 1503, colombo.
11.0 Appearing for the examination.-  A notification 
will be published in the newspapers by the sri Lanka 
Examination department as soon as the admission cards are 
issued to the applicants. if the admission card is not received 
even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the organization and overseas 
Examinations branch department of Examinations, in 
the manner specified in the advertisement. When making 
such notice the name of the examination, full name of 
the applicant, national identity card number and address 
shall be indicated accurately. in case of applicants outside 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2078
colombo, it would be advisable to send a letter of request 
including the said details indicating a fax number to which 
a copy of the admission card can be obtained promptly 
to the fax number mentioned in the advertisement. it 
would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the 
time of calling in order to prove any detail inquired by the 
department of Examinations : i. e. copies of the application 
form kept at your possession, the receipt obtained for the 
payment of the examination fee and receipt of registration 
of the application. 
12.0 the Head of department should be prepared to 
release the officer if he/she is selected for an appointment. 
The Head of Department shall issue a certificate 
attached at the end of the application. further, Heads of 
departments shall approve duty leave for applicants who 
have been issued admission cards for the examination by 
the commissioner General of Examinations, travelling 
expenses shall not be paid. 
 12.1 Certifying the signature.– the signature of the 
applicant in the application and the admission 
card for the examination shall have been attested 
by the Head of department or an authorized staff 
officer. 
 12.2 Every applicant should furnish the admission 
card in which his/her signature has been attested 
to the supervisor of the examination on the first 
day on which he/she sit for the examination. 
13.0 applicants should furnish only one of the following 
documents to the supervisor of the examination to prove 
their identity :-
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department for Registration of Persons, 
 (ii) a  valid passport. 
14.0 Penalty for Furnishing False Information.- 
the applicant should be very careful to include correct 
particulars in the application. if it is found that any applicant 
is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this 
examination, his/her candidature can be cancelled at any 
time before during or after the examination. further, if it 
is found that any information furnished by an applicant is 
false, he/she is liable to dismissal from the Public service 
at any time.
15.0 applicants shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for the purpose of conducting examinations 
and issuing results. the rules imposed for the applicants 
are printed separately in the Gazette notification. They are 
liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for violation of 
these rules and regulations. 
16.0 This examination notification will be published in 
sinhala, tamil and English languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the sinhala text shall prevail. 
any matter not referred to herein shall be determined by the 
director General of combined services. all the applicants 
shall be bound to act in accordance with the common rules 
and regulations indicated in this Gazette notification. 
 K. V . P. m. J. 
gamage,
 director General of combined services,
 ministry of Public administration and management. 
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence square, 
colombo 07,
31st of august, 2017. 
Specimen Application form 
LimitEd comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR REcRUitmENt to GRadE iii of sRi LaNKa 
GoVERNmENt LibRaRiaNs' sERVicE - 2017
(For office use only)
Language medium  : 
 sinhala - 2
 t amil - 3
 English - 4
 (indicate the relevant number clearly in the relevant cage)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2079
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
  eg. : GUNaWaRdHaNa, m. G. b. s. K.
 1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals)  :––––––––––––.
 1.3 Name in full (in sinhala/tamil)  :––––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Name and address of Office/Department/Institution (In English block capitals)  :––––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and address of Office/Department/Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil)  :––––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in English block capitals)  :––––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 sex : female  - 1
    male  - 0   
  (indicate relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 National identity card No. : 
 3.3 date of birth :  date month year
 3.4 t elephone Number : 
4.0  Particulars of the Service : 
 4.1 Name of the department where the applicant serves at present :––––––––––––.
 4.2 designation of the Present Post :––––––––––––.
 4.3 date of appointment to the present post :––––––––––––.
 4.4 Whethe r you have been confirmed in the present post :––––––––––––.
 4.5 If confirmed, the date of eligibility for confirmation :––––––––––––.
 4.6 Reference No. and date of the letter of confirmation in the present post :––––––––––––.
5.0  Educational Qualifications  :
  Particulars of three year Diploma course of which the first year has been passed by the applicant to be eligible to sit 
for this examination as per Para 6.2(a) and (b) of the examination notification. 
 (i) University/institute :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) diploma :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) Year in which the applicant passed the first year of the course :–––––––––––––.
6.0  Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee : 
 (i) Post Office/Sub Post Office to which the payment has been made :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) amount pai d :–––––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
7.0  Applicant's Certificate :
 (i) i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i agree to suffer any loss that may be caused as a result of any information not being completed 
and/or any information erroneously being included here. i also state that all sections herein have been correctly 
filled. 
 (ii) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to be disqualified before 
appointment and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2080
 (iii) i hereby agree to abide by all the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
for the purpose of holding this examination. 
 (iv) i do not change any information mentioned herein later.  
  ––––––––––––––––,
  signature of applicant. 
  (in the presence of the Head of department)
date :–––––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant's Signature 
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss .................................. who submits this application is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ................................. and further the officer has paid the 
prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the application. 
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting the signature. 
date :–––––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting 
the signature :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
Certification by the Head of the Department 
i certify that, 
 (i) mr./mrs./ms ......................................... the applicant, is presently employed in this department. 
 (ii) He/She has been confirmed in the post of Library Assistant/Library Attendant and has completed a 10 
years of active period of service on or before the closing date of applications,
 (iii) A letter has been issued to him/her confirming in the post of Library Assistant/Library Attendant,
 (iv) He/She has completed at least a five years of satisfactory period of service immediately preceding the 
closing date of applications,
 (v) He/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment within the period of five years immediately 
preceding the closing date of applications and his/her work and conduct are satisfactory,
 (vi) He/She has earned all the salary increments falling within the five years immediately preceding the 
closing date of applications, 
 (vii) He/she can be released from the present post if selected for a post on the result of the examination,
 (viii) the particulars indicated in his/her application have been compared with the documents of the 
department and found to be correct and further he/she is eligible to sit for the examination according to 
the regulations of the examination notification. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Department and Official Stamp. 
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'15
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.09.2017
2081
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.
Note :                      
 * The signature should be certified only by the Head of the Department or an authorized staff officer. 
The officer, who certifies, should be satisfied each and every way with the accuracy of information 
provided.
 * the applications of those who do not meet the eligibility criteria shall not be submitted to the 
commissioner General of Examinations. 
09-422
––––––––––––––––––––
hEALTh SERvICE COmmITTEE Of ThE PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
ministry of health, Nutrition and Indigenous medicine
REcRUitmENt to tHE Post of PRimaRy GRadE mEdicaL officER iN sRi LaNKa ayURVEda 
mEdicaL sERVicE - 2017
WitH reference to the notice published in the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka Gazette No. 2,027 dated 07th 
July 2017, related to the recruitment of Primary Grade Medical Officers of the Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service. 
02. The closing date of accepting applications for recruiting to the post of primary Grade Medical Officer of 
Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Service is extended until 29th September 2017 and also the qualifications mentioned in the 
above Gazette should be satisfied by 15th September 2017. 
03. the other matters mentioned in the said notice of recruitment remain unchanged. 
by order of Health service committee of the Public service commission, 
 
Janaka sugaThaDasa, 
 secretary, 
 ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine. 
"suwasiripaya", 
No. 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, 
colombo 10, 
sri Lanka,
06th september, 2017. 
09–514