

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
797
wxl 1"723 - 2011 iema;eïn¾ ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'09'09
No. 1,723  – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 09, 2011
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Statements of Revenue & Expenditure ... —
Budgets ... – –
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacants ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 798
By-Laws ... ––
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
797
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th September, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd
September, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
N.B.— Tamil version of this Gazette is printed separately.
N.B.—  National Police Academy Bill is pubilshed as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka of 19th August, 2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
798
Local Government Notifications
ARANAYAKE  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
The notice declared under the Act, No. 15 and Article of 14
and 24(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha of 1987
THE notice declared according to the Act, No. 15 and Article of 24 of
Pradeshiya Sabha roads, mentioned in the Schedule below by
Aranayake Pradeshiya Sabha in the Kegalle District in the Province
of Sabaragamuwa, belongs to the Aranayake Pradeshiya Sabha in the
Kegalle District in the Sabaragamuwa Province.
It is hereby notified that if there is any objections against the land
surveyed and marked for the road by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the so
called land owners who oppose are hereby announced to prove their
ownership according to the Act, No. 15 and Article of 24(2) of
Pradeshiya Sabha within one month from this notice.
R. D
INESH GUNARA THNA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Aranayake.
At Pradeshiya Sabha Office,
Aranayake,
18th August, 2011.
Name of the road : The road from Apalagoda to
Loolelpitiya Road.
Start and the end of the road : From the Aranayaka Apalagoda Road
and starts the land of
Ankereppuwahena Udamankada
Wattha ends at Loolelpitiya land.
Grama Niladari Division : No. 42D, Pannala.
Length of road : 479m Width : 08.
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the left of the
road from the start to the end :
1. Mr. P . R. Ariyarathna Ankereppuwahena
2. Mr. P.  D. Gunasena Ankereppuwahena
3. Mr. P. P . D. Nandana Jayathissa Ankereppuwahena
4. Mr. W. W. Wijepala Ankereppuwahena
5. Mr. W. W. Ariyawansa Ankereppuwahena
6. Mr. C. Gangoda Kahatunuwa
7. Mr. W. W. Chanaka Loolelpitiya
8. Mrs. T. P. Karunawathi Mayilagahamulahena
9. Mr. T. L. Asoka Kudugalahena
10. Mr. S. D. Piyasena Kudugalahena
11. Mr. P . D. Upasena Kudugalahena
12. Mr. Sisira Udaya Kumara Kudugalahena
13. Mr. S. D. Ariyadasa Kudugalahena
14. Mr. P . D. Sisira Udaya Kumara Kudugalahena
15. Mr. W. W. Saimonsingno Pallewathehena
16. Mrs. T. P. Karunawathi Loolelpitiya
17. Mr. P . L. Asoka Chandrasena Loolelpitiya
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the right of the
road from the start to the end :
1. Mr. P. O. Dharmasena Udamankadawattha
2. Mrs. P. D. Chandrawathi Batalandehena
3. Mrs. P. D. Chandrani Mallika Batalandehena
Mrs. P. D. Seetha Kanthilatha Batalandehena
Mrs. P. D. Manel Swarnalatha Batalandehena
4. Mr. K. P . Jayaweera Kahatunuwa
5. Mr. P . L. Asoka Gamini Loolelpitiya
6. Mr. W. W. Gamini Amarawansa Batalandehena
7. Mr. S. D. Thilakarathna Batalandehena
8. Mr. W. W. Simonsingno Pallewatthehena
9. Mr. S. P . D. Ariyarathna Loolelpitiya
In accordance with the Plan No. 7367 dated 23.04.2011 of the
authorized Surveyor H. M. R. T. K. Herath.
Name of the road : Udagama Ahaspokuna Road
Start and the end of the road : The road starts from nearby
Udagama Adiyakotuwa to
Ahaspokuna Bodhiya.
Grama Niladari Division : No. 43E, Udagama.
Length of road : 235m Width : 10.
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the left of the
road from the start to the end :
1. Mrs. Anula Samarasekara Pahalawatthehena
2. Mrs. H. A. Somawathi Uda Arambehena
3. Mr. W. S. P. K. Wickramasinghe Uda Arambe Hitanawattha
Names of the lands and their owners that lies to the right of the
road from the start to the end :
1. Mrs. Anula Samarasekara Pahalawatthehena
2. Mr. U. L. Gam ini Kulathunga Uda Arambehena
3. Mr. W. S. P. K. Wickramasinghe Uda Arambe Hitanawattha
4. Mr. H. A. Anada Senevirathna Amuhena
In accordance with the Plan No. 7366 dated 23.04.2011 of the
authorized Surveyor H. M. R. T. K. Herath.
09–327/1
––––––––––––––––
ARANAYAKE  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
THE notice published in Gazette of People's Republic of Sri Lanka
dated on 20.05.2011 No. 1,707 in the section 4 regarding the roads in
the Scheduled below are own by the Pradeshiya Sabha - Aranayake

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
799
are entrusted by the Act, No. 15 and Article of 24(3)(1) of 1987 of
Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
R. DINESH GUNARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Aranayaka.
At Pradeshiya Sabha Office,
Aranayaka,
18th August, 2011.
1. Name of the road : Ambalakanda town up to
Udakotuwa
Start and the end of the road : From Ambalakanda town up to
Udakotuwa
Gramaniladari Division : No. 43-A, Ambalakanda
Length of road : 175m Width 06 feet
2. Name of road : The road from Gavilipitiya
Debathgama main road to
Gedarawaththa
Start and the end of the road : The road commences from nearby
Pitakotuwa at Gevilipitiya
Debathgame Road and end at
Gedearawaththa land.
Gramaniladari Division : No. 47-B, Debathgama Udabage
Length of road : 190m Width 08 feet.
09–327/2
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA,  RAMBUKKANA
Section 24 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
IT is hereby notified that the lands, length and width mentioned in
forward, belongs to the Sabha on the written consent of the landlords
of the lands related to a thoroughfare situated within the area of
Rambukkana Pradeshiya  Sabha, according to the resolution that
passed by the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana in the Kegalle District
at its general meeting held on 28.06.2011.
People of the area have the right to send me in writing (in
duplicate) mentioning any reason why they oppose to widen those
roads within 30 days, from the date published this notification in
the Gazette. If any objection is not received within that period, it is
father notified that those roads, length and width mentioned in
forward  are ruled by the Pradeshiya Sabha considering that those
roads are a property of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
E. M. A. N. B. H
ANDAGAMA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana.
DESCRIPTION OF THE ROAD
Length : 254 feet
Width : 10 feet
Grama Niladhari Division : 08 F - Kiriwallapitiya
The name of the road : Boraluwa - Baduwatta Road
Beginning : Bo raluwa
End : Boraluwa
On the left side: The road beginning from Boraluwa village and
bounded by the lands called Baduwatta belongs to S. T. S. Kumara,
S. A. N. M. Samaraweera, T. D. G . Nimal Gunarathna, A. A .Chatura
Priyankara and L. Sisira Upanayaka,
On the right side: Boraluwa - Baduwatta Road bounded by the
land called Baduwatta belongs to N. A. A. Nissanka, P. V . Muthu
Banda, J. M. H. Jayawardana and M. R. Punchi Banda.
09–326/2
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA, RAMBUKKANA
Section 24 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
IT is hereby notified that the lands, length and width mentioned in
forward, belongs to the Sabha on the written consent of the landlords
of the lands related to a thoroughfare situated within the area of
Rambukkana Pradeshiya  Sabha, according to the resolution that
passed by the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana in the Kegalle District
at its general meeting held on 26.07.2011.
People of the area have the right to send me in writing (in
duplicate) mentioning any reason why they oppose to widen those
roads within 30 days, from the date published this notification in
the Gazette. If any objection is not received within that period, it is
father notified that those roads, length and width mentioned in
forward  are ruled by the Pradeshiya Sabha considering that those
roads are a property of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
E. M. A. N. B. H
ANDAGAMA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana.
DESCRIPTION OF THE ROAD
Length : 500 feet
Width : 12 feet
Grama Niladhari Division : No. 02, Udagaladeniya
The name of the road : W atahapotha - Kotapugalagawawatta
Road across Udagaladeniya
On the left side: Bounded by the lands of Thelambugahamada
that located Grama Niladhari official residence and owned by the
Divisional Secretary, the boundary of Thelambugahamada land that
located Walagamba Maha Vidyalaya and the land Thelambugahamada

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'09'09
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.09.2011
800
Deniya Watahapotha Kotapugalagawahena and Watahapotha
Kotapugalagawawatta belong to S. M. Karunathilaka Bandara,
P. G. Fonseka and S. M. Upathissa Senasingha.
On the right side: Watahapotha Kotapugalaga road which
bounded by the land Nagahamulahena, belongs to S. M.
Karunarathna, Makullagahamulahena belongs to T. A. K. Senarath
Bandara and Watahapotha Kotapugalagawahena and Watahapotha
Kotapugalagawawatta belongs to P. G . Fonseka.
09–326/1
–––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA, RAMBUKKANA
Section 24 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
IT is hereby notified that the lands, length and width mentioned in
forward, belongs to the Sabha on the written consent of the landlords
of the lands related to a thoroughfare situated within the area of
Rambukkana Pradeshiya  Sabha, according to the resolution that
passed by the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana in the Kegalle District
at its general meeting held on 31.05.2011.
People of the area have the right to send me in writing
(in duplicate) mentioning any reason why they oppose to widen
those roads within 30 days, from the date published this notification
in the Gazette. If any objection is not received within that period, it
is father notified that those roads, length and width mentioned in
forward  are ruled by the Pradeshiya Sabha considering that those
roads are a property of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
E. M. A. N. B. H
ANDAGAMA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana.
DESCRIPTION OF THE ROAD
Length : 280 feet
Width : 10 feet
Grama Niladhari Division : Godagandeniya
The name of the road : Bogahalanda Road
Beginning : Godagandeniya Gutter
End : Godagandeniya
On the left side: Beginning from the Godagandeniya Gutter and
bounded by the lands called Peellagawawatta and Peellagawahena
belongs to E. P. S. Tikiri Kumarai, K. P. Tissa Wijerathna, D. G .
Kiri Mahaththaya and B. G. Prayantha Gregori Senevirathna.
On the right side: Godagandeniya - Bogahalanda Road bounded
by the land Peellagawawatta and Pellagawahena belongs to E. G .
Heen Menike and E. G. M. Upali Karunarathna.
09–326/3
POINT   PEDRO  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Licencing of Club Law, No. 17 of 1975 and amendment of Act, No. 38 of 1987
NOTICE is hereby given under section 6(c1) of Licensing of Club Law, No. 17 of 1975 and amendment of Act, No. 38 of 1987 that t he
persons mentioned in the Schedule hereunder have made applications to me for carrying on clubs in the premises stated against their names
in the aforesaid Schedule during the year, 2011.
Any persons residing in the neighbourhood of the said clubs or in the neighbourhood of the premises intended for the said clubs
who desires object to the issue of such licence should furnish me in duplicate within four weeks of the date of the notice a written statement
of the grounds of their objection for their issue of the licence.
S. JEY A V ASEEKARAN,
Secretary,
Point Pedro Pradeshiya Sabha,
Puloly.
Point Pedro Pradeshiya Sabha,
Puloly,
16th August, 2011.
THE SCHEDULE
Name and Address State whether President/Secretary Name of Clubs Place where the clubs
or Manager of the Clubs proposed conduct its Activities
Kiddinan Sivapirakasam, Koovil, Secretary Thampasiddy Mayakkai, Thampasiddy,
Puloly South, Puloly Royal Club Puloly East, Puloly
09–329
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.