

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2008
915
915
wxl 1"561 _ 2008 wf.daia;= 01 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'08'01
No. 1,561 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 01, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 918
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 919
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th August, 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 25th July, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2008
916
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2008
917
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2008
918
Posts - Vacant
SRI  LANKA  EXCISE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Excise Driver Grade - II (Motor Vehicle)
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka with the
qualification stipulated here under for the post of excise drivers-
Grade II (motor vehicle) in the Excise Department.
2. Specimen application form which is given here under should
be completed and sent under registered post to the address of
“Commissioner General of excise” Sri Lanka excise Department,
No. 28, staple Street, Colombo 2. On or before 28.08.2008 and the
words “Excise driver-motor vehicle” should be written on the top
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application clearly.
The application received after the prescribed date will be rejected
and will not acknowledge about the received applications.
3. The Salary scale: Grade II
Rs. 13,580-10x120-Rs. 14,780 per month appointee are required
to pass the efficiency bar examination, before the 4th salary step.
4.  Age limit.– Should not less than 18 years or not more than 45
years. The maximum age limit will not apply to persons already in
public service/provincial public service.
5. Education and other qualification:
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should be passed Grade-8/Grade-9 in a school which was
approved by the director general of education.
(iii) The appointee must have atleast 3 years driving experience
with the present valid driving licence. (copy should be
annexed)
(iv) Application should be good charactor, (Detail report will
be collect from the national information center/Area police/
Excise stations.)
(v) Appointee should physically sound to work any part of
the Island in the day or night with good eye sight.
(vi) Height: Minimum height-5.4"
Chest Measurement (unexpanded)-32"
(vii) He should have vast knowledge on traffic ordinance and
technical knowledge about motor buses, motor coach and A
grade heavy vehicle. (valid certificate issued by the
commissioner of motor traffic regarding heavy vehicle
driving.
6. Scheme of selection .– The candidates who are qualified in
sections 4 and 5, will be called for a interview and will testify the
certificates/licence/technical knowledge and the qualified candidates
from interview will be called for a practical test. The police report/
excise report will be called for the qualified candidate from practical
test. After received of these reports recruitment will be done to the
post of excise driver-Grade-II (motor vehicle), according to the
existing vacancies. Recruitment in government will be done
accordance with government policy and condition laid down. The
selected candidates should follow a residential training programme
about the duties of the excise department.
7. Condition of service.– This is permanent and personable post
and should contribute to the widows and orphans pension scheme
from their salary and this post is administrating by the departmental
orders and should wear the uniform.
8. The Application should annexed the following certificates.
(photo copies) not originals with application:
(i) Birth certificate;
(ii) Recent character certificate from two referees and one
should be from the Grama Sevaka/Divisional secretory of
the permanent residence area of the applicant;
(iii) Educational qualification;
(iv) Copy of the motor vehicle driving licence issued by
commissioner of motor vehicle;
(v) Special qualification;
9. The interview will be notify by a letter to the applicant and
no travelling will be paid.
D. G . M. V . H
APUARACHI,
Excise Commissioner General.
7th July, 2008.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
POST OF MOTOR VEHICLE DRIVER GRADE II IN THE SRI LANKA
EXERCISE DEPARTMENT
01. (a) Name in Full:–––––––––.
(b) Name with Initials:–––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No.:–––––––––.
03. Present Address:
(a) Permanent Address:–––––––––.
(b) Police Station:–––––––––.
04. Are you a citizen of Sri Lankan or by Registration
(if so annexed a copy of registration)
05. Married/Unmarried:––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth: Year:–––––,    Month:––––,      Date:––––.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2008
919
07. Age as at the closing date of application:
Year:–––––––.      Month:––––––.           Days:–––––––.
(annexed copy of the birth certificate)
08. Education Qualification (Copy of Education Qualification
Certificate)
09. (i) Give particulars about your experience vide section III of
para 5 of the Gazette Notification.
(ii) Give particulars about your relevant certificate vide
section VII of para 5 of the Gazette Notification.
(annexed copy of the certificate)
10. Name and designation and address of two referees from whom
the information can be obtain about the application.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
11. If employed previously of a Government or Provincial Public
Service give detail and reasons for resignation from service.
12. Present designation and official address.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application and true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
I am also aware that I am liable to do disqualified without any
compensation, after the appointment, if this declaration is proved
to be in correct.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date:–––––––––.
08-29
FIRST  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  CLASS III  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
EDUCATIONAL   ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
officers in Class III in the Sri Lanka Educational Administrative
Service will be held in December 2008, in Colombo.
02. The Syllabus and other provisions relating to this
Examination have been published in the Gazette Extra Ordinary of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing
No. 1,225/32 dated 01.03.2002. The Syllabus and other provisions
are indicated below for convenience.
Examination Procedure:
(a) The First Efficiency Bar Examination will Consist of the
following subjects:
Subject Number 001 General Administration -
Constitution of Sri Lanka,
Provisions of the
Establishment Code and other
Regulations of the
Government.
Subject Number 002 Finance
Subject Number 003 Education, Education law,
Administration and
Supervision
(b) An officer may take up the subjects of the 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination on one and the same occasion or on  separate
occasions.
(c) Each paper will be of 3 hours duration.
03. Syllabus of Examination :
(a) General Administration–
The Ceylon (a) (Constitution and independence); Orders in
Council, 1946 and 1947 (Chapter 379) The Cititizenship
Act, No. 18 of 1948 (Chap. 349) The constitution adopted
and enacted on 22nd May 1972, Registration of Elections
Act, No. 44 of 1980; Parliamentary Elections Act No. 19 of
1981; Referendum Act, No. 07 of 1981; Presidential Elections
Act, No. 15 of 1981; The Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(b) Office and Field Organisation and Methods  .- The
Establishment Code and other Government Regulations -
Chapters I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, IX, X, XI, XVI,  XXV ,
XXVI, XXVII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII,
XLVIII
(II) Finance
(a) The Financial Regulation of the Government Part 1; (Except
Chapter I)
(b) The Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure of the current
year e.g. their arrangements; The Head of Revenue, Finance
and Appropriation, Acts;
(c) Ordinances and other Legislation relating to Specific
Accounts dealt with in Education offices.
(III) Education, Education Law, Administration and Supervision
(a) Education Law  - Candidates are excepted to be familiar
with following Ordinances and Acts of Parliament -
Education Ordinance No. 31 of 1939
Amendment Ordinance No. 26 of 1947
Amendment Act, No. 05 of 1951

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2008
920
Amendment Act, No. 43 of 1953
Code of Regulations for Government Schools
Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 05 of 1960
Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Supplementary
Provisions) Act, No. 08 of 1961,
Education (Change of Designations) Act, No. 35 of 1973
Pirivena Act, No. 64 of 1979
The Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 1981
National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985
(b) Educational Administration -
1. Policies of the Ministry of Education
(i) Ministry of Education,
(ii) The Organization of the Ministry of Education and
Development and Agencies under the Ministry including
District Education Departments and their functions,
(iii) Educational Planning at National and Regional levels;
Aims and Objectives, methods (including school
mapping) implementation etc,
2. School Management, School community relationship.
3. Educational Management information Systems.
4. Special Education Programmes.
(c) Education supervision  —
Scheme for school supervision and criteria used in evaluation
of teacher performance.
Continuous evaluation programmes in schools, Self
evaluation programmes in schools.
School Supervision by the District Departments and the
Ministry of Education
Validation of Internal Evaluation by External by teams;
(Candidates are advised to be through with the Circulars
Manuals and other Publication issued by the Ministry of
Education)
Reference —
Asian Institute of Educational Planning and Administration
(1970)
Modern Management Techniques in Educational Administration.
A Report of a Seminar - New Delhi
Barry and Tye (1975) Running a School - Temple Smith Londan
Bush T. Glatter, R Gooday, I. Riches, C. (eds. 1980) Approaches
to School Management, Harper and Row.
Khan Dr. Mohideen Sheriff (1989) School Administration, New
Delhi.
Ministry of Education - Ceylon (1969) Education in Ceylon.
A Centenary Volume Part II, Part III Ministry of Education and
Cultural Affairs, Ceylon.
Open University (1981) Policy Making, Organisation and
Leadership in Schools (Block 4 of Course E 323)
Open University Press Londan
Shipman, Morten (1983) In School Evaluation, Heineman
Education Books.
Report on the Management Reforms in the Ministry of
Education, July, 1984
04. Candidates should obtain 40% the total marks allocate for each
subject for a pass.
05. Language medium of the Examination
(i) Candidates can answer the question papers in any one of
the official Languages
(ii) In the language medium of the Competitive Examination he
passed to enter the public service, if there was no
competitive examination, language medium of qualifying
examination to enter public service.
06. If it is detected that a candidate has sat for the examination in a
language medium, for which he is not entitled his/her candidature
will be cancelled, It will not be allowed to change the language
medium applied for, at a later stage.
07. Application should be prepared and submitted by using a A4
size paper in conformity with the specimen form indicated below.
(Items 01 to 06 should appear in the first page and the remaining
items should appear in the second page) In the Sinhala application
the name of the examination should be indicated in English in addition
to Sinhala and in the Tamil application it should be indicated in
English in addition to Tamil. Information in the application should
be clearly written in candidate’s own handwriting. Applications
which are not in conformity with the specimen form and those
which are incomplete will be rejected without any information. It is
advisable to keep a photo copy of the application with the candidate.
Candidates should be vigilant as a whether the duly completed
application is in conformity with the specimen form and it should
be noted that the application will be rejected if it is not so.
08. The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examination and the candidates are bound by the rules prescribe
by him for conducting examinations. These rules are indicated at
the end of this notification.
09.  Applications should be forwarded under registered post through
Heads of Departments addressed to the Commissioner General of
the Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, to be received on or
before 01.09.2008. Name of the Examinations should be written on
the top left hand corner of the envelope. Any application received
after this date will be rejected.
10. If admission cards are not received at least seven days before
the date of Examination, candidates should contact the
Commissioner General of Department of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta Battaramulla.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2008
921
Telegraphic address is “Exams” Battaramulla. Following
information should be supplied while informing that the admission
cards are not received immediately after the issue of admission
cards to the candidates a newspaper notification to that effect will
be published by the Department of Examinations. If the admission
cards are not received even after or 3 days of the publication of the
newspaper notice it should be notified to the Department of
Examinations. It is truitful to keep a certified photo copy of the
application and the registration receipt with the candidate and to
notify the Department of Examinations with a Fax No. for sending
the admission card.
(i) Name of examinations;
(ii) Full name of candidate;
(iii) Candidates address in full;
(iv) Date of posting the application, registered letter number
and Post Office;
Applicants residing close by can contact the Commissioner
General Examinations (E) Branch through a messenger.
11. Complaints from candidates who fail to fulfill the requirements
indicated in para. 9 above will not be considered.
12. At the examination hall it is the responsibility of the candidates
to produce evidence in proof of their Identity and for this purpose
only the identity card issued by the Department of Registration of
persons and a valid passport will accepted.
13. Fees for examinations will be charged as follows:
(a) First instance (fees will not be levied for the whole
examination or part of it)
(b) Thereafter, for each instance.
For the whole examination Rs. 225.00
For one subject Rs. 75.00
14. It should not be treated that the issue of an admission card is an
acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to appear for
the examination.
Candidates should pay the fees by revenue stamps which are
duly cancelled by placing their signature on it.
M. M. N. D. B
ANDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
09th July, 2008,
Application Form
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS
IN CLASS III SRI LANKA EDUCATIONAL
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
(To be forwarded to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla under registered post through the Head of
the Department)
Medium appearing for the examination:- Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(Relevant number to written within cage)
(Name of examination should be written on the top left corner in
the envelope)
01. (a) Name with initials with initials at the end (English capital
letters) : ———————.
Example : SILV A, S. A.
(b) Names denoted by initial (English capital letters) : —–—.
02. Address:
(i) Official Address : ————————.
(ii) Private Address : ————————.
(iii) Address for dispatch of Admission Card (English capital
letters) : ——————.
03. Subjects offered with subject numbers as indicated in para.
02(a) in the Notification to be written clearly.
Subject Number Subject : ——————.
Subject Number Subject : ——————.
Subject Number Subject : ——————.
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Date of birth :
06. (i) Designation : ——————.
(ii) Department/Zonal Education Office/Division/School: —.
07. State whether you have sat this examination previously, in
whole or in part and if so state year, subjects and media appeared.
Year Subject Media
———— ———— ————
———— ———— ————
———— ———— ————
08. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true
and correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the
medium indicated in para. 06 above. I also agree to abide by all the
rules and regulations of the examination. I also declare that I will be
subject to the rules and regulations to be imposed relating to this
examination by the Commissioner General of Examinations.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2008
922
09. The amount of examinations fees paid:
Stamps to be affixed here and to be cancelled by signing on it
Date: ————.
—–––———,
Signature of Candidate.
Commissioner General of Examinations
Submitted.
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear as above is
eligible to sit this examination and that he/she is entitled to sit in the
language medium indicated by him/her in Para 6.
I mention further that the stamp/Stamps was/were duly cancelled
by the candidate (*)
—–––———,
Signature and Designation of the
Head of Department and Official Frank.
Date : ————.
(*) to be deleted when fees are paid.
08-57

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2008
923
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday )
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments
to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 5 1 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8 , as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 31 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05. who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'08'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.08.2008
924
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The  Government  Printer  does  not accept payments of subscription for the Government  Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month D ate of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2008
AUGUST 01.08.2008 Friday — 18.07.2008 Friday 12 noon
08.08.2008 Friday –– 25.07.2008 Friday 12 noon
15.08.2008 Friday –– 01.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
22.08.2008 Friday –– 08.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
29.08.2008 Friday –– 15.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 05.09.2008 Friday — 22.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
12.09.2008 Friday –– 29.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
19.09.2008 Friday –– 05.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
26.09.2008 Friday –– 12.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
OCTOBER 03.10.2008 Friday — 19.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
10.10.2008 Friday –– 26.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
17.10.2008 Friday –– 03.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
24.10.2008 Friday –– 10.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
31.10.2008 Friday — 17.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.